ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to which the Administrative Committee, the Defence Committee and the Future Committee must deliver an opinion. After the presentation by the Government, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 7 minutes and other pre-arranged speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes, and I would urge you to stick to these deadlines. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Then let's move on to the conversation. Minister Soini, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u2	Madam President! The Government has made yet another commitment by giving Parliament a report now before us. The report has been prepared in good cooperation between the President of the Republic and the Government's Committee on Foreign and Security Policy. The government's making political decisions. The Foreign and Security Policy Report openly assesses the development of our operating environment and sets priorities for future years. The parliamentary contribution to the preparation of the report has been important and more intensive. In this context, I would like to thank the presidency and the members of the monitoring group for their good cooperation. The Government's policy covers the whole area of foreign and security policy. However, the report has been considered strategic. The basic message of the report is: our security environment has changed, and Finland needs to intensify international cooperation with our partners. Mr President! The report has been completed within the agreed time frame. There have been various public inquiries in this respect. There have also been questions here in Parliament as to why the report was not postponed until the autumn. It has been stressed in particular that we should have waited for the outcome of the British referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, it is just that, in this time, only change will be permanent. That is why the government has not wanted — or could — to wait for this or that event until the report is made. Our operating environment will not remain unchanged after the British EU referendum or, for example, after the US presidential election. Samuel Beckett’s play “Waiting for Godot”, “Waiting for Godot”, is an example of what happens if you wait. Moreover, if the Brexit were to happen, which it would not be good for the responsible government to speculate in advance, it would not be possible to find out by postponing one report. This requires wide-ranging and deep reflection from the government and from Europe as a whole on the future of Europe. This process will take years. It is the government's duty to assess the change in the security environment and to set the key objectives for our nation on the basis of it. That is what we have done. The guidelines and the key framework are clear. They can handle a bigger speaker. If necessary, the Government will review the development and situation of the environment and make possible new guidelines from the perspective of Finland’s national interests. Mr President! Our operating environment is in a fast and, in many respects, unpredictable change: the migration crisis is continuing; the EU's economic crisis is not over; There have been terrorist attacks in Europe; possible brexes and its effects; The internal development and solidarity of the European Union is being tested by these many overlapping crises; the prospects for development in the Middle East and Africa remain worrying; climate change and demographic development require effective global action. However, a key change in the security situation in Europe is Russia's illegal takeover of Crimea and its actions in Eastern Ukraine. European values and the European security system have been challenged. The situation in the Baltic Sea region is tense. The Government emphasises that, in the current situation, Finland does not want and cannot isolate itself from its own corner. We're active security producers. We want to maintain and promote rule-based order in the neighbourhood as well as globally. The Finnish line has long been that, from our point of view, the EU mutual assistance clause has a strong security policy significance. This clause requires the Member States to be prepared to provide concrete assistance. Finland is not external or impartial in terms of assistance or obligations. We are a solid part of the Nordic and European community. The Government has set 15 priorities for Finland's foreign and security policy. Of course, the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs handle many other matters, but these are specifically addressed. This will strengthen Finland’s security more effectively and contribute to the well-being of people. We have, and must continue to have, a strong and competent foreign service in the implementation of foreign and security policy and diplomacy. Anticipating situations and threats and preparing and influencing them in advance are a key part of our policy. But we must now also be prepared for various threats. This does not mean that we are maintaining threats — let alone stirring up conflicts. On the contrary, stability and the strengthening of security require that our policy is clear in advance and that our strong defence capability is known to others. That is why we must have a strong defence policy and a national defence capability. Bilateral and multilateral defence cooperation is an important part of maintaining, developing and preventing this capability. Part of the cooperation is international training activities. The defence report, which will be completed at the end of the year, will give concrete expression to the guidelines defined in this report. As the threat images change and the complicated report highlights the link between external and internal security. Some time ago, the government gave Parliament a report on internal security. In accordance with this report, Finland is also preparing for the international activities and consequences of non-state actors in its international cooperation. Similarly, we prepare for different forms of hybrid influence and improve our capabilities. As citizens, we must also strengthen our own resilience to new threats. Mr President! A few comments on the government's priorities. The main idea for the government is to deepen cooperation. We don't want to isolate ourselves, and we can't. Finland supports the strengthening of the EU as a security community built on cooperation between Member States. It involves ensuring both internal and external security, inter alia, in order to identify and combat hybrid effects. Finland will create the capacity to implement the obligations under the EU mutual assistance clause and to provide and receive international assistance. We have presented Parliament with a proposal on this earlier this spring. Sweden has a special role to play in Finland's bilateral cooperation. That is why we are deepening foreign and security policy and defence cooperation with Sweden on the basis of common interests, without restrictions. During the weekend, public opinion has been given the impression that we would have some kind of conflict here with Sweden. That is not the case. Cooperation is carried out at a very concrete level and no single end point has been defined. Cooperation is not based on a comprehensive agreement, but on political judgement. The objectives are based on common interests. At the moment, there are many interests. Så enkelt är det! This cooperation was discussed and we fully agreed with my colleague Margot Wallström just yesterday in Luxembourg. Mr President! Finland and the United States deepen their cooperation on many international issues. The commitment of the United States to NATO and military investment in Europe is important for our security. In its relations with Russia, Finland builds cooperation and maintains dialogue on the international situation, issues in the Baltic Sea region and bilateral issues. The EU's common Russia guidelines are the basis for Finland's action. The implementation of the Minsk Agreement is essential for improving EU-Russia relations. I met Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov two weeks ago, and we discussed this, among other things. President Sauli Niinistö will meet President Vladimir Putin at the beginning of July. We will also keep in touch bilaterally. NATO's activities will stabilise security in Europe. Finland is implementing a broad partnership with NATO. It is important for Finland to develop regular political dialogue and practical cooperation with NATO. Finland maintains the possibility of applying for membership in NATO, following closely the change in security policy. The continuation of NATO's open door policy is therefore important. The continuous development of military cooperation with NATO is one of the key elements for Finland to develop its national defence. Finland will continue to participate in NATO exercises and training activities from its own point of view, i.e. from its own point of view. The Arctic region is a priority for us. Just yesterday, at the meeting of the EU Foreign Ministers, I stressed the global importance of the Arctic in terms of sustainable development, climate change and security. The Finnish Presidency of the Arctic Council is an opportunity to pursue these goals as a director. Mr President! Global issues and challenges today are at the heart of foreign and security policy. The role of women is crucial in addressing global challenges. Finland promotes the rights of women and girls and the equal participation of women in politics and economic life. Finland is also more closely involved in efforts to prevent violence against women. As our operating environment changes, the importance and demand for mediation and dialogue are growing. That is why more concrete efforts will be made towards mediation. Finland strengthens its efforts to promote national dialogues and mediation. The national capacity will also be strengthened. The Government will continue to actively participate in international crisis management, contrary to what is sometimes implied. Just last week, we called for the reinforcement of UNIFIL. The Government wants more effectiveness in crisis management, and we will assess the effectiveness of participation on a mission-by-operation basis in the future. An active foreign and security policy is also necessary to achieve sustainable development. Finland is committed to the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Agenda. As we are well aware, we need to be able to take much more effective action in the coming years, including on the root causes of migration and conflict prevention.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u3	Then for the group discussion round, it will be started by Mr Vanhanen, the representative of the parliamentary group in the centre, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u4	Mr President! After all, it is the task of foreign policy to ensure that we have the opportunity to live, to work, to raise children in peace and without fear. The means to achieve this aim are those which must be carefully considered in foreign policy. A successful foreign policy as a nation means that we can participate freely and fully in international, both economic and cultural exchanges, and influence the environment around us, the development of Europe and the world as a whole. In order to be able to choose the right means in foreign policy, a common analysis is needed, from which the right means are derived. These reports have proved to be a good practice from time to time, every four years, to seek that common analysis and conclusions, and this is a work that requires parliamentary cooperation. It is of absolute value that we are able to do this work beyond the government-opposition threshold, and it is good to stick to this principle this time again. In fact, the current operations and position of Finland rest largely on the kind of trust capital we have received in the past years and decades through foreign policy activities, and accordingly on everything we set out and do today, the confidence capital will be enjoyed by future decision-makers. Mr President! After all, over the past few years our security policy environment has undoubtedly changed, and it is also reflected in this report, especially when you read it in parallel with the 12th report, which was drawn up in a much clearer international context. The crises have come closer to Finland and into Europe. The events in Ukraine and Crimea are in our recent memory and the conflict is still continuing. Russia is trying to restore its superpower by means of a power policy, and NATO and the United States have increased their presence in our neighbourhood. The Baltic, the Nordic and the Baltic are at the heart of the Great Power policy itself. The North is not only a potential reflection of some other conflict, but it is important to see that the basic elements of tension are also in this area. It is no one’s advantage that the Baltic Sea becomes or becomes a field of arms race and power display. The cycle of negative action and countermeasures should be cut by negotiation. The Centre has always stressed the importance of a wise and jointly agreed foreign policy, alongside which a credible defence is needed. The national defence model based on general military duty and extensive trained reserves has worked well in Finland. Our group attaches great importance to the objective set out in the report that the central objective of our foreign and security policy is to avoid military conflict. The primary purpose of defence capability is also to create a pre-emptive threshold for a potential attacker, which, together with foreign policy, will help to keep the country out of military conflict. Finland is pursuing an active stability policy specifically to prevent military threats. Active stability policy means promoting mutual trust and broad cooperation. But the objective of avoiding conflict must be seen in parallel with the obligations we have as members of the United Nations of the international community and also in relation to European solidarity. In fact, also referring to yesterday's discussions on Goldiarda, I think that, in this House too, we should go over again what solidarity and obligations within the EU mean, particularly in the event of an attack on an EU country, another EU country. We are not sidelined in such a situation. Ways and forms of participation in the crisis will be resolved on a case-by-case basis. Mr President! The main framework for our international cooperation is the Nordic countries, the EU, the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the UN and the Partnership for Peace with NATO. Cooperation with the United States is bilaterally important to us and we will foster our relations with our neighbouring Russia. Practical cooperation and dialogue with Russia should be promoted both within the EU and bilaterally. Finland will work together with other EU countries with the aim of resolving the crisis in Ukraine in accordance with the Minsk Agreement, so that sanctions could also be lifted. But this is the order. Mr President! Finland’s foreign and security policy has been defined by the non-membership of the military alliance. Together with Sweden, we have played a key role in Nordic and Baltic stability through our similar policy choices. The line has served our security well, and the parliamentary group in the centre agrees with the Government's goal that Finland will continue to be a non-military country. We also consider it justified that the Government should maintain the possibility of a military alliance. This is because if stability is undermined for reasons beyond our control, we must have the right to this and the opportunity to reconsider, and this is also an international signal for Russia. If that is the case, we think it is natural for an advisory referendum to be held. Mr President! In the end, the security of a small country is also based on things that we can influence ourselves. The centre highlights in particular the four pillars: a common, wise foreign policy supported by credible defence. But alongside these pillars, our strength is also emphasised by the fact that the country is capable of being an internal integrity, a strong constitutional state in which democracy is rooted, and by this we have an independent economy that prevents us from being shaken from the outside. If these four pillars are in order, even a small country can be a strong international player.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u5	Madam President! Finland is in a new security policy situation. Recently, our security environment has changed fundamentally and we need to respond to these changes. That is the key message of this report. The report outlines Finland's foreign and security policy priorities until 2025. The focus is on security policy. It is a strategic paper that is new in form and is easier to read. As you contemplate the threats of the world, you will find yourself thinking like a young Mr. Frodo of the Lord of the Rings: "I wish nothing like this had happened." Old and wise Gandalf aptly answers: "So hopeth all those who live their lives in such things. But it's not up to them. We can only decide what to do with the time we are given." The report provides a solid basis for the Finnish people and their elected representatives to decide what we will do at this time, which we have been given. The Finnish People's Parliamentary Group thanks the government for the fact that the report has been completed on schedule and that we can now discuss it. It is important that we talk about foreign policy issues as openly as possible. Due to a possible UK EU break-up, i.e. Brexit, there was no reason to delay the completion of the report. We cannot anticipate all the effects of Brexit at this stage. Brexit would require its own separate analysis and analysis of Finland's policy. Madam President! Russian activities in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine have had a significant impact on the security situation in Europe. Other threats are becoming more difficult to anticipate. These include terrorism, the migration crisis, cyber attacks, non-state actors such as Isil and climate change in the Arctic. Finland has a comprehensive approach to security, taking into account security-related measures in different administrative sectors. The hybrid influence carried out by Russia is mainly directed at the Baltic countries, but Finland has also received a share of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u10	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! A small country cannot afford to make major mistakes in its foreign and security policy. The report sets reliable and usable seamarks for Finland. We must always try to see deep ground currents, always figure out the essential development lines. Without a sense of history, however, this is not possible. And above all, we must recognise the famous facts. We must also have the courage to draw conclusions when the time comes. After the Cold War, we lulled ourselves into a world of optimism and cooperation. The Brandenburg Gate opened up a view of the stable and prosperous development of our continent as a whole, based on compliance with the rules of the game drawn up jointly — not least in Helsinki already, in the mid-1970s, on the agreed European table manners. Once again, we have to see the world with new eyes. Insecurity, confrontation and power politics mark reality. Geopolitics have come back. The stability of our neighbourhood is a crucial factor in Finland's security. But this is how it's always been. It is hard to imagine a separate war against Finland. We see how Russia is trying to restore its former position of superpower. Russian action first in Georgia, later in Ukraine, and The illegal takeover of Crimea is an example of power politics and serious violations of international law and joint commitments. In the changed operating environment, due to the demands of the Member States, NATO has returned to its roots to highlight the defence of its Member States rather than international military crisis management. We are now witnessing a development in which the strategic importance of the Baltic Sea for both NATO and Russia has been emphasised. Of course, this has a direct impact on Finland’s security policy position. In these circumstances, the concept of overall security also requires that account be taken of the link between internal and external security. It is also urgent to get Finland up to international standards on our legislation. The report speaks honestly. That's a good assessment of the situation. As Finland’s security situation becomes more difficult and the unpredictability of threats increases, it requires wisdom and determination, but also a common national vision. When the use of military force or its threat to our country cannot now be ruled out, the situation is, of course, serious. The basic thing is always and under all circumstances to keep your own nest in order. It is equally clear that we always do it ourselves, but never alone again. Therefore, it is important for Finland to continue to participate actively in military cooperation exercises. This will ensure compatibility with the delivery and reception situations. One of our basic choices is to intensify cooperation with Sweden on foreign, security and defence policy. Important steps have been taken here, and our cooperation is still intensifying, as it is not justified on the part of Finland to set any backseat in advance, as stated in the report. We have closely followed the foreign and security policy debate of the last few days, in particular those which have just ended the debate on Gold Beach. We are now well aware of the positions of the current Swedish Government. However, it is good to keep an eye on the long-term funding of even a state treaty-level arrangement for a time of crisis, for when the truth comes, no more negotiation or disputing. The importance of the European Union is invaluable to Finland. The EU is not only a value community in Finland but also the most important international forum in Finland. Membership was an important choice for Finland in foreign and security policy, and it increased our influence in international contexts. However, Europe faces exceptional challenges. The refugee crisis, the economic crisis and the vagueness of decision-making have strengthened populism, extremism and nationalism in a way that threatens the fundamental pillars of the European Community. Internal tensions in the EU have increased. Finland, too, must be determined to work towards the unity and capacity of the European Union. Mr President! A broad and comprehensive interpretation of the EU solidarity clause and the obligation to provide mutual assistance is in Finland's interest. However, it is wise to recognise that the EU is not a defence alliance. Instead, closer cooperation between the EU and NATO is justified, for example, in combating hybrid threats and strengthening the resilience of societies. President! On several occasions, the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party has expressed a clear view on the security implications of Finland's NATO membership. The report also states that it is important for Finland to continue its policy of open NATO doors and at the same time to secure the prospect of membership. It is also important to intensify military cooperation with the United States, regardless of NATO. As the landscape becomes more serious in our security environment, it is also a relief to note many positive developments. The report takes account of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which are important evidence that the rule-based world order has not been completely buried after all. The Coalition Party underscores sustainable development, development cooperation, mediation and crisis management. Mr President! Compliance with common rules creates stability and security. Finland must make every possible contribution to this, both within the EU, the UN and the OSCE and bilaterally with Russia. Dialogue and cooperation are particularly needed during difficult times. However, we are also forced to prepare for serious challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u11	Mr President! The Baltic Sea region is not an isolated island of peace or a sea of peace. The Ukraine crisis and the contrasts and tensions created by the invasion of Crimea are also reflected in our part of the world. Here, too, there are signs of a spiral of armaments, and all countries consider themselves forced to increase their crisis capacity. This is reflected in increased equipment and training activities as well as in situations used for military demonstrations of force. This is worrying. Even more worrying is the warlike rhetoric that has also begun to be cultivated in our surroundings, as well as in Finnish media. We hope that the Government's report on foreign and security policy would have very clearly distanced itself from the war talks and emphasised an active stability policy aimed at preventing conflicts and breaking tensions. Security policy aimed at strengthening security must be primarily aimed at avoiding serious conflicts and situations leading to the use of weapons. The report continues the same line of preparedness and equipment as the government programme itself. This is necessary in itself, because failure to prepare for bad situations would be irresponsible. However, it is particularly important to understand that we, as a militarily non-aligned country, are doing this in order to be able to remain outside military conflicts. Thus, even the idea heard from the Finnish Minister that we would inevitably be drawn into any military conflict in the immediate area is unfounded and, at its worst, can be interpreted as a prior declaration as a party to the conflict. A credible defence, as well as the possibility of accepting assistance in a crisis situation, is necessary to this end, as is the fact that we ensure that no one has reason to doubt Finland's ability to prevent the use of its territory for any other militarily hostile purposes. This is also the best way to combat the possibility of an armed attack which has not been fully ruled out in the report. The report has rightly looked at the importance of international defence cooperation. We fully agree with the report's statement that Sweden has a special role in Finland's bilateral cooperation. This is what we Social Democrats have also been working on today at the joint security seminar of the Swedish and Finnish Social Democratic parties, where our guests include Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist and former Foreign Minister Lena Hjelm-Wallén. The report stresses that Finland maintains the possibility of applying for membership in NATO, following closely the change in the security environment. We consider this to be an obvious right and an obligation for a sovereign state, but we also stress that we do not now see any grounds for calling into question the non-alignment of the military alliance and the non-alignment of stability. Mr President! It is important that we carry out an open, realistic, comprehensive and ideological assessment of the security policy situation in both the global and the surrounding environment. This applies to developments in Russia and to actions which have been assessed in this way in the report. A similar assessment must, of course, be applied to the behaviour of all actors, including those factors and events which Russia considers to have had to react to and which it sets out as a justification for its own actions. Such an examination does not give any justification for or consent to acts that violate international law or agreements by Russia or anyone else. However, knowledge and understanding of many historical, geopolitical and interactive factors affecting international relations and activities is a prerequisite for breaking the cycle of power policy and not feeding it with new misassessments. Referring to the unpredictability of Russia's development ignores the essential long-term continuity in the country's politics, and so under the Brexit vote and the US presidential election there is nothing but Russia. A more concise report on previous reports now also ignores all the issues of unsustainable global development, which are already reflected in acute security threats and create new ones. This can be summed up in the statement that, at best, mankind can only have a few decades left to adapt all human activities on earth to the demands of ecologically, socially and economically sustainable development. The Paris climate agreement is an important step, but it must also be fully implemented. The report rightly refers to the increasing risk of social polarisation, but there are no guidelines on how to deal with this. Mr President! Foreign and security policy will be valuable if the main guidelines can be adopted in the broadest possible consensus. With this in mind, it is to be commended that a parliamentary monitoring group was set up to prepare the report with a view to preparing the report in close interaction between the government and the group. This was only partially achieved. As a result of the urgent timetable already requested by the rapporteur, the views expressed unanimously in the monitoring group have only been taken into account to a limited extent. We are therefore confident that, in the parliamentary process of the report, Parliament's response to the report can be drawn up in a spirit of good cooperation similar to that of the monitoring group so that it corrects and complements the shortcomings and unilateralities that have been left in the report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u12	Madam President! The interests of a small country are a stable foreign and security policy line which has been adopted jointly and does not vary according to governments. This has been the case in Finland, and the recent report on foreign and security policy continues along the same lines. Despite its small size, Finland has always been active in the world and has been creating common international rules. The promotion of human rights, in particular the improvement of the position of women and girls, the principles of sustainable development, democracy and peace building have been important foreign policy objectives for Finland. The promotion of these is increasingly important in this time period. It is good that they are clearly also included in the report. But it's not enough. Politics is measured in deeds, not in words. Finland's drastic cuts in development aid and the tightening of refugee policy send a different message. The most recent message against official objectives was sent at the end of last week. Finland was not among those countries that called for more ambitious action by the Council of Europe to promote the rights of the sexual minority. Unfortunately, in the course of the current government, Finland has been found several times in the same group as the Conservative countries of Eastern Europe when human rights have been defined in the EU. The Greens have always stressed the need for common global rules to resolve global crises. The importance of international agreements is becoming increasingly important for a small country as a result of a policy of force. Finland should step up its efforts to ensure that joint organisations from the UN to the OSCE and the EU to the Nordic Council become stronger and more operational. Mr President! For years now, we have added a number of non-traditional risks to the list of threats to foreign and security policy, such as climate change, refugeeism, terrorism and cyber threats. Now in many ways those threats have been realised. At the same time, traditional security threats have also returned. Russia has returned to power policy thinking. NATO has set its priorities back in Europe. This is reflected in increased tension in the Baltic Sea. Strengthening European security cooperation, as set out in the report, will receive the support of the Greens. We believe it is important for the European Union to deepen its foreign and security policy and to develop common capacities and arrangements for closer defence cooperation, no matter what happens in the British Brexit vote on the day after tomorrow. The Greens are also in favour of closer cooperation between Finland and Sweden. The Greens are not in favour of NATO membership: This would increase the tension in the Baltic Sea region. Finland's accession to NATO would be an important political change. Such a fundamental decision would require a broad public debate and a referendum. Madam President! The Arctic region is an area of growing international interest. Finland is the Presidency of the Arctic Council from 2017 to 2019. We will then have the opportunity to have a greater influence on the Council's activities. The protection and ecological sustainability of Arctic land and sea areas must be at the forefront of Finland's Arctic strategy. The sensitive and most vulnerable Arctic regions must be fully protected. Their oil and natural gas resources must be left alone. The rules of the Arctic require clarification. The area must not become a target for the plundering of natural resources. To settle disputes, peaceful practices in accordance with international law must be established. The report states that the promotion of the rights of indigenous peoples is an integral part of Finland's Arctic and human rights policy. The Greens therefore expect the government to take action to promote the rights of the Sami people and to ratify the ILO 169. Mr President! Energy policy is part of security policy. The EU Energy Union has set itself the objective of reducing its energy dependence and increasing the use of renewable energy. Finland's energy production is too dependent on Russia, which Fennovoima would strengthen further if it were implemented. This brings vulnerability to our security of supply and enables us to use energy as a weapon of foreign and security policy. The report aims to integrate Finland's energy policy into the EU's Energy Union. In practice, this means reducing energy dependence from the eastern neighbour and a significant additional investment in domestic renewable energy. Madam President! Finland has traditionally seen the importance of investing in mediation and crisis management. This wise decision has also been confirmed in this report. For the Greens, it is important that words and deeds meet. More resources are needed for mediation, otherwise it will not become a priority for foreign and security policy. Crisis management must finally achieve a holistic approach. The Greens also consider it important that Finland is committed to promoting the UN Resolution on Women, Peace and Security. The role of women must be strengthened both in peace building and in the reconstruction of society. Last December, the UN adopted the Youth, Peace and Security Resolution. Finland must make a strong commitment to its promotion and implementation. The report's line that the number of delegations should not be reduced is a good one. This is how we get information from the world without intermediaries. Similarly, it is important to support the access of Finns to international organisations and the extensive participation of Finns in crisis management missions around the world. Mr President! Today there are more refugees in the world than ever since World War II. The Greens support the report's approach that our international support should be directed towards conflict countries and their neighbouring regions, which bear the hardest burden of supporting those who have fled their homes. However, this is not enough. There is a need for a fairer and fairer burden sharing in which European countries, including Finland, must shoulder greater responsibility. Mr President! The report sets ambitious objectives for Finland's foreign and security policy. Their implementation requires more ambitious decisions. Politics is not measured in words, but in deeds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u13	Mr President! On my own behalf and on behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Monitoring Group on the Foreign and Security Policy Report for its good work, good cooperation and excellent background discussions. The working group hoped that this report would have been brought to Parliament later, but they wanted to stick stubbornly to the timetable. I would also have expected the follow-up group's feedback to have been better taken into account at the various stages of the work and in the final text. From the point of view of Finnish security, it is essential to know that our region is not used against anyone for hostile purposes. In order to ensure this, we must have our own and credible defence. In a small country such as Finland, the largest foreign and security policy capital is the stability and predictability of the line. The more unstable the international political situation, the greater the reason for holding to self-determination. It is also worth remembering in the context of the reform of national legislation. Finland has not given up its own discretion through the solidarity and assistance clauses of the Treaty of Lisbon or through the NATO host agreement. Those who wish to undermine Finland's foreign and security policy will be happy to give the impression that our hands are already tied. In the same way, it is said that if there is a military conflict in the Baltic Sea region, we will automatically be a party to it. As a non-military country, Finland’s chances of remaining outside military conflicts are much more likely. On the other hand, as a member of NATO, there is no such option. Mr President! Recently, the German Foreign Minister warned NATO of unnecessary sabering at its borders. Prime Minister Sipilä also gave an interview in which he said that building iron on the border would not solve the problems. And the president. On several occasions, Niinistö has also reminded us of the importance of bilateral contacts during difficult times and at that time. The international climate has also become tense in the Baltic Sea region. However, Ukraine and The situation in Crimea cannot be duplicated to apply to Finland, Sweden or our neighbouring regions. We do not accept the violation of international agreements and the use of force by Russia, but we also do not believe that the acceleration of armaments and military pecking will solve the problems. We do not sign the report's statement that the increasing presence of NATO will stabilise the situation in the Baltic Sea. Finland best stabilises the situation in its neighbourhood by staying outside the military alliance and supporting an active stability policy, which has often been highlighted by the President of the Republic, for example. This year international military exercises have been held in Finland that have not been seen before. Due to the noise and the problems of the flow of information from the exercises, a new guidance was drawn up to assess whether the exercises are of particular importance for foreign policy. Parliament must always be up to date with what we are involved in. Even here in Parliament, it is claimed that there was nothing new or unusual about these military exercises. However, the American commander of the Baltops exercise made a statement that they are here to show strength. Mr President! The report takes a very positive view of the militarisation of the EU. Is it true that when the Union is fighting for its existence in the face of unprecedented internal conflicts and economic difficulties, the only thing that will hold together will be the intensification of EU defence cooperation? Ambitious climate policy, development cooperation and the promotion of human rights would be enough work anyway. We do not accept federal development in this area either, and we wonder where the criticism of the EU that was still in power in the last period has disappeared. The structure, text and emphasis of the report are partly formal. Threats are emerging and are not always justified. But one thing is clear: the report is uncritical of what has to do with the United States and NATO. Cooperation will be deepened, intensified, strengthened, expanded, coordinated and developed. This line does not apply only to defence cooperation; the report states Finland's support for a just, fair and sustainable TTIP agreement. How does this agreement become one, given whose starting point has it begun to be built? Such uncriticalness will cost a great deal if it means a 'all-go' policy. For example, if the seller of replacement fighter acquisitions can be sure that it is the only alternative to the acquisition of the fighter, that error will immediately cost billions of euros extra. The seller knows how to set the price if he knows he's in the sale. Mr President! Finland should remember its own history, know its place in Europe and exercise sound national lobbying. At its best, Finland can be a strong player in environmental protection, challenges in the Arctic region, mediation and crisis management. For example, the Finnish Presidency of the Arctic Council offers an excellent opportunity to bring the environment and research closer to economic affairs. Finland is best able to achieve these goals as a militarily non-aligned country with good relations with both the East and the West and at least with all neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u14	Värderade Talman! Midsommarveckan har präglats av en livlig säkerhetspolitikt debatt ox i Finland. Först diskussionerna på Gullranda som presidenten stad värd för och nu den utrikes- och säkerhetspolitiska redogörelsen som i dag granskas toi i riksdagen. Att tonläget i debatten har blivit öppnare och tydligare har vi regeringens redogörelse, men också den expertgrupp som gjorde en bedömning av conseknserna av ett eventuellt finländskt Natomedlemskap, att tacka för. I decennier har den finländska säkerhetspolitiska debatten präglats av försiktighet och man har helst täst tyst på tå. Nu är det klarspråk som gäller.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u15	Madam President! The Foreign and Security Policy Report lists 15 priorities, all of which highlight Finland's desire to promote stability both in neighbouring areas and through international cooperation, including as a member of the EU and the UN and as a partner in NATO's peace. The basic doctrine of active foreign policy, credible self-defence and international cooperation is unchanged. However, there has been a clear change in the security policy environment. The previous NATO report and this report describe both the tense situation in the Baltic Sea and Russia's role in it, as well as the negative spiral of action and countermeasures, which has led to increased military activity in our neighbourhood. In order to combat military threats, Finland is pursuing a proactive and active stability policy. Maintaining dialogue with Russia will contribute to this and will not conflict with the EU's common Russia agenda. On the other hand, trade and energy policy is often an extension of foreign and security policy, so do we see the objective mentioned in the report of integrating Finland and Russia into the development of the EU Energy Union from Brussels with the same hope? Madam President! The Christian Democrats are mainly in agreement with the estimates made in the report. In order to increase the security of the Baltic Sea region, deepening cooperation with Sweden is of paramount importance. The report highlights the development of operational planning for defence cooperation. I would like to add a point of view on whether Nordic cooperation could be increased in response to hybrid threats. In this area, wider shoulders and more diverse skills could be of particular benefit. The Internal Security Report, which was discussed in spring, has already stated that the internal and external security border will be reduced. The same observation is made here too. Security policy must be seen as a whole. Radicalisation, terrorism, cybercrime, immigration issues, hybrid threats — all concern both internal security and external relations. The instruments of hybridisation can also be used as an instrument of internal policy and against countries with which there is no real war. So the line between war and peace is also blurring. Preparing for hybrid threats is necessary and challenging, but we are also well equipped for this. In Finland, cooperation between authorities is exemplary and world-class. We can be confident that both those responsible for internal security and external relations and defence policy will communicate smoothly with each other and use each other's know-how and resources. From the point of view of foreign and security policy, it is extremely important to ensure domestic food production and security of supply, i.e. to increase our self-sufficiency in food and energy production. In the fight against hybrid threats, this is one of the basics, and I hope that we will not stumble over them because of the weak agricultural policy. Madam President! The report notes that Finland maintains the possibility of applying for NATO membership and that the European Union's defence cooperation will be developed in cooperation with NATO. Only two days away is the British referendum on the continuation of EU membership, and the report hardly mentions it. I must join in the amazement of previous speeches about the timing of this report. The possible Brexit also has extensive foreign and security policy implications, and the KD, as a parliamentary group, requires that the government is also prepared for Britain's resignation. The EU is in the process of bringing closer to the common security policy. What is the government’s attitude toward this, among other things? As far as Arctic cooperation is concerned, the report is unfortunately limited. I hope, however, that the government has carefully prepared itself for the Presidency of the Arctic Council which will begin next year. Now is the time to have a single full-time Arctic policy equivalent to that of central government. There is, of course, coordination, but less overall leadership. The aim must be to organise the summit and to increase the concession. When the report underscores the promotion of the rights of indigenous peoples as a central objective of the government, would ratification of the ILO Convention for Finland increase the credibility of this paragraph? Madam President! According to the report, Finland emphasises the whole range of foreign and security policy and development policy in fragile countries and seeks to influence the root causes of migration. From this point of view, it is impossible to understand the energy and activity shown by the government in driving down Finnish development cooperation. You do understand that these activities endanger, among other things, the continuation of the schooling of many girls and boys in developing countries, but have also weakened Finland's international position? By what means are you trying to repair and repair the damage that has already been done? Madam President! Finally, I would like to raise the issue of the Middle East. We encourage the government to take a constructive and conflict-relief line and to cooperate internationally in a determined fight against terrorism. The stability of that region is ultimately reflected in Finland as well. Overall, when describing the global environment, the report highlights a number of policies to be supported, including sustainable development, human rights, mediation and rule-making. The government must consider whether it has sufficient resources and resources to implement them. Why are the fine goals set not reflected in any way in government measures? Madam President! If Finland wishes, it can continue to be a great power of mediation, and that is what we have to offer on a global scale.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u16	Before the debate, Mr Soini and Mr Sipilä will speak first. — Minister Soini, up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u17	Madam President! Thanks for the group talk. They were constructive, and as much as there are criticisms, so must democracy be. But there are a few things I want to say: For the first time, the Parliamentary Monitoring Group received a draft report, which was also taken into account. In this way, we are trying to ensure that these foreign and security policy guidelines are actually prepared on a broad basis. In the past, the observatories have made their own separate policies. I know this quite well when I was chairman of the previous Committee on Foreign Affairs. This must be made clear that we are now moving in a more open and still more attentive direction. This is a good thing. Well, then about the process. Usually, if the content is good enough, then the process will be interfered. Of course, it is the right to criticise it. I explained this issue of Brexit, but let me say it in any case as some kind of experience with that system. Then we voted in favour of staying or leaving, and it is quite clear that it will affect the European Union. So it is not the case that if the British stay, nothing will change. Everything changes, and only change is permanent. That is why I think it is better for the government to act in accordance with its programme, to do these things on time. Otherwise, the only thing that the government would have done in these areas would have been a NATO report from people who are experts, but the government's position on these matters would not be reached as if it were — after the presidential election, or who is expected? Then there are a few things. There were good observations here, including the threats, opportunities and so forth from the representative of the Judge-in-Office, which was very constructive. On this point, I would like to emphasise that we do not maintain threats, not to mention that we are instigating conflicts, but that stability and strengthening security in particular require that our policy be clear and strong in advance and that our defence capabilities are known to others. This is a good thing. Then, Mr Mustajärvi, your speech was interesting. For the last term, you did not fit in with the Left Alliance Parliament, now you are a group speaker for the Left Alliance Parliament. What has changed, and why has it changed? I find this interesting. Finland is not snuck or snuck anywhere, that is quite clear. You brought up the exercise. That's good. International training is part of Finland's international cooperation, it serves us, the needs of national crisis management and the development of our own national defence. It is clear that we Finns, Finland, choose from our own perspective, on the basis of military performance and security policy considerations, exercises in which we participate — we, no one else. Mr Essayah finally raised the issue of the Middle East. It's very important. I personally visited both Israel and the Palestinian region. The Finnish message is very clear: we are in favour of a fair, lasting peace, a two-state model, that killing, terror and so on should be curbed. The Greens’ speech had a good environment and a broad understanding of it, just as the government realizes. If we do not have a fair trade policy in Africa, if we do not accept those products, then we will have to accept those people because they are going to move. I think this is an important observation. Then, of course, the group talks of the government parties and the Finns-based were excellent analyses and responsible, taking the interests of the country into account, but I must say that the sugar was the basis of the RKP's speech. That was technically the best RKP speech I have ever heard, and I have heard many. Thank you, Mrs Wallin!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u18	Prime Minister Sipilä, up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u19	Madam Speaker! The aim of foreign and security policy is to safeguard Finland's independence, strengthen our international position, guarantee the safety and well-being of Finns and ensure the functioning of society. The central objective is to prevent our country from entering into a military conflict. These objectives and objectives serve as a guiding principle for the government in all situations. Our line is Finland's long line: Finland is a non-military country, we maintain a strong national defence capability, we maintain the possibility of a military alliance in order to maintain our national leeway, we work with NATO as a practical partner in peace. I also consider it extremely important that there is broad parliamentary agreement on Finland's foreign and security policy. Just a few sightings. Firstly, it is natural that the European Union is an essential framework for Finland. The strong development of the EU as a security community is in Finland's interest. The ties between the EU countries are deep and it is natural that they also extend to security. EU countries also support each other in military crises. When France asked for help, it was given. It was self-evident to all EU countries. During my visit to France last week, Finland was praised for its concrete assistance as part of this decision. We are now also releasing the French company for the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon. Finland and Sweden have also found each other in security policy. According to this report, cooperation with Sweden in foreign and security policy is wide-ranging and will be promoted on the basis of common interests, without restrictions. In practice, this means that we can work together as far as there is political will. From the discussions I have had with my Swedish colleague, I know that the cornerstone of their foreign and security policy is military non-alignment and they do not want to go to military alliances or to state alliances with Finland either. We also received confirmation of this on Sunday at Gold Beach. However, I believe that cooperation can be further deepened without a state alliance or a military alliance. Mr President! As far as Russia is concerned, Finland, like the whole of the European Union, has responded decisively to the crisis in Ukraine and stands on the same front. The activities of the Crimean Peninsula and Eastern Ukraine will be condemned. Uncompromising implementation of the Minsk Agreement is the key to the abolition of sanctions. But even during the crisis, there must be dialogue. I support President Niinistö's arguments as to why he has invited President Putin to Finland. The government has also deliberately increased dialogue with Russia. Madam President! Finland's partnership with NATO has lasted almost a quarter of a century. NATO has a key role to play in European security. NATO also plays a role in the security of people in the Baltic countries and, therefore, in the security of the Baltic Sea as a whole. Tension in the Baltic Sea has increased. The increased level of iron and activity in the region also increases the risk of accidents and accidental conflicts. For example, airplanes flying in the dark or without transponder pose a danger not only to each other but also to civil aircraft. Mr President! I believe that the report on foreign and security policy is a strong basis for Finland's policy. It gives a realistic picture of our operating environment: there are threats and they are being prepared for, but there are also opportunities that we can seize. Finland is not a bystander but an active influence. It is important that we work together with an active foreign and security policy to build a more stable, secure and fairer world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u20	Good. Then we'll go to the debat. I'll ask those involved to report to it. — — — — First up, Congressman Vanhanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u21	Mr President! This first round of discussions shows what it is natural in a democracy, that there are clearly also differences between the groups, but they were presented in a way that does not prevent us from being able to respond to the report in a common way in the present and the time. I believe that this will create the conditions for an answer on which Parliament could be unanimous. Almost everyone stressed that, especially for a small country, it is essential that this agreement be based on international cooperation, respect for the agreements, respect for them. In fact, I believe that our greatest challenge in this parliamentary debate will be the way in which we ourselves define our response to the way in which we are prepared to implement and comply with the treaty known as the EU Treaty, the Treaty of Lisbon, and its solidarity and mutual assistance clauses. I think it is important that Finland also leaves this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u22	Madam President! The report states that Finland will intensify its relations with China. Particular emphasis is placed on areas of interest to Finland for China and for China’s development. Finland is a founding member of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) — we signed the founding document about a year ago. This involves China's new silk road, which goes from Asia to Europe on land and sea routes. Silk Road is the largest construction project in the world. The chain of infrastructure projects is the largest economic corridor in the world, affecting 4.4 billion people and residential areas accounting for an annual turnover of EUR 19 trillion. There are already more than 500 million middle-class consumers in Asia. My question to the government is: how does the government intend to support Finnish companies' access to construction projects along the silk road?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u23	Mr President! The most serious thing in this debate today is the accusations of sabering, which are said to be carried out by one party in the Baltic Sea. Go ask about Ukraine: in the last 24 hours, two more soldiers are dead, five wounded. This story has been going on for two years — two years, a serious matter. So you might want to see who's to blame, who's to pick up the stick. It is a question of two tracks in Europe: either the path of power policy, on which we know how it affects even small countries, or the contractual path of international agreements, commitments, international law, which respects the rules of the game. Finland must do everything in its power to make that road a mainstream.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u24	Mr President! I listened to the debate with the ear of how Parliament can in future be able to gather a common view on Parliament's response. I trust that it is possible. We had a good consensus in the monitoring group, and hopefully it will continue. I see no special obstacles here. Of course, it means that there will be a certain amount of mainstream travel, and it means that, as it were, extreme opinions will not be recorded as such. I do not believe that we represent these, but I fully understand that Parliament's response will not be written exactly as we see it as the best possible. But it is not anyone else's answer, but it is Parliament's answer, and it would be desirable that it should actually be created by a broad consensus. In this respect, perhaps the most obvious point of reference is for the RKP, who clearly wanted to deviate from this, and perhaps the Coalition Party will have to reflect on the way in which it is to be formulated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u25	Mr President! It is true that change is happening all the time, and surely the timing of this report itself will be poor if it remains pending a specific decision. But the problem with this, in my opinion, is that this will remain for three months and that Parliament will not begin its deliberations until the autumn. In that sense, of course, it would have liked the government to have brought this only in the autumn, as the monitoring group unanimously wished. And not only does the debate not continue among the parliamentarians, but, above all, I am disturbed by these dates, both in this report and in the NATO report, when we want a broad civil debate and the other was timed just when people started to spend the May Day, and now people are about to leave for the Midsummer. I hope that the third report, the defence policy report, will not be there just before Christmas, because the President It is a culture which has been wonderfully created by Niinistö that all citizens speak and follow the foreign and security policy, and it should:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u26	Mr President! Foreign Minister Soini, it's not that unusual for me to make a group statement. Last season I wore them a lot more.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u27	Mr President! During the preparation of this report, there has also been a debate on the timetable: is this the right time to submit a report, or would it have been a better time only in the autumn? However, we know very well that already the day after tomorrow something will happen that may have a profound impact on the forms of cooperation in Europe and also on Finland directly. The British will vote against the Brexit on Thursday, hopefully the Brexit. It is difficult, even impossible, to anticipate the situation and the outcome at the moment. We should not paint the devil on the wall, but it is obvious that if the British leave the Union, it will also have a direct impact on European foreign and security policy. As Minister Soini said, if this happens, everything will change. I would like to ask how the government is more prepared for such a revolutionary change in Europe, particularly from a foreign and security policy point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u28	Madam President! This is a good place to go. The Christian Democrats have not only criticised this time of day, but it is precisely what Mrs Wallin said in that regard that does the government have views on it — since security policy is now likely to be stepped up in the EU anyway — how we react to this. It seems to me that when things are mixed up within the EU, then that common foreign and security policy and its condensation seem to be some sort of way out. Among other things, France has proposed that an extraordinary meeting should be convened to activate the Middle East peace process. At the same time, however, we expect the Quartet, which includes the EU, the UN and also Russia and the USA, as all parties involved, to bring its own proposals. So these are the kind of breakups that happen. Is Finland taking a positive view of these detachments, and how are we going to react to this if, at a very rapid pace, this intensifying cooperation on security is taken forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u29	Mr President! The timing of this report has been a matter of controversy, and the main shortcoming is that there is now a lack of in-depth analysis of the British referendum and of the Warsaw summit in NATO. But even this one can do just fine. From the point of view of Parliament, this can also be seen in such a way that this timing actually underlines the importance of Parliament's analysis and orientation. The analysis and alignment are now being carried out in this house in the autumn, when these things are being weighed. In this respect, the value of the Parliament as the UTP’s line-up will increase further. Mr President! Another point. Finland—Swedish defence cooperation has strong support in both Finland and Sweden.It was last noted in the discussions with Kultaranta yesterday and the day before. That is a good solution, and I believe it will contribute to stability in northern Europe. But on the other hand: while defence cooperation is being deepened, there is also a need to deepen foreign policy cooperation and to increase coordination. Is the government on the move in this respect, and is it intended to intensify the coordination of foreign policy? After all, our foreign policy is not exactly identical, albeit close to one another.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u30	Mr President! This change in the security environment has been painted with very heavy brushes. My own father, born in 1929, asked yesterday whether the war was being prepared for when he had listened to the speeches of the last few days. If the citizens begin to experience this, then not all messages may have happened. This is something to think about. I would like to thank Prime Minister Sipilä, who has dealt with difficult issues in an excellent, fine and responsible way — the essential aspects of this issue have been raised, but without the feeling of being at war or, at least, in a hybrid war. I would also like to thank you for maintaining this basic line itself: Finland will take care of its defence and will remain outside the military alliances.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u31	Mr President! The Government can be commended for this approach in the report: I believe that this combines a stable policy with a realistic analysis of the security situation in our neighbourhood as well. It must be possible to say things out loud if something changes, it is part of the civil debate, but there must be stability and patience in action, and that is what it looks like. But I would like to draw attention to one thing that is less important in the report. Our operating environment has also changed in the northern sea area, i.e. the Arctic Sea Region. There, the withdrawal of ice and the progress of climate change are heating up territorial waters twice as fast as global warming is taking place elsewhere, and there is also an increasing risk of security tension. Similarly, the Arctic Sea Region is the only maritime area in the world without a network of nature reserves, there is no limitation on the safety risks of shipping to a sufficiently low level in the event of accidents and the rules on the use of natural resources are still in place. The Government does not take the same line as the Arctic Strategy in 2013 that Finland is promoting full protection of this very central polar area and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u32	Madam President! This situation will really highlight the role of Parliament in such a way that, in about three months' time, when this comes back here again, there will certainly be quite a lot of time before that. I would just like to say briefly that, now that this NATO debate is taking place, it wants to overshadow the very central area which is well stated here in the report, that is, what the European Union will play in this security policy. You, Prime Minister, have just had a debate with President Hollande, I understand, on security policy too, and it is very clear here that we need to strengthen this joint European Union preparedness and defence — and it is also mentioned here that, in cooperation with NATO, the European Union is cooperating. What impression do you and the Foreign Minister now have of what these words hold back when you have had these debates?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u33	Mr President! The security environment in the Baltic Sea has changed with Russia's efforts. This is a fact. Contrary to what is stated in this report, the presence of NATO in the Baltic Sea region has also contributed to the increase in these tensions. I believe that this too is a fact which must be possible in a report of this kind. Military non-alignment increases security in Finland and is an important part of the predictability and reliability of Finland's foreign and security policy, the importance of which has been highlighted in many of these speeches today. In addition to this, the importance of an active stabilisation policy has been stressed, and this is exactly what I myself would have liked to have been dealt with more in this report. Now this important part of Finland’s foreign policy is largely without content. So what is the Prime Minister's view, how could Finland play a more active role in defusing these tensions in the Baltic Sea?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u34	Mr President! According to the report, Finland will strengthen its efforts towards the basic causes and fragile states of migration. In fact, Finland has a particular impact on the basic causes of people leaving their homes in the Middle East, Afghanistan and Africa. Finland participates in the search for political solutions and in military and civilian crisis management activities in the countries of origin and transit. This will affect their ability to prevent and control serious crime, violence, smuggling of human beings and terrorism. Civilian crisis management supports capacity, rule of law and good governance in the target countries. Therefore, civilian crisis management is an important priority. According to the report, Finland works to ensure that women are more involved in building peace and security. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u35	Värderade fru talman! Den auri redogörelsen är rakt på sak, den är ärlig, någonting som vi uppskattar i svenska folkpartiet. Och jag vill också säga det att jag tror att vi alla är eniga om att vi behöver fördjupa vårt samarbete med Sverige. Det kom också mycket tydligt fram i Gullrandadissussionerna att det finns ett ömsesigt behov, man ser en ömsesidig netta, och den linjen ska vi fortsätta på.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u36	Värderade Talman! Som Henriksson nämnde innehåller ju det rauh också andra saker än bara redogörelse om milita rally anser.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u37	Mr President! As chairman of the monitoring group, I would like to say that in the very first place we have chosen the way in which we are trying to influence the content of the report under preparation, even when the Council of Presidents stated in this letter that, if necessary, this group can take a position on the proposals in preparation. So we did not go out to make our own paper — which we could and could have done. But we chose the path of influence. 15 meetings were held, and we were able to give feedback. In that, of course, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is right that we were able to read versions, which was, of course, a good thing, after a bit of plucking, but that is a minor point. What is essential is that we were able to give unanimous feedback, two paragraphs, unanimous feedback from Parliament. I think it is already an achievement which will hopefully guide further work as we go to the preparation of the defence policy report during this summer and autumn. And as far as I understand it, this report itself developed to some extent as a result of this feedback. In which direction, each one can judge, but I would say, in a more balanced direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u38	Mr President! For my part, too, I would like to thank you for building these basic guidelines on Finland's foreign and security policy in this report on a traditional model. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for listening to those discussions on the Gold Beach. I would like to raise one point here, which seems to be the concern of both the Swedish Prime Minister and the President of the Republic in those discussions. It was this erosion of rule-based activity in the international arena. In this context, I would like to ask Foreign Minister Soin how the government has thought on the basis of this report, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is more broadly reinforcing this rule-based activity. This UN Charter and its inter-state policies have been raised here. The trade system has been raised here and the capacity and efficiency of international organisations has been highlighted. But are there concrete plans to strengthen this rule-based action in addition to these issues?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u39	Madam President! Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation of the report and also to the Prime Minister for the answers. Here's the report. Many debates and speeches have highlighted the Arctic region, which is also mentioned in this report, and which states that the situation has remained relatively stable so far. Russia is an important player there, but so is Finland and certainly only good. This has been understood for a long time and the Arctic strategy has been implemented on many occasions. The Arctic potential must of course be exploited, understanding its sensitivity, the position of indigenous peoples. But there's also a chance, I think. The Christian Democrats made a very interesting presentation about the person responsible for this kind of expertise, but I would like to ask the Foreign Minister if there are any concrete steps that can be found already in this reign to exploit the Arctic.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u40	Mr President! The report talks a lot about military cooperation, defence, and that is understandable in these times. But there are fewer points here that peace also needs structures. In other words, if we want to be active in Finland, we should consider what Finland is proposing with regard to the EU's assistance and solidarity clauses. Finland presents what Finland proposes in the mediation process in relation to arms control, nuclear weapons agreements. In my opinion, these could be raised more strongly in Parliament's response. Then I would like to ask the Foreign Minister a question relating to cooperation between Finland and Sweden. We've been talking a lot this weekend about what separates us, what connects us. One thing stands out: Sweden has concluded bilateral agreements with the United States and also with Denmark and England on defence cooperation. Is it the idea that this developing cooperation between Finland and Sweden would, however, bring such a defence cooperation agreement, even if it did not bring a defence alliance?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u41	Madam President! As the report also shows, radicalisation is a growing and serious threat to us in Finland. A terrorist organization has gone to Finland to fight Isis has several dozen foreign fighters, and a few dozen of them have returned to Finland. In particular, these foreign fighters who have returned to Finland pose a serious threat. We recently visited Germany with the Committee on Defence, where foreign fighters who have returned to Germany have been convicted in court, and in Germany terrorist suspects are also being removed from travel documents, such as passports. According to a recent government proposal, travelling with a terrorist offence in mind will also be punishable in Finland, but this alone is not enough. We must give a clear signal that Finland is not going to fight in the ranks of terrorist organisations — let alone come back without considerable punishment. I would ask the ministers: when are we going to do this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u42	Madam President! Of course, as has been said here, we must focus on addressing the root causes of global security problems. The importance of mediation, human rights, democracy and the development of justice is absolutely essential if we are to dream of a peaceful future. For Finland, as part of Europe, the development of Africa, particularly North Africa, is crucial. There are alternatives to migration such as migration. In addition to traditional development aid, there is a broad and ambitious EU cooperation in areas such as trade, business development, agriculture, education, sustainable development, economic growth — and so on. The Centre Group is making a UTP agenda in which we propose that the EU should draw up an ambitious Africa strategy to accelerate and achieve development. I think that would be an excellent idea. Can we promote it? I'll ask the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u43	Madam President! Representative Wallin gave a group speech in which the NATO sails were fluttering as if they were at a party meeting of the Moderates in Sweden. Foreign Minister Soini said 'technically excellent', whatever this means. Perhaps Minister Soin's statement in 2008 'Nato rather than the EU' gives some indication of this under Brexit. Madam President! The invasion of Crimea and the inciting of war in Eastern Ukraine by Russian armed forces is totally unacceptable and is also reflected in tension in the Baltic Sea region. Now, in this programme, the government says that the presence and functioning of NATO will stabilise the security of the region with regard to the Baltic Sea. Personally, I would see that we should act to break the tension, both in Russia and in NATO, and I consider it a special line that it would be good if there were more and more armed forces in the Baltic Sea. Wouldn't that be good?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u44	Irade the Talman! Precis som ricksdagsledamot Aila Paloniemi bull så vill jag också ta fasta på de punkter som handlar om concretengen av inre och yttre säkerhetsamband och dessutom också Jämstaldhet och mänskliga rättighter som utgångspunkt. Europa är naturligtvis inte Heller den continent som är mest förutsägbar just nu i sin politik. Vi har rekordstort stöd för populismen och en tredjedel av regeringarna är inkluderade eller stöder, är beronde av populisternas stöd och extremehögerns stöd. Vi ser också i brexit att en stor del av debatten handlar om främlingsfientlighet och har en säkerhetspolitikt dimension på det viset. Jag undrar också rai vad regeringens målsättningar inom Europa är. På vilket stöder avtalet med Turkiet om handel med flyktingar, som alla internationella pinesorganisationer har kritiserat, det att vi nu poängterar pineskorätttsavtal och internationella folkrätten? Jag önskar att ricksdage i sitt svar kommer
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u45	Mr President! A little bit first with Mr Haavisto on the same subject. Sweden states that it is on the Alliansfriht line but at the same time builds agreements with a number of NATO partner countries, while at the same time concluding a host nation support agreement with NATO, as has been the case. We also need to move ahead with Sweden in this direction. I would like to ask whether we, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, are following this matter with Sweden in such a way that nothing so far-reaching can happen that would change this situation. I would like to ask whether, when there is a need to coordinate, as was the case in Goldibank, some foreign policy views between Finland and Sweden could be considered as having a very active role in this cooperation structure in terms of division of labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u46	Mr President! These agreements may need to be opened up a little more precisely in such a way that Finland also has a very large stack of various cooperation and mutual understanding documents in the field of defence with many countries. In fact, these Swedish agreements are not state treaties, the United States does not even do so, nor do they contain elements which are binding and binding on the military alliance. Instead, they contain the same things that we in Finland must of course strive to ensure, that is, that we have access to the best possible technology, to the knowledge and know-how that such cooperation provides. In this respect, I do not see any reason to dramatise this, but we must be involved in this on the basis of our own interests.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u47	Let us take the representatives of Haavisto, Terho, Savola, Heinäluoma, and then Minister Soin's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u48	Mr President! This is also an interesting question because reference has been made here to the fact that in Sweden, as in all democracies of course, elections bring new leadership, may change thinking, may change priorities. In the course of this government — and I thank you for that, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Defence, Prime Minister — when you have worked very well with Sweden to extend the area of cooperation to the various sectors, I think it would be good if this cooperation were to be recorded and the objectives of its cooperation and the types of cooperation it is to which governments sometimes change, in the sense that governments change here. It would also be good for transparency.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u49	Mr President! For my part, too, thank the Minister for his report. The report gives a clear picture of the change in the security environment and Finland's objectives in it. You pointed out strongly that only change is permanent and the change has continued to accelerate and that the change has not necessarily gone for the better for Finland. In particular, the report says that changes must in future be more predictable than they have been so far, which is, of course, an important part of preparing for very different possible situations that we can face. The report also highlights, as one of these priorities, the strengthening of the resilience of the crisis, which I believe is very important: we find it very difficult to anticipate the kinds of situations we may encounter, so we also need a very general resilience of the crisis. But, in particular, I would like to ask about the hybrid centre mentioned in the report: what is it about, and whether it relates to these very issues?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u50	Madam President! This report creates a realistic picture of the current situation. Indeed, tension in Europe has increased, and that is by no means a good thing. But, of course, an important part of our foreign policy is also to signal the threshold that no one should ever plan to come here, and that, of course, culminates in our cornerstones, the general military service and hence the wartime forces based on reserve people, the defence of Finland as a whole. An essential part of this is our will to defend the country, which is naturally high in Finland. But the mere will is not enough, the ability is also needed, and the economic challenges we face are tough. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, referring to our economy, that in this and next decade we will have large purchases in addition to our normal defence budget. How do you see the preparation for this and the assurance of this so-called separate funding, of which much
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u51	Mr President! The term 'crisis awareness' has been used in the economic debate, and the same term must also apply here on the international side. Here on the international side, I did wonder whether there is a risk that this crisis awareness point is already going beyond the fact that this painting of threats is being done so effectively that it upsets people's basic sense of safety at the same time as all decision-makers are getting the real information that we are not dealing with any acute threat to Finland, nor any acute threat to EU countries. It is up to the responsible government to consider how to put words in such a way that there will be no excesses or misunderstandings, and that is also, of course, a task for all of us. And when it comes to thanks, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and also to thank Mr Kanerva for having dealt with the position of the Assembly in a very moderate way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u52	And Minister Soini, three minutes from the podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u53	Mr President! There are 50 answers, so now you can pick in three minutes. I'll start with the opposition leader, Antti Rinte. A very good question: what rule-based approach? In addition to what we have mentioned, of course, the OSCE, international law, the International Court of Human Rights, the Council of Europe — all of these are of the utmost importance in addition to what has been mentioned. This rule-based approach is in the interests of a small country. Thank you, Mr Kanerva. He made it clear that soldiers, people die in Europe. It's not intimidation and creating threats when you say something like this. I do not quite understand what I said in the previous speech: 'This does not mean that we are keeping up threats — let alone stirring up conflicts. On the contrary, stability and the strengthening of security require that our policy is clear in advance and that our strong defence capability is known to others." I'm ready to tell you and repeat this a lot of times. A couple more times, I'll tell you about Brexit. I am surprised, however, that neither the government nor the opposition have all understood that this is not something that can be used. If the Brexit comes, it'll take at least two years, maybe three years. Why don't we wait all the time? Well, of course we shouldn't wait. And even if there is no Brexit, Europe has now changed during this debate, already. And then, when we looked, there were questions about Britain and EU defence: It has been quite clear that many countries, including the big France and Germany, are prepared to go further into the common defence of the EU. Britain, on the other hand, is not. Britain believes that NATO is the most effective way to do this. This is very important. Then there is the cooperation between Sweden and Finland on UTP and its strengthening. It is a government priority and it is also my own priority, and this is being taken forward in concrete terms: Baltic Sea, peace mediation, human rights, Arctic. On this Arctic issue, I would like to say — yesterday I made a six-minute speech in Luxembourg on the third Arctic Communication — that it was received there, that it was reached in conclusions. Here are the answers for Mr. Elo and many others. It is extremely important to us to have funding and investment, but also to take the environment into account. This is very important. And then about this saber tilting. I spoke to Secretary of State Steinmeier yesterday. There is a little more to it than this statement. Among other things, there are the term "total war" used in the internal debate in Germany and around it, and it is a term that needs to be corrected, and Steinmeier corrected it in this way, which I think was well done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u57	Mr President! It is great that this sort of security policy report has been completed, and the discussion here in the Chamber shows it. For ourselves, at least this is an important paper to support this stabilisation policy. So I ask the Foreign Minister: what do you think the main purpose of this stabilisation policy is? I personally see that the Finns are doing a common policy of peace-keeping, as you have just said. This report also gives support to the fact that it is good to live and talk with our neighbours in harmony, that is to say, this also creates this European stability policy. It is also good for Finns to recognise the resilience of the crisis and prepare for what is well answered in this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u58	Mr President! Some Members of Parliament have criticised the straightforward way in which the report deals with Russia and possible threats. Similarly, you can ask if the threat disappears if you close your eyes. A realistic description of the current situation and a recognition of the facts are not incitement to threats. We need to talk about things with the right names in order to ensure Finland’s safety in a comprehensive way. The report defines a strong change in the operating environment of Finland’s foreign and security policy. According to the report, the use of military force or threats against Finland cannot be ruled out. The deteriorating security situation in the Baltic Sea should be taken seriously. The Government considers that the presence and functioning of NATO will stabilise the security situation. It should be noted that the creation of stability in the Baltic Sea region can also mean that Finland joins NATO.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u59	President! As many speeches prove, the Baltic Sea is timely. Experience proves that lasting peace can be based either on one supremacy or on the balance of all. There is no domination of one in the Baltic Sea, but with the increased military exercises, the balance has been shaken. I would ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: could Finland be proactive, for example, together with Sweden, to organise some sort of'mini-Baltic-Etyk' meeting to alleviate geopolitical tension in the Baltic Sea region?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u60	Mr President! It is certainly right to talk about Russia's aggression, and Russia's actions in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine are totally reprehensible, but it is very strange that we should then go along with security-related projects such as Fennovoima. Here I see a contradiction. And what has also been forgotten from this debate – although we have fine words here, there is much talk of promoting democracy and so on – is that the bad things about Finland's foreign policy include these Turkey-EU agreements and their support. So the EU and Finland's desire to leave refugees on the shoulders of others has led to truly shameful situations. For example: Turkey—The EU Treaty strengthens and emphasises the current regime in Turkey, and EU action undermines the position of those Turks who believe in European values such as plurality;
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u61	Mr President! Foreign and security policy has traditionally been a form of parliamentary cooperation. This matter has been dealt with in good agreement. It is important that the traditional and national line of foreign policy conducted under the leadership of the President of Finland continues to be maintained. Continuity in these matters is only a good thing. As a member of this UTP monitoring group, I ask Minister Soin and the Prime Minister: the guidelines of the monitoring group would have been able to reach an even deeper conclusion. Now we're running out of time for the follow-up team. Minister Soini said that the UTP guidelines would be included in the defence policy report. Will the report also include the money: 1.2 billion for ships, 5-10 billion for aircraft and other financial pressures on the Defence Forces? The Internal Security Report was only submitted to Parliament, and 98 million are missing from that report in order to achieve the objectives of the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u62	Mr President! In my opinion, Mr Vanhanen in this very first speech, in the group speech, described quite well the ultimate purpose of this foreign and security policy, that people could live their own lives in peace. That is why we must be able to agree with our neighbours on how we can live together. This also gives us a pretty good grasp of the purpose of making every effort to promote stability and in every way to build peace in the world. And this is not rocket science, after all, a rather simple basic setting. Then our analysis may differ as to whether we think that this should be pursued through NATO or through our own credible defence and universal military service. I personally believe that we must take care of our own defence and continue outside the military alliance. Of course, that choice also means something. Above all, that means that the resources must be in order for us to be credible in maintaining our own defence, and that is something that we all must certainly take into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u63	Mr President! Finland’s security and internal development are in many ways linked to global development and have been well established at the latest during the refugee crisis. Development policy is an integral and integral part of Finland's foreign and security policy. Development cooperation and the funds allocated to it are important for the target regions, but they are also important for Finland itself, because we are not living in a vacuum. The advantage of a small country is a functioning, strong and effective UN system. Unfortunately, Finland has cut the funding of UN organisations strongly along with other development cooperation cuts. UN organisation cuts weaken Finland’s international position and make the work done by the UN more difficult. Hopefully, even some of these cuts in organisations could be cancelled under the leadership of the new Minister for Development, and hopefully Finland will support the development and strengthening of the UN system. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister about this: what do you see as the most important development of the UN system?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u64	Mr President! We live in a world where, in the Middle East and Africa, but partly in Europe, security is a distant matter. Terrorism, with its troops, has done a brutal job on the children to adulthood. And as long as stability and democracy are lacking in these countries, as long as we have this uncontrolled immigration and feeling of insecurity, there will be incalculable distress. It is a question of what we can do about this. Secondly, there is no threat to Finland at the moment. I believe that Russia is still our good neighbour and trading partner with sanctions. But we have to ask because, last night, a Finnish member of the European Council has suggested that we should now abandon the Russian sanctions: is this the will of the government? And in the end, I believe that Finland is a non-aligned country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u65	Mr President! Unlike North Korea, here in Finland, perhaps the best aspect of the multi-party system and free democracy is that one can and may also express his own views in the field of foreign and security policy. However, there was a time — the representative of the Parliament, Mr Arhinmäki and I were barely in kicks — when the ax was immediately swinging even in this Chamber if he tried to offer his own options and deviate from the mainstream, i.e. power. Fortunately, the situation is different now. The RKP has a recent decision in the context of party democracy on NATO membership, which I understand is also largely in line with the coalition. So now is the place to bring up this option, a place where all the flowers of the flowering power are given flowers. It is not a place to review a permit or a line; it is a place for open debate, open civil dialogue, time and place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u66	Mr President! I remember this time very well, because I was also one of those who received the so-called honour of writing against the Soviet Union as editor-in-chief of the nuclear magazine, but that is that. However, this freedom of expression and free debate involves saying that we can disagree with the RKP and we can also agree that the line that the RKP now represents in this matter does not correspond to the interests of Finland's security, but can put Finland at risk. — I am sorry to say that we have such a fundamental difference of opinion on this issue, our sincerity, I hope, and I do not doubt it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u67	Three more four replies and then two or three minutes for the Prime Minister, as much as he needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u68	Mr President! This report extends until 2025, and when I looked, the word 'climate change' is mentioned once. I therefore ask that, when new situations are emerging with climate change, where heat and depletion of water resources can cause significant movements of peoples towards new residential areas, including Europe, whether this possible movement of peoples by climate change in no way came into being, neither in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs nor in this group that was involved, once thought of this being certainly the next big historic movement of nations without violence or other conflicts. But this is especially to be expected from the African continent when we look at the pace of climate change. I think this would have earned its own place in this whole safety report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u69	Allow me to add the following: Mr Kiuru, Mr Katainen and Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto. Then the Prime Minister's response.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u70	Mr President! Questions have been raised about the timing of the report and, of course, there are questions about a possible application for NATO membership, which is left open in the report. My question is: is it better for ministers to apply for membership in a state of deep peace, or what if it were sought in a situation of crisis? In my own interpretation, in a situation of crisis, applying for membership would, in the worst case scenario, be the last negative signal that could lead to further action. We know that it takes between one and two years to process the application for membership. It must be dealt with in all the parliaments of the NATO countries. It's an unimaginably long time. Have we agreed on some accelerated timetables?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u72	Mr President! There are many interested parties in exploiting the Arctic's natural resources. There has been talk of a race to the Arctic region, and many speeches have also been made here about the Arctic. Unfortunately, the general limits set in this report for the exploitation of the Arctic are very broad compared to the current Arctic strategy. Even Minister Soini said, in my opinion, very faintly that the environment in the Arctic is being taken into account. However, respect for the vulnerable nature of the Arctic region should be the starting point on which the potential exploitation of the Arctic region can ever be built. The Finnish Arctic Strategy for 2013 specifically refers to respect for the Arctic environment and the fact that economic development takes place within the framework of the environmental framework. Finland shall: from 2017 to 2019, the Arctic Council Presidency, and in this context it would be interested to hear from the Prime Minister whether Finland is prepared to promote:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u75	Yes, and also in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u76	Mr President! Unfortunately, relations between the EU and Russia are partly at a dead end, which also undermines the climate of security. It is good to remember, however, that we have a good history in practical cooperation with Russia and, among other things, in border programmes, where Russia has been enthusiastically involved in the past years. The need to promote that dialogue between the EU and Russia would indeed now be a crying need. One important plug is the economic sanctions imposed on Russia — they do so — which, however, should not prevent relations between the EU and Russia in the way they are now doing. I would ask Mr Soin: what does the debate between the European Union and Russia look like now, and do those sanctions work as expected?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u77	However, Mr Tuppurainen, and then the Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u78	Mr President! The report has its indisputable merit, but I am surprised at this time and I now refer to this vote on Thursday in the UK on EU membership and possible EU separation. Minister Soini, you said that everything will change, and yes, everything will change, but somehow you managed to present this Brexit in the light that, as if nothing were going to change. I will wonder whether the government now has an entirely up-to-date assessment of the impact of the possible difference between the UK and the EU — including the security situation in Finland. Britain is an important factor in the EU, which is a security community for us, it is also an important partner for us, and, more importantly, it is a very important provider of the EU's transatlantic link. Now, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, do you have plan B? Do you have a plan to update this report on foreign and security policy in the light of the unfortunate possibility that the EU will break up with the departure of Great Britain?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u79	And now, Prime Minister, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u80	Mr President! The Foreign Minister answered a very large number of questions. Some questions remained open. Firstly, Mr Kiuru, there are certainly no agreements on anything, neither secret nor others. Military non-alignment and its continuation is the government's line. Mr Salolainen, you asked what this could be about cooperation with the EU. That cooperation with the EU is the first thing that reminds me that we have a common army. It does not have to be that; it must be the preparation for hybrid threats, cybersecurity, material cooperation, defence market development, even development cooperation in that area, the fight against terrorism, the exchange of information, the exchange of situation pictures, the deepening of military security of supply arrangements and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u85	I understand that the Secretary of State would like to say a few words. Two minutes, okay?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u86	Thank you, Mr President. This Brexis is my favorite subject, too. I will say it again and frankly: this government does not place Finland's interests, Finland's foreign and security policy solutions and our own policies under a referendum in one country. It's up to us. Of course it affects Europe, but it affects two years, it can affect five years. How long should I have waited, Congressman Tuppurainen? Like this Samuel Beckett drama, Goddot is expected, and Goddot never came. So we're clear on this. Then, when different-looking nominations are taken, the Finnish Foreign Minister, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and others constantly offer Finnish people for different kinds of tasks. It is our duty to have them, to be in Afghanistan, to be in Macedonia, and to be looking for new ones all the time. It is the effectiveness that we are certainly striving for. Finland is a non-military country, but Finland is not neutral in the sense it has been. Finland is a member of the EU and part of the West. That's the way it is. Then on the Russian sanctions: they will be extended for six months. Yesterday, when there was a meeting of foreign ministers, it was not discussed at all in the big room, it went through Coreper. Of course, we want sanctions to be lifted, and they will be lifted as soon as the Minsk agreement is implemented. Until then, you can't get rid of them. That is why we need international cooperation here. And then the Arctic matter — of course, it is extremely important to us. The U.S. is now president. Now the United States has a government that wants to do constructive work in the Arctic. We have no way of knowing what kind of government the United States will have after the presidential election. Should we wait again for our Arctic policy to become when there is a new president in the United States? No, my friends, this isn't how it works.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u87	Mr President! It's a short focus. Since it has been said in this Chamber that Finland must now remain outside the military alliances, have I misread the report when I understand that this option and the possibility that Finland is also involved in a military alliance is a realistic, real option in the event of a more worrying situation in the Baltic Sea or in our security environment? That is how I have read the report, and in some way I would also find it tactically odd if we now announced that Finland is and will remain out of the military alliance forever. Have I misunderstood the text of the report, Mr. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u89	When the chairman of the Committee on Defence asks that question, I hope that one of the ministers, in this case the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will answer it. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u90	Mr President! It reads clearly and clearly: Finland is currently a non-military country but maintains the possibility of applying if it wishes to do so in its own context and in the event of a change in the security environment. And it is also welcomed that NATO's open door policy continues, which means that NATO can take on new members. At the moment it is Montenegro, which is in that pipeline; so at the moment Finland is not in the pipeline, but it is not excluded.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u92	Mr President! The Foreign Minister spoke about that situation in Ukraine and quite rightly said that when the Minsk agreement was completed, these sanctions could be lifted quickly. From the environmental point of view of the Baltic Sea, it is important that tensions should be brought to an end, and this meeting of the Minsk agreement is also important in that respect. The same applies, of course, to the export of milk by Finnish farmers, dairy farmers, and then there are problems, especially on the side of pigmeat, at the moment. There is a message from various sides, from the point of view of Kiev at the moment, that there is not a great deal of willingness there either to fulfil the terms of the Minsk agreement. And now I ask you, Foreign Minister Soini: has Finland done something about the interests of Finland and has Finland done something to promote the readiness of Kiev to fulfil the conditions of the Minsk Treaty? That is the duty of both Russia and Ukraine to comply with those conditions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u93	Mr President! Here, the Prime Minister outlined Finland's objectives as regards this defence cooperation within the EU and its deepening. However, it would also be desirable for Finland to pay attention to this internal security within the EU, the unity of the Union and internal cohesion. This line of deepening defence cooperation seems somewhat contradictory when it is done at a time like this, when the EU is experiencing an extraordinary phase of transformation, when this international cooperation is being called into question by the citizens and when the legitimacy of the European Union in the eyes of the citizens is very weak. My interpretation is that this Brexit vote is also about the reaction of citizens to the policy pursued within the EU, i.e. it is not to be seen that the EU has been able to deliver on the promises made to citizens, for example, to safeguard the well-being of citizens, but it is seen that tax competition has continued, wage competition has continued and, despite the long talk of a tax haven economy, there has been no international solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u94	And the replies to the representatives of Löfström, Terho and Tölli, in this order.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u95	Värderade Herr Talman! Jag vill först och främst ge en euge åt utrikesminister Soini och regeringen för en balanserad och tydlig utrikespolitisk redogörelse. Som Ålands ledamot vill jag betona Ålands demilitarising och neutralising, något regeringen också tar upp i redogörelsen med följande skrivning: "Åland har en etablerad internationalellrätslig ställning, vilket inte Hindrar en intensifying av Finlands milittara samarbete i Europeiska unionen och internationalella organisationer och med de nordiska lännderna." Det är är bra. Det är viktigt att betona att Ålands demilitariserade och neutriserade status inte påverkas av ett finländskt fördjupat försvarssamarbete med Sverige, EU och NATO. Ålandsexemplet är också en modell som visar hur man framgångsrikt kan lösa svåra conflicter på ett fredligt sätt. Det är en modell som Finland kan varaa stolt över och också kunde föra fram som lösningar för andra regioner i världen som har conflicter. Jag vill därför fråga utrikesminister Timo Soini om man från utrikesministeriet activare tänker lyfta fram Ålandsexemplet som en möjlig modell för att lösa conflicter på olika håll i världen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u96	Mr President! The Minister has received a large number of questions here, but I would still like to ask the next opportunity to return to what I originally asked about this hybrid centre: what is going on at the hybrid centre mentioned in this report? In addition to that, I would like to point out that this Brexit, which is now a matter that has been dealt with several times here, is no longer a Brexit, but an equivalent which the Minister himself raised in his speech on the fact that if we wait for Brexit, on which we already know that this kind of vote is coming and that it will have consequences in any case, or if we wait for the presidential elections in the United States, for which we know they are coming, and we know that they will have consequences, then I would ask you to clarify whether the presidential elections in the United States and the possible election of Donald Trump are being taken into account in any way, and if so, how they are taken into account in this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u97	Mr President! Our security policy environment has changed dramatically and is changing. However, in this situation there are a few very important principles, and one is that we are very well aware of the situation. When we talk about the recognition of facts, you have to know the facts that you can recognize them. A very important issue and the strength of Finnish security policy is that we have always had a reasonably good consensus. Then that policy will also have an impact. The principle of sustainability since Paasikivi's time is also that Finland does not pose a threat to its neighbours and Finland also forms a platform for threats to neighbours. That is important in this alliance debate. A very important principle is that we always have a credible defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u98	Mr President! With regard to the report, I think it is important to raise this issue of secession. It is the best security policy for Finland. It is far too much now that this war rhetoric has been highlighted in the debate, so that I fully agree with Mr Heinäluoma in that respect. Politicians and soldiers who are concerned with this type of armed security have been given an over-emphasis in the security policy debate. So it's time for a counterattack. We need to think very carefully now about how to move forward through this relaxation. I am pleased that, together with non-aligned Sweden, we can best contribute to the security of the North and the Baltic Sea.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u99	Mr President! It is symbolic of this time that foreign and security policy is being dealt with as a whole. After the Cold War, the tolerance phase is over, and the borders of Europe are being drawn again with weapons. Only rarely in the history of Finland have the portfolios of foreign and defence ministers been heavier than they are now. Many aspects of the report are easy to agree with, but its emphasis can be criticised. For example, climate change is also a key security issue for Finland, as Mr Laukkanen said. The Syrian civil war has already been called the first climate war. Secondly, there has been a new form of conflict between war and peace, which is characterised by a multifaceted breakdown of the opposing party's ability to act. Knowledge and truth in particular have become a battlefield, and that battle is also taking place in Finland. That is why independent media is so important for a small country such as Finland, a central part of the defence of hybrid warfare. The real media is the best weapon in the fight against the disputers of fake media.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u100	Mr President! I think it is important that Finland adheres to non-alignment. Now Foreign Minister Soini is speaking at the mouth of Stubb — last night, Stubb wanted to make amends separately in Gold Beach to talk about not belonging to the military alliance. This is more apparent in our debate: if you think about the speeches that have been made here by the RKP and the Coalition Party, they sound very similar to what the Liberals and Moderates have said in the debate on Gold Beach. The Swedish representative of the moderates — the local assembly — the vice-chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs also attacked Finland's foreign and security policy, questioning Finland's dialogue with Russia, our neighbour. Although we disagree with Russia, there must be cooperation with our neighbour, and it is good that the President of the Republic, Mr Niinistö, is having a debate with Mr Putin. I wish this kind of Swedish uho, what little has come through the Coalition Party and the RKP speeches, would not expand in Finnish
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u101	Mr President! This excellent report states, among other things, on such a broad basis, that cooperation in foreign and security policy has become more difficult in many respects, but at the same time it also states that there is still a variety of forms of cooperation on issues such as the Arctic, which have not been affected by the tense situation. That's how it's supposed to be. As President of the Barents Regional Council, I have often said that we must work together in the Barents region, forgetting these tensions in foreign policy. On the contrary, we must try to intensify this cross-border cooperation. With regard to this Barents and the Arctic region, I would certainly like Finland to become a stronger Arctic President, and I understand that in those answers Mr Soini also points to this in many ways. But when you look at the Arctic section of this report, I ask: how comprehensive is the Government's vision of action in this contribution to the Arctic?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u102	Mr President! Mr Pelkonen referred to the report on terrorism, which, of course, is seen as a significant security threat to Finland. In this context, I would like to say that the government has taken decisive action, for example, with regard to dual citizens. The possibility of nullifying Finnish citizenship from the dual citizens involved in terrorist activities is becoming apparent. The investigation of the amendment will begin in the autumn following the criminalisation of participation in the activities of an organisation classified as a terrorist organisation by the UN and the EU, travel abroad for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence and the financing of such travel. I would like to point out here that Finland too has the full potential, within the framework of the current law, to prevent the entry of so-called radical preachers who come here to spread their own view of Islamic extremism. I would like the government to look into this and, as far as possible, to try to prevent such individuals from entering Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u103	Mr President! There is nothing Finland can do about geography. In political terms, however, the long line in Finnish history has been moving towards the reference group to which we have wanted to belong, i.e. among the Western democracies. This was achieved in an era of autonomy, in which we gradually sought greater autonomy, finally gained independence, during the Cold War, in a very tight political space, we sought greater integration with the democratic countries that respect human rights. In the '90s, when NATO's door would have been open for us easily, it would have been natural to take this step too — now it is one step more difficult. In this current situation, Nordic cooperation is becoming even more important. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: how will Finland ensure that Sweden does not make faster movements than Finland, for example in relation to NATO cooperation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u104	Mr President! As always in this area, this has been almost all male panel. Of course, we boys are interested in different tanks and other things, and that is why this debate too has been rather focused on this hard side of security policy, and less has been said about what is the most important part of the European Union, namely the so-called soft security policy and its economic policy. After all, Finland has traditionally played a constructive role in the EU, but now it has fallen apart. And I would remind you that last summer Finland presented a solution in which Greece would have been separated from the euro area. The unrest resulting from this solution, in view of the situation of refugees, had not been resolved much or less, and it is fortunate that we have not fallen into a similar situation with regard to Brexit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u105	Mr President! I had an exceptional opportunity to follow this weekend's foreign and security policy debate through the Swedish press. There has been talk of a Swedish threat, which is visible here in Finland. It didn't show up in Sweden. On the contrary, one thing was raised over others, and it was Finland's Russian expertise and a special relationship with Russia, from which Sweden has much to learn from Finland, according to the Swedish media. We have a long neighbourly relationship with Russia, we also have a long geographical border, and for these reasons perhaps we ourselves consider this special relationship with Russia to be sometimes a little too obvious. Mr Soini, you have a long experience of monitoring foreign policy in many different roles and I therefore ask you how this special relationship with Russia has changed with the joint sanctions of the European Union and how, on the other hand, we could develop it in the direction of promoting democracy, peaceful relations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u106	Mr President! I welcome the long curve in this report on foreign and security policy and the continuity that Finland has had on these issues. Of course, when the time is quite difficult and the power policy has made it possible to return to Europe and even to Europe and our neighbouring regions, it is noteworthy and important, however, that when we condemn acts contrary to Russia's international law, this report also takes into account the fact that there is always a need to maintain contacts between ordinary citizens and the interaction that can be done at the level of non-governmental organisations. And I would also like to refer to the knowledge of Russia that has also been raised in this previous speech — the fact that we understand what is happening in our neighbours requires that we have knowledge and know-how about it. The Minister mentioned that he was there at the EU Foreign Ministers' meeting. I would have asked about this Arctic information centre when this report also refers to the hybrid knowledge centre: is the Arctic information centre still there?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u107	Mr President! The report under discussion identifies Finland's priorities, one of which highlights this future of the Arctic region. Last week, there was a conference of parliamentarians in the Arctic region, where we were also signed by Mr Kulmuni, Mr Kulmala and Mr Elovaara. It was arranged in Russia in Ulan-Udessa. In his speech, the Minister for Foreign Affairs commendably raised Arctic issues and also this meeting of ministers yesterday in Luxembourg — and that is good — but in order for Finland to be ready for the Arctic Council Presidency starting next year and also for Arctic cooperation to be developed at EU level, and to get those shoulders out of the European Union, we must also take the lead in Arctic matters. I would now like to ask Foreign Minister Soin, on what timetable this Government Programme entry into this implementation plan in the Arctic
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u108	At this stage, I will give the floor to the representatives of the Deputies, Mr Hoskonen and Mr Jalonen and then the Minister. A little longer for Soin, let's say five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u109	Mr. Speaker! I intervene in this intimidation that Sweden would make rapid movements without informing or caring about Finland. I think this kind of talk is irresponsible. Today, we have been through this issue with the Social Democrats, and it is quite clear that the Swedish Social Democrats do not make any such moves, and they do not believe that the bourgeois government would do that either. That is why, in the past, under this government and under previous governments, we have always gone through with Sweden the principle that we consult each other whenever there are important security issues, and we do not surprise each other — we can end up with different outcomes, that is clear. But does Mr Rydman now want to say that we can no longer rely on the Swedish Moderates in this respect on his brother's party, but that they should do otherwise?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u111	Mr President! This report on foreign and security policy is being reviewed in a situation which, of course, contains a lot of threats, but we can actually be calm in our minds because the Finnish foreign and security policy has been long-term, peaceful, unsettled and must continue to be so. We must remember the geopolitical situation in Finland on the world map at the moment. We have always had good relations with the East, as such they should be maintained, and certainly we should not go on such a sabering line. Finland must ensure that our defence is at a credible level, we have good equipment, but just as necessary is that we have good relations with our neighbours and Finland always has them to offer to both sides, to all our neighbours, to good relations with Russia, among others. We can be a consultant elsewhere in the world and provide that knowledge to others. To a policy of confrontation that I have recently observed in quite a few speeches, that there is such a thing, hopefully we will not leave but will keep our senses and, above all, good relations — friends close, enemies far away.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u112	I would like to give Mr Rydman a reply, even though the reaction to the speech by Mr Tuomioja was a little late.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u113	Thank you, Mr President! This was a bilateral debate with Mr Kanerva on foreign and security policy, which slowed me down a little bit. But let me be more specific about my speech, to which the representative referred. I am not just talking about what the Swedish opposition is doing at the moment, but, in fact, the current Swedish Social Democratic Government has explicitly changed its policy step by step, quite specifically, in the direction that, in Sweden, the attitude towards NATO membership, even full membership, is gradually becoming more positive — but if not full membership, then there will be an increasing tendence of cooperation in that direction too. On this issue of cooperation, we should not be trampled on in any way, and on this I asked Mr Soin how to ensure that Sweden does not take the fall in relation to where Finland is. If we don't, we'll be in a bad place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u114	Mr President! On several occasions I have had a debate with the current Swedish Prime Minister on what is Sweden's foreign and security policy line in the future and what is also the Socialist Party's view of the future in relation to NATO. And, as Mr Tuomioja said, we have a very clear idea of what is happening in Sweden, and there in Sweden it is happening that, as Mr Tuomioja has just described, there is a consultation with the Finns. There is no doubt there about the position of the Socialist Party. I would now like to ask Foreign Minister Soin: have you had such discussions on the future of Swedish foreign policy from a foreign and security policy perspective, and what is their content?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u115	Before the Secretary of State, Mr. Kopra... Excuse me, Mr Jalonen — excuse me, Mr Jalonen — and then the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u117	Let us now give the Foreign Minister five minutes, here from the floor, and then there will be a number of replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Let's start with who's stirring up and what's stirring up. The government won't stir anything up. If you create a threat image and then you start resisting it, there is nothing the government can do about it. The report states quite clearly that Finland's foreign and security policy has a key objective of avoiding military conflict. You can't say this in this clearer Finnish.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u125	I have also drawn up replies to the representatives of Häkkänen, Andersson, Karimäki and, once again, Kopra — he is not here, at least at the moment — and Mikkonen. Let's take these.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u126	Mr President! Just as Mr Soini well said here, this report is very realistic. Those threats to security policy will not go away if they are not openly and openly recognised. It will certainly be based on a good foreign and security policy debate, that threats are openly acknowledged and drawn conclusions from it. This report also takes into account the new threats and approaches, the security policy challenges of economic, technological and other interdependencies. Now, at the end of this period, this issue of Brexit has also been raised significantly. I would like to see an even stronger analysis of the security policy report in Parliament, which also means holding a referendum in the context of Brexit on a different level of debate and the level of decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u127	Mr President! I would also like to express my surprise at this debate by Mr Rydman on the Swedish Government's line. The Swedish Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven, took the floor on Sunday in the discussions on Goldiranta and was unusually clear when he described the official foreign policy line of the Swedish Government, the Swedish State. He made it clear there that it is based on military non-alignment and that NATO membership is not up-to-date for Sweden. I personally think it is important, although there is cooperation in defence policy, that both Sweden and Finland make their own independent decisions, as far as the big and small foreign policy guidelines are concerned. But now that this cooperation has been emphasised throughout the spring, I myself interpret Löfven's speech as giving a strong basis and basis for Finland and Sweden to cooperate, which is based on military non-alignment and defence cooperation between countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u128	Mr President! Minister Soini said that threats and conflicts should not be fomented, and this is the case. I think we are now too much on NATO's side, but without NATO security guarantees. I am not in favour of NATO membership, nor, therefore, of deepening cooperation. Friends must be close to the EU and the Nordic countries. Representative Tuomioja spoke very sensibly about the need not to provoke provocation in the Baltic Sea region and that Finland should emphasise the dialogue and confidence-building activities in the Baltic Sea region. It is a sensible line to promote peace in the EU. This debate has highlighted the fact that Finland has taken the initiative to explore the establishment of a centre of expertise focusing on hybrid threats here in Finland, an EU centre of expertise. The structures and patterns of its cooperation have already been discussed here. But I'd ask the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u129	One last response to Mr Mikkonen, and if the Foreign Minister wishes to say a word again, of course, and then we will move on to the actual list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u130	Mr President! It is clear that Russia's isolation is not in anyone's interest, and just as the report states, Finland's action is based on the common Russian guidelines of the European Union, but at the same time Finland's aim is to maintain stable and effective relations with Russia. It is particularly important to ensure that bilateral discussions and exchanges take place, in particular between citizens, organisations, municipalities and public authorities. Now there are some worrying features that also this kind of grass-roots activity has decreased. The report also states that Finland's energy cooperation with Russia is extensive and should be integrated into the development of the EU Energy Union. When the EU Energy Union aims to reduce the Union's energy dependency and increase the use of renewable energy, and we know that Russia uses energy policy as a weapon of security policy, what else can this policy mean other than that Finland should reduce energy dependence on the eastern neighbour and invest in domestic energy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u131	And, Minister of Foreign Affairs, would you mind if we had two or three minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u132	Thank you. — Here, the bare, clean hand man of peace, the military-going corporal. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the government line and my own line is to do all that Finland can live in peace, live a good life and have a good life for our children. I would like to thank the great Chamber of Parliament for an excellent debate and a debate. It is a good thing that the government is being challenged. But it is up to the government again to set out clearly what is then taken together. I would like to emphasise that this is the unanimous position of the Committee on Foreign and Security Policy, chaired by the President of the Government and the Republic. So this is not the position of a single minister, not of a single party, but of a common position between the government and the President. Of course, the opposition is making a valuable contribution here. I was chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for four years last year and I did everything I could to ensure that the reports were unanimous. That's when they were, by the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u135	Thank you. — To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u136	Mr President! Security won't get better by itself. Armedly, the challenges of modern security are not met. One of the major threats to human security is climate change, global poverty and non-participation, the vulnerability of information networks, and extremist violence and racism. All of these have major safety effects that cannot be combated with weapons. Finland must genuinely support those actors in the world who can use soft force to reduce the importance of armaments security. These include, in particular, the World Organisation with its sub-organisations, the Organisation for Co-operation with the OSCE and the EU providing economic cooperation. The security policy report that has been in the debate today leaves regrettably limited the resources to prepare for these threats. For example, development cooperation, crisis management and UN support are urgently needed to prevent the government's emphasis on refugee prevention, but it is of these that the government has cut record. Minister for Foreign Affairs Timo Soin's solution is to promote the effectiveness of the UN system. As far as refugee status is concerned, Mr Soini rightly described at the occasion of the publication of the report that operating with mere consequences does not lead to permanent solutions for migration management. However, record cuts in development cooperation are flagrantly at odds with this analysis by Foreign Minister Soin. Mr President! The European Union is Finland's most important safety reference group alongside the Nordic countries. The EU would have a great opportunity to contribute to the security of the continent as a whole by returning to its roots as a peace project aimed at preventing future wars through economic cooperation. EU membership is also accompanied by a key element of solidarity and assistance. The current EU, which maintains unemployment through cutting policies and converts people fleeing the war, does not represent the EU's original idea. Nor is there any complete certainty about the future of the Union when there is a threat that integration will be undermined by economic difficulties, nationalism and xenophobia. The British referendum on EU membership is indicative of the direction of the Union and, therefore, of the future of Finland. The government should have taken this into account and postponed the report until after the referendum. That was the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Defence and the monitoring group. Mr President! The most natural thing for Finland is to remain a non-aligned country, to remain outside NATO. NATO represents a power policy in Europe, which is carried out even more brutally by the current Russian leadership. It must also be understood that reciprocity is part of the nature of the military alliance. As a member of NATO, it would be difficult to refuse requests for support for military campaigns. It remains to be seen what NATO's role in US foreign policy will be after the presidential elections in November. Mr President! The invasion of Crimea and the inciting of war in Eastern Ukraine by the Russian armed forces in violation of international law are totally reprehensible. It is sad and tragic that in Russia geopolitical thinking and the fascination of power have clouded the economic reality of reason. The victims are ordinary citizens, both in Russia and elsewhere in Europe, and the major winners are the arms industry, which receives new orders across Europe. The sanctions imposed by the European Union have been an understandable consequence of Russia's actions. It is better to use euros than weapons. However, sanctions policy cannot resolve the crisis. The normalisation of Russia's relations with the EU is only progressing through compliance with the Minsk Agreement and, once lasting peace is achieved in Ukraine, sanctions can be lifted. Mr President! Sweden is a natural partner for Finland in security policy and there are no obstacles to deepening cooperation with Sweden. Nordic cooperation also enjoys broad support for the people, unlike NATO membership. However, Nordic cooperation should not be linked with the United States or NATO.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u137	Mr President! We are discussing the Government's report on Finland's foreign and security policy. The report gives a comprehensive and understandable picture of the factors affecting our safety. It reflects the prevailing climate both globally, in Europe and in the Baltic Sea region. For some, it may seem threatening, very realistic to me. Our security environment has changed. Predictability has been significantly reduced. Changes take place quickly and without warning. Respect for international law has weakened. Our goal is to safeguard our independence and territorial integrity, improve the safety and well-being of Finns and maintain the functioning of society. Preventing military conflict is a key objective. "The use of military power in Finland is That is what the report says. And again: 'Russia has largely abandoned cooperation-based security and challenges the concept of security in Europe. It has the will and ability to use military force to advance its goals." The purpose of the Defence Union is to prevent wars and crises in advance. There's no point in considering using force against NATO. Neither the Soviet Union nor Russia have directly attacked any NATO country. Finland is a NATO partner country. However, it does not provide us with security guarantees. Members and partners are in a different series. Members are in a shelter, partners are desperately knocking at the door when they need it, and they get sympathy and at best coercive support. This is a lesson from Ukraine and Crimea. Mr President! We dare not say 'no' to NATO, we dare not say 'yes' to NATO. Instead, we say to NATO, "Maybe." According to the report, Finland maintains the possibility of military alliances. However, the time for applying for membership seems always wrong. When the situation is stable and serene, there is no need. If tension increases, then we can consider applying for membership. It's interesting to talk about an option. Membership requires that the application be approved by the Parliament of each of the 28 NATO countries. It is a process lasting between 1 and 2 years. The possibility of an accelerated procedure is uncertain unless secret agreements have been concluded. Our application for NATO membership is perceived as provocative in Russia. It would not be ignored and without counter-reactions, so it has been suggested from the neighbour. In which situation would Finland better act when applying for membership: in a deep situation of peace or in the face of a crisis? Is it conceivable that, in a climate of pressure, it would be easier and more risk-free to apply for membership? That could be the last reason for turning pressure into action. A wise man acts in anticipation. The referendum has been discussed. According to the Constitution, it is advisory. The will of the people must be respected, but is it better to put the matter into an election or a referendum? In many ways, the referendum is problematic. The process takes a long time and during it we are exposed to information, for example. What would be the question in the vote anyway? That's unclear, too. There are countless variations: Do you want Finland to join NATO? Do you want Finland to join NATO only together with Sweden? Should Finland refuse military bases? Or, how to deal with military service? I have nothing against the referendum, quite the contrary. However, it must be ensured that the vote does not jeopardise the objective of Finnish security. The process cannot be more important than the objective itself. That is why I am more inclined to have an application for membership and an agreement in government and parliament without a referendum, and if a referendum is to be held, the best course of action is for the government and Parliament to take a stand on the terms and conditions of membership, followed by a conditional agreement being submitted to the people. The alternative is to accept or reject the agreement. Finland must maintain a dialogue with all directions of the air. Trust comes from communication. I warmly welcome President Putin’s visit to Finland and President Niinistö’s initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u138	Mr. Speaker! This report is the clearest language I have ever read here in my parliamentary term. It is concise and makes very clear what you want to say. As such, I do not talk very much about some of the details of this report. I would like to address two issues which are currently of concern to me, including those of Gold Beach. On 8 December, Sweden signed a letter of intent with the United States aimed at increasing cooperation with the United States in many sectors, in five important sectors in particular. Sweden has a long history of military cooperation and defence cooperation with the United States. We remember that during the Cold War, Sweden had an arrangement with the United States called 'den dolda alliansen' or'secret alliance'. A very thorough investigation has been carried out and documented as it was during the Cold War. Well, now this new letter of intent has been published on these general points. But the question is whether it contains, as it has been claimed, an additional protocol which has not been made public at all. And what is stated in that additional protocol, we do not know about it, but it should be the subject of a Finnish foreign policy to find out whether or not it contains such an additional protocol and, if so, what it says. Relations between Finland and the United States have also been very close in foreign and security policy, due, among other things, to the fact that we have acquired key weapons systems in the United States, such as Hornet machines and then a highly sophisticated weapon system. This has been very sympathetic on the part of the United States that not all these weapons systems have always been sold to allies. This shows that our relations with the United States are confidential and very good. Now I would like to return to this Swedish letter of intent which was concluded and ask Minister Soin: Is there a need for Finland to conclude a similar letter of intent? It is known that we also have a large number of agreements in the area of security policy with the United States, but would there be any reason why we should also have agreements as a ceiling agreement in the same way as Sweden has? And then a supplementary question: would it be possible to have tripartite agreements in which we would have some of the same agreements with Sweden and with the United States? This is the type of debate that has now taken place in various quarters. This should now be considered, and I know that this will be considered by the Finnish administration, but what is the Minister's view on this matter? My second point, which I would like to make briefly, is that I have now addressed this interview statement by the German Foreign Minister, Walter Steinmeier, in Bild am Sonntag, and followed how it has been interpreted and what reactions it has had. I heard earlier in the debates that Minister Soini has called Steinmeier and they have discussed it. This general interpretation is quite adamant, the way this interview has been received. I have now read some of the comments that have been made. He, in other words Steinmeier, criticised very strongly by talking about sabering and war cries, referring to these NATO exercises in Eastern Europe and to the intention to invest more military power there. It has been interpreted as a major attack on NATO policy in Eastern Europe. This is the reaction I have now seen here in the international press and how it has been understood. The question now arises, then, is there something new going on here at the moment, thinking that some economists have said that the Russian economy is beginning to be in order at the moment, that Russia will not be able to cope for a very long time and that it will not be able to make the necessary reforms that should be done there. So the question is, is this Steinmeier's exit before the NATO summit such that it indicates that something is going on now because he also spoke? Now, because of the lack of time, it is not possible to deal with any more of these issues, but I am concerned about such matters at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u139	I will give the answer first to Mr Heinäluoma and then to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u140	Mr President! It is excellent that Mr Salolainen, a highly experienced foreign policy expert, once again raised this opinion by Mr Steinmeier. That was an important speech in terms of how these crises will be resolved. I do not quite understand that some of the people here in Finland are terribly concerned about this speech by Mr Steinmeier, because it was on behalf of diplomacy and harmony. And when he said in his speech that no one imagines that symbolic armor marches on the eastern border of NATO will solve this crisis, that is the correct observation of you. It is not a question of whether they are necessary or necessary; it is a question of making decisions through diplomacy and foreign policy. And this has always been the big line in Finland: emphasis is placed on foreign policy, diplomacy in crisis resolution. And this is the line that Finland should continue to adhere to.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u141	Mr President! I sat in the Foreign Affairs Council yesterday next to Secretary of State Steinmeier. It is, by the way, an excellent season card place, where you can talk a lot about things that look different. I also raised this point, and it is true that this statement caused concern, particularly in the Baltic countries. But I asked him, and he told me the full contents of his statement. Here again, one of the two phrases has been picked, combined arbitrarily. Yes, those sentences are there, but when you read this whole thing, it is not so clear. In addition, many international assessments also have a domestic policy perspective, i.e. domestic consumption. This is also in some respects related to the use of the term 'total war' for some actors in NATO and is such a term which is so negative in German history that Steinmeier responds to this, precisely. I happened to be there when colleagues from Estonia and Latvia asked questions, Not to mention Lithuania. Yes, it was discussed, and then it seemed to work out. Then to this second question by Mr Salolainen: Finland keeps all the possibilities open. At the moment, we do not have the same agreements as Sweden has signed with the USA, but the wise country works in such a way that everything is possible. Not everything is likely to happen, but Finland cannot limit its chances of going out. It's not a wise policy. A wise policy is to take care of Finland's defence capability, the sovereignty and independence of our country, and then do what it requires. Mr President! I am sorry to have to go to another meeting, but I would like to thank Parliament again for a good debate. And the debate will continue in the autumn, and then the good new chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs will certainly follow Parliament's best principles as these reports have been made in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. That's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u142	One more response, Mr Salolainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u143	Mr President! I would still have asked if the minister could be here for a few seconds now — I understand that he has busy things to do — is there something else going on here than just what you can see here. Is there something moving in Ukraine or Russia? We are also talking about the dialogue between the United States and Russia with regard to Ukraine. Is this meant to make up the atmosphere of moving forward on these bigger issues?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u144	Mr President! There have been at least such speeches that, for example, the Normandy Group would meet and possibly a joint meeting with Russia. That, of course, presupposes that there must be a result. We cannot have a non-preliminary meeting that will not produce results. But the incredibly difficult aspect of this conflict is that the EU and many people are always emphasising Normandy and multilateral cooperation and Russia is always saying that Kiev needs to negotiate directly with the separatists. These are opposite tracks, and that's why it's so difficult. One thought I've come to think of: Mr Putin spoke rather conciliatoryly about the European Union. Is this because there's still something left through Obama? I wonder if it would be a good idea to get these things moving through him when you don’t know — Clinton too has traditionally been very strong, not to mention other options. Something like this could be in the background.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u145	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u146	Mr President! The Government's report on foreign and security policy describes the current international environment and is also very realistic about the current situation in Finland. Its best contribution is an honest and simplified analysis of our neighbourly relations, and especially our relationship with NATO and our security cooperation with Sweden. It also sets the foundations and objectives of the long-term perspective for Finland's security in a clear form, in which Finland's main tasks are to avoid military conflict, to have a strong and credible defence of its own, and to be an active actor for peace in a bilateral and multilateral foreign and security policy with the objective of a secure and stable international environment. — Here are the basic princes. The recent change in our operating environment has also created new threats and instability. The international security situation has deteriorated from a European perspective in recent years. It is characterised by the speed and unpredictability of change, as the report states. Mr President! It is this very fact that Finland is a builder of peace and stability and is militarily independent that gives us the opportunity and space to talk about the world's instability in a peaceful and solution-oriented way. As President Obama of the United States recently said, the Nordic social model has international attractiveness and provides a strong basis for strengthening Nordic co-operation in international politics. It is regrettable that dark clouds have come over long-standing peace and good cooperation, particularly from Russia, whose chosen path has led to growing tension and an increase in the military presence of the United States in Europe. Mr President! The way Finland talks about Russia is also new. The language in which we are now talking about our relationship with Russia and its activities is factual and courageous. A quote from the report: "The security situation in Europe and the Baltic Sea region has deteriorated. Russia took over Crimea and gave birth to a conflict in Eastern Ukraine. A negative spiral has arisen which has led to increased tension in the Baltic Sea region and increased military activity. Russia uses a wide range of military and non-military means to promote its interests. Military use of force against Finland or threat thereof cannot be ruled out." This kind of language is not used to in Finland, and probably not in Russia either, to read how Finland deals with the Russian state and talks about it. That's good. This is an honest and fair speech that Finland, as an independent country, can practise. While our talk about Russia and its actions is tightening up, there has also been an increase in rapprochement with NATO. The host country agreement with NATO was an important new step in this. Similarly, the road that has now been pointed at to deepen armed compatibility with NATO is already a step in the direction of NATO. I am not surprised if Finland’s NATO membership is a reality in the next few years. In order not to do so, Finland needs to strengthen its own military capability and a good culture of dialogue with Russia more clearly and decisively. I do not believe that any other country really understands, as Finland understands, Russia as a neighbour with whom we have learned to live in peace in both good and bad times. It's a good thing to keep it that way. It is good to bear in mind that military cooperation with Sweden or Europe or with NATO is not the ultimate guarantee of our security, but a long-term approach to Russia based on our own considerations. Finland must also strengthen the role of the UN and the ability to act as a global instrument of stability through its own efforts. President! Finland must return its financial support to UN organisations as soon as possible, which was cut off by the government this year. In this way, Finland would restore its reputation as a peacemaker in the international community.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u147	Mr President! It is a very good thing that foreign and security policy can be discussed openly. I believe that one of the signs of this report for a normal Finnish citizen is that Finland takes care of its security policy environment, both internally and in an active manner in foreign policy. The debate is open and should continue. The report rightly highlights the fact that Russia's actions have played a key role in tightening the moods in the Baltic Sea region. Our eastern neighbour's more self-confident and aggressive way of pursuing his foreign policy, on the one hand, and NATO's activation, on the other, poses a major challenge for our government. How to react when the two greats become tense? It is not in anyone's interest for the Baltic Sea region to be subject to a strong policy of power. Russia's actions in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine are absolutely unacceptable, but at the same time we must remember the factors that follow the tensions in our own economy. That is why it is very important to maintain a dialogue with both sides. Mr President! As a result of the discussions over the last few days, our relationship with Russia has been raised in particular. I think it is quite self-evident that joint negotiations and government visits should continue to take place. Our border of 1,300 km obliges us to maintain good neighbourly relations. I believe that in our foreign policy we must continue to emphasise this way of stability, relaxation and cooperation. We cannot think that we are in some way outside the tense atmosphere of the Baltic Sea. On the contrary, we are an inevitable part of it. That is why we must now also pay particular attention to our future foreign and security policy policies. This idea is also supported by the Government's report on Finland's cooperation with NATO. The text states: 'Application for NATO membership would be a fundamental and far-reaching decision in Finland's foreign and security policy and would require wide-ranging debate and careful consideration'. The Finnish line has been defined by non-alignment, which must be continued. Together with Sweden, we have achieved a significant degree of security and stability across the whole of Northern Europe. Personally, I do not see the prospect of joining NATO in the next few years. The situation, however, lives year by year. The maintenance of the NATO facility and the regular assessment of the situation will be an important foreign policy tool for us in the future. Extensive partnerships, political dialogue, training activities and joint exercises make sense forms of cooperation. They are part of the whole process in which our partnership is strongly maintained. Mr President! As a former soldier, I still regard our independent defence as an enabler of our credible foreign and security policy. General military service and our extensive reserves continue to serve the purposes of our country effectively. They are the cornerstone of our security, which is also supported by this government's efforts. At the same time, however, it must be borne in mind that the tensions that have hit Europe as a whole, the threat of terrorism and uncontrolled migration are clearly calling for the deepening of our international cooperation. Finland must support the development of a common European security system to a large extent. Further efforts must also be made to deepen cooperation with Sweden. Internal and external security must go hand in hand now and in the future. This is a Finnish line, which is also strongly supported by the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u148	Mr President! In the Government's report on foreign and security policy, an assessment of the dramatic change in the operating environment is indisputable. The comparison with the previous report is enlightening. Four years ago, the focus of the security policy development assessment was on global change factors. We were aware of the responsibility for solving poverty and environmental problems. We stressed the importance of the UN in multilateral international cooperation, we stressed development cooperation. In this report, attention is drawn to the change in the areas around Finland. In the 2012 report, the description of the surrounding area begins with the sentence "The security policy situation in Finland's neighbouring areas is good". The present report estimates that the situation has become more acute and concludes that military use of force against Finland cannot be ruled out. The change is a fact and the direction of change is worrying. We have moved backwards towards the 20th century world and Europe. This is also visible in the drivers of change. European and transatlantic communities are threatening to remain sidelined, where they will only react to changes. We will certainly also agree on the objective of avoiding Finland's military conflict. The question is, what is the best strategy for achieving this objective? The first generation of independent Finland did not succeed in avoiding war. Understanding the history of this time is beneficial for anticipating the future. Young independent Finland tried all possible options. At different times, there was a German trend, there was an emphasis on Nordic cooperation, and Finland cannot be blamed for the problems of neighbourly relations. Finland signed an non-aggression pact with the Soviet Union in good faith. Mr President! The lesson in history could be that we need a multi-level security strategy. Membership of the European Union is a sustainable basic solution of our security policy. However, as early as tomorrow, British citizens will vote for their own membership of the EU and perhaps also for the future of the Union as a whole. If the position of resignation prevails, the EU will be significantly weaker. No matter how the vote ends, Finland must be active in its EU policy. We need to focus on the essentials and leave aside the collection of internal political points, for example in the area of refugee policy. The report highlights cooperation with Sweden. That is also necessary. However, cooperation between Finland and Sweden is a relationship between two countries. The value of the relationship is weighed separately every day. In addition, it is good to remember that neither of us has the resources to reach the level of power politics. It is essential that Finland continues and deepens its cooperation with the United States, as stated in the report. The United States is a global superpower with its own resources. It is not just a matter of military power, it is a question of the United States being at the centre of the main defence alliances and defence agreements. In addition to NATO, the United States has an influence in East Asia. It has allies in the Middle East, South Asia, Africa, all over the world. The problem is not that the United States is pursuing an overly aggressive policy in Europe, on the contrary. If the United States were to turn completely from the Atlantic to the Pacific, a new balance would have to be sought in Europe. Mr President! Russia's takeover of Crimea and its activities in Eastern Ukraine give cause for concern. However, there is reason to believe that we can maintain neighbourly relations with Russia under all circumstances. Finland did well even when Russia was much stronger than it is now and, at least in theory, it was led in accordance with aggressive and totalitarian power ideology. However, today's Russia is more open and pluralistic than ever before. Our neighbourly relations are based not only on relations between states but also on commercial relations at company level and the interaction of ordinary people. Although Russia is concerned today, the future may be brighter, and that is what we need to do. In our relations with Russia, we can insist that: Finland belongs to the West and makes its own decisions. Mr President! Finland’s current basic security policy has remained stable for a quarter of a century. During this period, the country's foreign policy has been led by four presidents and all present parliamentary parties have been involved in the formations of the government. There is a consensus in foreign and security policy that is valuable in maintaining it. That is why the report is a good continuation of the Finnish line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u149	Mr. Speaker! After all, the foreign and security policy debate has become very active in Finland as a result of the global political situation. We hear daily events around the world that also affect the life of a normal Finnish person. The rise of terrorism and Isis, the tightening of Russia's grips, the British referendum this week and issues such as the US presidential election have a significant impact on Finland's international position. The main underlying reason for this is the increase in interdependence. Surprising event on the other side of the world may come directly before us, whether we like it or not. We are increasingly vulnerable to new security threats such as cyber security. We must never exaggerate or stir them up; that too is an important responsibility for us, but the blue-eyed one must not be, and I think that this report is moving in the field. The Government's report on foreign and security policy is a very timely and important line. I believe that the most important objective must continue to be to create stability in our neighbourhood. If we have good relations with other countries and actors in the Baltic Sea region, we are in a more secure position. At the same time, we can also be a bigger foreign policy player than we are. Many of the proponents of NATO membership justify their positive position on the changes that have taken place in the security environment. These speeches have also been heard in this Chamber. This report does not take Finland one step closer to NATO. The report highlights the continuity of our policy. When changes take place in the environment, a calm and trusting line is the most sensible choice, so we can cope with possible storms. In addition to an active foreign policy, we must engage in active cooperation on security and defence policy within the framework of Nordic cooperation, the European Union, NATO partnership and UN action. In this way, we can also strengthen our own defence capabilities and better prepare for new security threats. Defence policy fundamentals must continue to be universal military service,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u150	Mr President! The European security system has been challenged and the tension in the Baltic Sea region has clearly increased; it has also been raised in today's debate in almost every speech. In addition, security is undermined by the threat of terrorism, increased radicalisation and uncontrolled migration, for example. The changed operating environment is characterised by the speed and unpredictability of change. Russia has played a key role in the change in security in Europe. The illegal takeover of Crimea and many tension-increasing activities in Eastern Ukraine have tightened the relationship between Russia and the EU. We can no longer rule out the use of military force or the threat of it against Finland. This too has been mentioned several times in the debates here. The security situation, especially in the Baltic Sea region, has rapidly and worryingly changed in a worse direction. Our OSCE delegation met the OSCE Special Representative for the Baltic Sea Jürgen Klimke here in Parliament recently. He wisely stressed the importance of maintaining dialogue in the Baltic Sea region and, when the security situation becomes more acute, it is important to show that there is always scope for cooperation. At the OSCE General Assembly in Tbilisi at the beginning of July, we are going to discuss, among other things, the possibility of finding new ways of dialogue between the parties in the Baltic Sea region, which would be a very good idea. In Finland’s bilateral cooperation, Sweden continues to play a stronger special role. Finland's foreign and security policy and defence cooperation with Sweden is very wide-ranging and can be further promoted on the basis of our common interests. Finland and the United States are also deepening their cooperation on a number of issues. The commitment of the United States to NATO and military investment in Europe remains essential to Finland’s security and stability. We are implementing a broad partnership and developing regular political dialogue and practical cooperation with NATO, but this debate in NATO does not need to get stuck. However, we will not be applying for membership in the near future, although we still have that option. — — — — I don't know if it's allowed to be called an option anymore, but that's what I'm calling it now. Mr President! The broad concept of security is essentially linked to global justice, poverty reduction and also to curbing the development of inequality both globally and in Finland. Finland promotes the rights of women and girls and the equal participation of women in politics and economic life. We are more closely involved in the fight against violence against women, and there is indeed a lot of work to do — I refer to the Istanbul agreement, the implementation of which we in Finland also need to take a number of measures, including legislative changes. We are aligning our own policies with the agreed Agenda 2030 at the UN. Strengthening the rights and status of women and girls is our long-term priority. Finland supports the work of actors that affect gender equality and the know-how and opportunities of women and girls. Food security and access to water and energy are also important priorities. Adequate nutrition is the lifeblood of human life and agricultural production remains the key sector of development in the poorest countries. One of Finland’s important priorities is to continue to strengthen the democratic and functional capacity of societies. We need good governance so that aid does not serve only the interests of the elite, but that aid and development can reach all citizens. It is also important that Finland increases its investment in the development of economic governance and tax capacity. In addition to good governance, tax revenues play a key role in eliminating inequalities. Finland also aims to strengthen civil societies in developing countries. Free and diverse civil society highlights the citizens' perspective and tackles the shortcomings. Mr President! The world needs one billion jobs in order to find work, especially for the huge age groups of young people. We also need better quality training in order to give companies the right kind of workforce. We therefore need decent jobs, and a lot. To this end, development cooperation and also preventive development must always be included in this broad concept of security.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u151	Mr President! As the Minister of Foreign Affairs said earlier in his reply, Arctic cooperation has so far remained outside the current tensions of international politics. For Finland, in particular as a small country, the continuation of this good cooperation is extremely important, and it is precisely in the future that this cooperation will focus more on environmental protection in the Arctic regions. By protecting the Arctic region, we will best protect the peace and stability of the whole region. The Arctic region is currently warming twice as fast as the global average, and the sea ice is melting at a rather wild rate. The sea ice has been historically small all spring. That is why I was extremely pleased that the Foreign Minister here in his earlier reply also raised climate change, because in this report there is very little talk about this issue, far too little. Arctic nature is delicate. Even without industrial activity, it is under enormous pressure because of the warming of the climate and seawater, the disappearance of ice and the new species from the south. Only a small part of the Arctic Ocean has been protected. There is an urgent need for a network of protected areas in the region. The international maritime area around the North Pole must be protected as part of this network. This spring, the UN has launched a negotiation process to complete the Convention on the Law of the Sea, and these negotiations must be completed with ambition. This will enable conservation areas to be established in the international maritime area, including the Arctic. At present, only part of the maritime area in question has the possibility to do so. So far, Finland has been very active in Arctic maritime protection, and it is something we should all be proud of. It must therefore be said that the limits set by this report for the exploitation of the Arctic are much wider than the existing guidelines. In the future, we should stick to the very good guidelines of the 2013 Arctic Strategy, which Finland has promoted with honour so far. Mr President! What happens in the Arctic affects all of us here. It's affecting the whole world. At no time must the region be left as a monopoly of five coastal states or subjected to the exploitation of natural resources in this region. Here in Finland, as a northern state, we have a special responsibility for the Arctic. We have to hold out at that point if the thinking of others is shortsighted. Economic visions in the Arctic must not be built on oil and gas investments. The achievement of the objectives of the Paris agreement on climate change clearly calls for Arctic fossil resources to be left on the ground, all of them. If this does not happen, then climate change will increase even further, and this in itself will undermine economic prosperity and make our future security threats even more unpredictable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u152	Madam President! The Foreign and Security Policy Report broadly outlines Finland's foreign and security policy, and it is therefore important that there is a very wide-ranging and wide-ranging debate here in Parliament, later in committees, among citizens and in the media. The report covers a wide range of global trends, regional factors of change that affect us and our operating environment. Many of these are, in fact, threats and opportunities. Undoubtedly, climate change is one of the greatest threats to the global ecosystem, but at the same time it is an inevitable and necessary impetus for the development of renewable energies, green technologies. Globalisation, digitalisation, not only undermines our social structures, but also creates opportunities. Social media are challenging traditional policy-making methods and social institutions, and it is important that we are aware of these developments. Finland’s foreign policy has long been guided by an active stability policy. On the other weekend, the Centre approved the party's foreign and security policy statement at the party meeting, which states that this line will also be sustainable for the next few years. It is great that this similar policy objective of active security policy stability in the neighbourhood is also strong in our report. Finland has maintained stability, always tried to build relations multilaterally, bilaterally in every direction. The report states that we would not be able to remain in the role of an external observer if a conflict were to escalate in our neighbourhood. However, Finland must also play its part in ensuring that the conflict does not arise under any circumstances. I am also referring here to our group statement that it is a question of how we can leave the earth to the next people in better shape. Finland has played a bigger role in many international organisations, the EU, the UN, where we have been actively involved in civilian military crisis management, and in the negotiations on the Paris climate agreement, our ministers played very decisive roles. As far as the priorities for foreign and security policy set out in the report are concerned, they are certainly justified, but the depth level could have been even wider, particularly with regard to Nordic cooperation, the issue of Russia and also the Arctic issues. I hope that the Arctic Information Centre, which has also emerged in this debate in the Chamber, has not been buried in anything, although it was not in this report, but will continue to be promoted in the context of and at the level of the EU's Arctic Strategy. From a security policy point of view, strengthening the EU security community is a good thing, strengthening defence cooperation with Sweden is important, maintaining relations with Russia despite tensions and yes dialogue. We do not know what will happen to our neighbours if we do not maintain a wide range of relations there, and this will require a whole repertoire: diplomacy, action between citizens, businesses, NGOs. People-to-people contacts are also most important in international relations. Mr President! I hope that Parliament will finally find parliamentary agreement across the political boundaries on the long consensus on foreign and security policy, and it is true that the conditions for survival of a small nation are many times that we are internally united and united. That agreement can be broadly achieved only if foreign policy is the subject of public debate, not the exclusive right of political decision-makers. A stable and predictable foreign policy is part of a good security policy. For we can strengthen the resilience of our society and promote its values that are important to us: peace, stability, democracy, human rights, the rule of law and equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u153	Honored Speaker! These global discussions are far too rare in this Chamber. There's talk here all the time like we're living in a barrel where there's nothing on the outside. This is the impetuous nature of the current government, which is reflected in all its programmes and reports and in the narrow debates in Parliament, unfortunately. Although we live in a world of ever closer interdependencies, in all its so-called strategies, the government presents Finland as a separate island from the global environment. This narrow perspective creates fatal weaknesses in government economic policy, in euro policy and also in foreign and security policy. As Prime Minister Sipilä listed in his speech and clear as such, Finland's foreign and security policy solutions aim to safeguard Finland's interests. But this definition must be supplemented by the vision of Finland's responsibility for Europe and the world, which is our direction and not just where our own pole is located. Climate change and other global environmental problems, water and food crises, conflicts in developing countries, population growth and increasing inequality, the challenges of the renewal of energy and production systems and uncontrolled financial capitalism are a fatal link. Some of these are listed in the report, but what is Finland’s view and strategy on the whole of these intertwined megatrends? What is Finland’s contribution to solving these global challenges? I'm not gonna tell you that. What is Finland doing concrete to slow down climate change, and how does it aim to reduce global income disparities? It is particularly difficult to answer these questions when the government has cut development cooperation significantly and even agreed on further cuts. The refugee crisis caused by the conflicts in the Middle East and North Africa is seen only as a domestic problem, which is dealt with by unreasonable disciplinary measures, regardless of human rights and even the rights of children. There are two chilling examples of this: the amendments to the foreign law on the agenda of this sitting: the legal protection of asylum seekers is being undermined and family reunification is being made virtually impossible. Mr President! The focus of the report has been on strengthening the European Union as a security community. This item deals mainly with defence and intelligence activities. At the heart of the EU's foreign and security policy, however, is the so-called soft force, which includes membership and cooperation agreements, economic relations and now also sanctions. Because this traditional EU foreign and security policy is currently in difficulty, if not in crisis, it would have been desirable to have medicines strengthened, in other words to strengthen the political union. We cannot just pick up the most tasty treats from a standing table, but Finland is required to make a constructive and proactive contribution to strengthening the common objectives of the European Union. For 20 years, Finland has had a long and credible line, which has now fallen apart. At best, our relationship with the European Union is only defensive and reactive, breaking, tearing and disunifying. The most confusing demonstration of this line was seen last summer when the Finnish Government proposed the separation of Greece from the euro area. Finland's objective was therefore to break European monetary union, to increase unrest, and while Greece was still under pressure and under pressure from refugee flows, the consequences could have been extremely serious. The worst thing was that the large committee was not assured that the Government had made a careful impact assessment of the dramatic consequences of the decision. It's just sulphur. Let's see who picks up the shrapnel. It is therefore worth being pleased that Finland is not driving Brexit this time with the same enthusiasm as grexit last summer. However, it should be borne in mind that the superficial understanding of foreign and security policy may be crushed by the passive nature of environmental, development and economic policies or, alternatively, aggression — passive aggression.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u154	Mr President! To begin with, if your navel is not in order, there is nothing we can do to help others. Mr President! The report on foreign and security policy has been completed on schedule and is a completely new long-term strategic analysis. The report is a clear and concise presentation of Finland's foreign and security policy objectives and serves as a good basis for the Government both in strengthening national security and in developing international cooperation. The Government has assessed the impact of development in a rapidly changing operating environment and presents Finland's foreign and security policy priorities for the long term. The report provides a thorough analysis of the factors which undermine Europe's security. Russia's activities, the illegal takeover of Crimea and activities in Eastern Ukraine have been mentioned as key changes in security. Security is also undermined by the threat of terrorism, increased radicalisation and uncontrolled migration. The report highlights the link between external and internal security. Finland's total national security must be our number one priority. In view of the security policy situation in our neighbourhood, the use of military force against Finland or threats to it cannot be completely excluded. Consequently, the resilience of the crisis needs to be strengthened in a number of ways. That is why we must also deepen international cooperation, and we cannot isolate ourselves. In particular, bilateral defence cooperation with Sweden must be promoted on the basis of common interests without restrictions, as is now being done. We share the same strategic challenges and uncertainties with Sweden in the common maritime area. In both countries, emphasis has been placed on military non-alignment — to supplement national defence. Finland and Sweden are already clearly increasing their military cooperation with each other and with the United States. Finland and Sweden strive more deeply for operational cooperation, and it has been practiced in several joint exercises. Mr President! Finland must be an active player in the development of the EU's common security policy. Our position as a neighbour of Russia and as a state of the external border of Europe is challenging in the current situation. Better cooperation between the EU and Russia is particularly in Finland's interest and would strengthen the security and economy of Europe as a whole. The report takes into account Finland's objective to maintain stable and effective relations with Russia. Russia is not a military threat to Finland but an important trading partner. There is a bit too much controversy about this, at a time when Finns do not seem to be concerned about security because of Russia. Although the possibility of applying for membership remains open, the report does not consider Finland's membership of NATO to be timely. According to the report, Finland maintains the possibility of applying for membership in NATO, following closely the change in its security environment. A recent report on the impact of possible membership is an assessment with many uncertainties. There will be so many possible variables in the near future for the world and Europe that the best thing to do now is not to rush into military alliances. For Finland’s security and well-being, a safe and stable international environment in which the activities of states, businesses and people are governed by international law and are based on commonly agreed rules, rights and obligations. Finally, it should be noted that human rights and equality have also been taken into account in the report. One of the hallmarks of democracy is gender equality. Finland has invested in improving the position of women in development, including entrepreneurship, as well as in girls' education. It is important to promote women's participation in politics and decision-making. There is a growing need to make a sound in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u155	Madam President! First of all, we should congratulate you on the choices made today, warm congratulations. I thought in my own speech that I would focus on the issues which I think Parliament's response to this government report should at least be in part. The first concerns EU cooperation. It is quite clear that after the terrorist attacks, after the experience of Paris and Brussels, a new, more serious debate has begun in the EU on what aid clauses, solidarity clauses really mean — Mr Vanhanen well referred to this in his own speech. Usually, at least on the military and the defence side, there is a truth that you know what you're practicing. In other words, if we want to work together within a European framework, we should practice it, we should prepare for it, we should think about scenarios and situations, and hopefully this type of European cooperation will increase and Finland could take the initiative in doing so. Good is the government's new proposal to provide and receive international assistance, which will make it easier for us to participate in different international activities. Mr President! The second issue is cooperation between Finland and Sweden, which has been discussed a great deal here today. Too little attention has been paid to Lohelan's trip to Sweden in May, because we had the opportunity from various parliamentary groups to participate in it and there was a rather interesting debate with Mr Urban Ahlin, President of Parliament, and Mr Hultqvist, Minister for Defence, and others. At least I was left with the impression that Sweden was also going through such soul-searching in security policy, that which line was taken, and was very interested in Finnish thinking and our perspectives. But it also seemed that there was some kind of dent at the time of submitting an application for EU membership, that is to say, there was no desire for such a dent to be created in NATO or in other words that the countries would not inform each other, and this came up again and again in various speeches. And even if the Defence Union is certainly not today, I think it would be good if this defence cooperation, which has now been set up, was agreed in some way, because of the changing governments and the changing governments there. There should be a long way to go when it comes to what this defence cooperation is seeking and what forms it is looking for. Mr President! I will also address the issue of Russia in a few words. A great deal has already been said about it here, and I naturally agree with all of them that the situation will change dramatically when the Minsk Agreement is implemented in Ukraine and Crimea and we get to the normal order of business. But it must also be said that the same Russia we knew before the time of the sanctions will not come back to cooperate. We ourselves think that there may be a weakened Russia and a more heterogeneous Russia, but it is quite possible that there will be a stronger and more united Russia after such trials — and Russia, which may rely more on its own resources, will be less dependent on trade with Europe and thus away. I therefore think it would be wise to think now of the common sectors that should be developed with Russia for the future. They may be related to Arctic issues that Russia is following and, of course, interested in, and certainly relate to climate change issues, which are also more and more topical to them. I think that Finland should already prepare these elements for the future. And when it says in this report a very fine phrase that our knowledge of Russia needs to be deepened, I waited for the practical measures to be taken, how to deepen it, how, for example, to increase cooperation between researchers, what else to do. Mr President! Finally, I would like to mention two points. The second is the resources of mediation, the resources. It is quite true that today Finland could do much more in relation to the areas where refugees are being targeted. It's Afghanistan, it's Somalia, it's Iraq, it's Syria, it's Libya and so on. Finland could take initiative in these matters today and also consider initiatives in these matters. Last but not least, Mr President, the issue of climate change and the environment is perhaps a little under consideration in this report. One of the things that has been well discussed here is what these changes are like for the Arctic regions, and as President-in-Office of the Arctic Council we are increasingly confronted with these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u156	Mr President! Our country is a natural part of Europe, part of the world and, of course, in close interaction with these communities, dependent on the influences of the outside world, but also as an active influence. A strong part of Finland’s security is, of course, how we can keep our own affairs in order, such as the economy and employment. In addition to the foreign and security policy report under discussion, the government has, at its best, also taken steps to balance the economy and boost employment. It maintains the integrity of society and improves our condition also with a view to coping with external pressures. In the report, the polarisation of society was well taken into account as an increasing risk to safety development. Social segregation has also made Western and democratic states quite vulnerable in terms of security, as we have seen in Europe. This is why the relationship between internal and external security is very strong today. The changed security situation has brought with it a policy of force, which has strengthened negative action and the cycle of countermeasures. Various crises and military conflicts have become regrettable everyday and close to Finland. At the same time, the boundaries of peace, crisis and war have become blurred. If you think of Finland's traditional role, there is now more order for the stabiliser and the negotiating state than for a long time. The path of relaxation and stability must be Finland's foreign policy line in the future. One important point for Finland’s security is that the world’s distress has come ever closer to us. The large number of asylum seekers is one concrete example of this. Events challenge us all the time to detect and internalize changes in the world. At the same time, they challenge us to make consistent policies in our own policy. Our policy must, of course, be aimed primarily at ensuring the safety of Finns, but also at promoting stability and prosperity throughout the world. Mr President! From the point of view of the Administrative Committee, it is easy to see the relationship between internal and external security in recent years that is still only strengthened. I claim that Finland has also had a positive impact on its external security, as we have been determined to promote cooperation between the authorities within the country. In the course of the asylum-seekers crisis last autumn and winter, closer cooperation between the police, Customs, the border and immigration authorities was also essential for the management of the situation. Border security and all of it is a concrete link to external security through internal security and national defence work. Although we are talking about foreign policy today, I cannot fail to remind you how important it is, for example, to provide sufficient resources for border security in all circumstances. Finnish foreign policy and global responsibility must also include a strong improvement in the position of women and girls. Women's rights must be pursued with determination, as gender inequalities remain strong in the world and women experience a wide range of discrimination and violence depending on their cultural and social environment. Finland must continue to promote the fight against forced marriages of girls, trafficking in human beings and female poverty in international cooperation. We must also support equal pay for women and the promotion of women's literacy and democratic rights. The relationship between women's rights and the role of women in the development of peace is strong. Much work has been done to bring women to the negotiating tables, especially in the peace processes in Africa, but there is still a lot of work to be done. The role of women has been shown to play an important role in the building of a society recovering from conflict, and the emphasis on their role will make peace-building more sustainable. In my opinion, the position of women and girls was rather modest in this report, although there was, of course, a copy of the work on equality. I therefore hope that Finland will keep the relationship between women's position and peace and security on the international scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u157	Madam President! First of all, warm congratulations on what happened today. Of course, the basic objective of foreign and security policy is to safeguard the safety of Finland and Finns. In order to achieve this objective, the guidelines must be realistic and stability must be sought within their own borders and in the neighbouring areas of Finland. Realism involves, to the greatest extent, a correct understanding of changes in the operating environment. On this basis, I would like to say from the outset that from this point of view I personally consider the NATO option to be important. At each stage and in all situations, Finland must maintain sufficient room for manoeuvre and maintain the possibility of a military alliance, just as the report states. Is the Government's report realistic enough, and does it correctly take into account changes in the Finnish security environment? The answer to this day's debate is, of course, yes. The report even takes exceptionally good account of the new type of situation and the tension that has grown in the world for various reasons. At the same time, we can see that, with the changes, internal and external security are increasingly intertwined. That is why the previous Internal Security Report and the present report should be closely linked. Finland's security policy and debate on it have traditionally been dominated by Russia. We are living in a phase where the Cold War arrangements have partly returned and Russia and the West are fragile. I am therefore very pleased that the current government, under the leadership of the Prime Minister and also the President of the active Republic, has strengthened Finland's negotiating relationship with Russia. Finland cannot be a supporter of negative actions; we must always strive for the role of stabiliser. If, in my opinion, a section of the report on foreign and security policy was too narrow, it is a short paragraph describing the Arctic environment and short references to the Arctic. Of course, this Arctic has been mentioned on many occasions, but as President of the Barents Regional Council, I particularly hope that Finland will see greater opportunities for achieving foreign policy objectives through this local Barents cooperation structure. All forms of regional cooperation are likely to serve as a bridgebuilder in an otherwise sensitive environment. This kind of cooperation does not, in principle, extend to the economic cycle of international policy, and it is therefore worthwhile resolutely strengthening it. Cooperation in the region is indispensable by its practical nature. The Barents region, for example, despite the mother countries, is linked by the same challenges: investment, skilled labour and better transport connections are needed. On the other hand, opportunities are common, and in the Barents region they naturally relate to tourism and natural resources, for example. These are not just economic issues, but at best have a very favourable and stabilising impact on the security policy of our neighbouring region if they are managed together with determination. That is why I also said here that, when we talk about the Arctic and in particular about the Barents cooperation between the north-western parts of Russia and the northern regions of Finland, Sweden and Norway, we must not give way to foreign political tension there, but, on the contrary, we must intensify cooperation across borders. The Barents region must remain outside of international tensions. Personally, I even believe that close cooperation in the Barents region could even open up the possibility, in this geopolitical situation, of setting an example of the strength of cooperation in the direction of the European Union. With regard to Barents and Arcticism, I would also like Finland to become a stronger Arctic President. Global interest in the Arctic region is growing, but on the EU agenda, for example, it still does not seem to me to be getting high enough. Arctic cooperation is practical and therefore at best acts as a stabilising force for foreign policy. It is therefore worth emphasising Arctic cooperation even more strongly within the EU. The report on this need seems to be well acknowledged, and as is the case today, for example:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u158	Madam President! Many things have been said many times today, but we all know that the review is the mother of the studies. The Government's report on foreign and security policy speaks with refreshing honesty and, as we have heard on several occasions today, instability and insecurity have increased at an accelerating pace. The situation in Finland is weakened by Russia's return to power policy thinking and action. As stated in the report, Russia plays a geopolitical zero-sum game with only one winner and one loser. The Russian administration naturally wants to be the winner of this game. The deteriorating security situation in the Baltic Sea should be taken seriously. The use of military force or threats against Finland cannot be ruled out. The report goes on to say that, as an EU member, Finland could not be an outsider if security was threatened in its neighbourhood or elsewhere in Europe. Taking care of your own defence is always the responsibility of Finns. However, we cannot do this alone. Our main objective is to strengthen cooperation in foreign, security and defence policy, particularly with Sweden. The report states that Finnish and Swedish security policy solutions have a close connection. Prime Minister Löfven reminded us during the last discussions in Goldiranta that Sweden has no interest in a defence alliance with Finland. This reality Finland must take into account. Prime Minister Löfven's position on the military non-alignment of Sweden is, above all, based on the position of his party. Sweden has been used to making rapid decisions in the interests of its own country, and the position may well change after the next Swedish parliamentary elections. At the same time, it should be remembered that in the Swedish Defence Force Reform, the focus of the armed forces shifted to international crisis management operations and since 2014, Sweden has once again become interested in developing defence in its own region against conventional threats. We should congratulate ourselves and the previous governments for continuing our own defence policy on a long-term basis based on universal military duty. At the same time, we have been actively involved in international crisis management operations around the world. For the EU's common security and defence policy, activation of security guarantees was an important precedent. As a non-military country, it is important for Finland that the article is not just empty words on paper. If Finland were under attack, we too would like a strong statement of support from other countries. We must also be prepared to give concrete support to other Member States. It is also very important to understand that the mutual assistance clause does not offer the same protection as Article 5 of NATO. We must continue to intensify military cooperation with the United States and actively participate in military cooperation exercises. This will ensure compatibility in aid delivery and reception situations. The report states that it is important for Finland to continue the policy of open NATO doors and at the same time to maintain the prospect of membership, and that is a good thing. We all know that 22 of the 28 Member States of the European Union belong to NATO, so we can well say that defence cooperation for the stability of the European continent rests largely on NATO's shoulders. NATO security guarantees only protect NATO countries. There are no sustainable grounds for Finland's exclusion from security guarantees. International relations and security policy are in constant motion, in which decisions taken by individual countries affect all actors. We are not living in an artificial, stable system during the Cold War, where we can only unilaterally close our security policy movements for years to come. That is why we must continue to call for more and more concrete reports on foreign and security policy and should not be timed for tough annual trends. History shows that small countries must be involved in all the international inter-state organisations that aim to increase stability and prosperity. Finland has been an active member of the UN, the EU and the OSCE, and has progressed to NATO's extended partnership cooperation programme. It is in our interest that international laws and agreed practices should be followed in order to protect the integrity of all states. However, it is these small countries, such as Finland, that must be the first to be prepared to face a cold, realistic zero-sum game. Mr President! Finally, for the first time, the Coalition Party and the RKP have set a timetable for Finland's membership of NATO, and I would also like to see similar contributions from representatives of other parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u159	Let us take one reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u160	Mr President! The representative there was just flashing the scenario that there would be unexpected and self-interested sudden developments in Sweden. He obviously did not hear the report of the Judge-in-Office, the former Minister, that Finland and Sweden are genuinely cooperating and discussing all significant and even less significant solutions together, so there is no reason for such intimidation, and there is no reason to underestimate the most significant line of government that Finland and Sweden are acting together in these matters. Now it would be good to know whether the government now believes that we have a genuine dialogue and dialogue and common goals with Sweden or not. Do I have to be afraid of sudden action on the west side now? In addition, it is completely pointless to cultivate the image that Sweden has suddenly been overwhelmed by some NATO enthusiasm. It is continuing to maintain its firmness in the view that there is a minority of NATO supporters.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u161	Madam President! For Mr Haraka's information, there will be an election in Sweden in 2018 and there many right-wing parties have clearly announced that NATO will take place. It is a clear signal that some changes are also likely to come to this cooperation in the future, so we cannot say that we know exactly what will happen in Sweden in the future. We must take into account that there are 2018 elections and then different things can happen. Certainly the Swedes will keep us on the edge of time and up to date at the time when these decisions are being made, but we cannot influence the forthcoming election result and what they will do after the elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u162	One reply, Mr Pelkonen and Mr Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u163	Madam President! Mr Wallinheim here already took some of the words out of my mouth, but I would like to quote one of my wise friends, who has often guided me and many others in the fact that no important decisions should ever be made on the basis of fears. In my own speech, I was not instigating any kind of fear, but I was telling the facts that Mrs Wallinheim has just mentioned. Finland and Sweden are engaged in open dialogues with each other, and this is good. This is also very good for Russia, so that they also know what the neighbouring countries are planning. But the most important thing is to remember that each country makes its own defence policy decisions and its own. And the secret is certainly not that the Coalition Party has been flagging for NATO membership for a long time and continues to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u164	It is quite clear, of course, that there will be 2018 elections in Sweden and 2019 elections in Finland, but there will be no point in talking about the fact that good cooperation between us on security could ruin such a sudden turn and a surprise, which you probably referred to in this speech. We can check these wordings in the Minutes. It has also been said today that foreign and security policy must be long-term, and that such sudden world situations must not be allowed to shake a great deal of ground, so, in this respect too, it can be said that, apart from the fact that there seems to be a lack of clarity at least in the assembly as to what is the real state of security cooperation between Sweden and Finland, there is also a need to reverse these ships and how long-term foreign and security policy needs to be pursued.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u165	Then let's go back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u166	Madam President! Finland’s foreign and security policy relies on and promotes the values, rights and obligations enshrined in the Constitution. The Government's report on foreign and security policy gives a serious picture of the security situation in Finland and the Baltic Sea region as a whole. The security situation has deteriorated in the Baltic Sea region as well as in Europe as a whole. The Government's report states more directly and clearly that as a member of the EU, Finland could not be an outsider if security was threatened in its neighbourhood or elsewhere in Europe. The report gives a good picture of the deterioration in the security of the Baltic Sea region. Russia walked to Crimea and caused the conflict in Eastern Ukraine, which triggered a negative spiral and increased military activity, and there is no end in sight. According to the report, military use of force against Finland cannot be excluded. Four years ago, the assessment was better and the security policy situation was assessed to be stable. However, it was already estimated at the time that military power could be used in a limited way as part of political or economic pressure. The report states more directly the political and military importance of the United States as a stabiliser of Europe and our neighbourhood. But is it stabilising when NATO's missile shields are on our stairs aimed at Russia? However, in the report the line is much clearer than in the past and the importance of the United States is strongly highlighted. Already at the moment, Finland is implementing a broad and evolving partnership with NATO. Our weapons systems are also compatible with NATO. Finland will continue to participate in NATO joint exercises and training activities, but only on its own basis. Should we also think about military cooperation with Russia, or is it already too dangerous? In my opinion, in particular: The Navy could organise joint submarine search exercises in our shared waters. When you read the report carefully, you can say that it has recorded a greater readiness to apply for NATO membership, even though the basic line as a non-military country is unchanged in Finland. Nor will there be a NATO application in this parliamentary term. It's not part of the government program. I believe that applying to NATO is linked to Swedish decisions. Alone, we cannot remain here at the end of the bag, so to speak, as a neutral country. At the moment, Russia is not a direct threat to Finland. However, Finland is also affected by the tense situation in neighbouring areas, especially in the Baltic Sea. The most important thing is to continue to maintain good relations with our neighbours, while at the same time investing in the maintenance and development of national defence capabilities in the coming years, at least as planned. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that Finland's foreign and security policy has a key objective of avoiding military conflict. Finland is not about to attack anywhere, but it is certain to defend the attacker of its country, no matter where it comes from. Finland has a very high will to defend the country. Madam President! As Mr Soini mentioned in his introductory speech, the Arctic region is a priority for us. The Finnish Presidency of the Arctic Council next year will be a real opportunity and a point of view for our country. The presidency must therefore be used effectively, and we must also pursue our own objectives with the Presidency's mandate. Personally, I would like to see the real leadership of the Arctic in Finland taken over by Foreign Minister Soini, even if it would result in further work. At the moment, I do not see that we have sufficient control over Arctic matters. However, we are lucky to have the new Secretary-General of the Standing Committee of the Arctic Parliamentary Conference on Finland. Last week the Finnish delegation from the Arctic region was given the opportunity to attend a conference in Ulan-Udessa, Russia. Every two years, the conference is the most important forum for cooperation in the northern regions of the Arctic parliaments, and in two years' time, the conference will take place in Finland. Under the leadership of its excellent chairman, Mr Kulmun, the Ulan-Udessa delegation also raised the issue of improving the position of women and young people. Improving their position is crucial in addressing global challenges, as we have already heard today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u167	Madam President! I'll start with a sitat. "Insecurity, counterpositioning and power policy are a sign of reality. Geopolitics have come back. Stability in our neighbourhood is a crucial factor in Finland's security. This is how it's always been. A separate war against Finland is hard to imagine." — Mr Kanerva, who spoke earlier, was absolutely right about this. Russia's recent efforts, both in Georgia and also in Crimea and subsequently in Eastern Ukraine, have greatly shaken the balance in neighbouring areas. The environment in which we are now living has changed for God knows how long and unfortunately is constantly changing. I am sure we will all agree on this in this Chamber. I think the strategic report on this issue is very clear. For once, our assessment of our security policy environment is clearly and honestly read in the report, and once that assessment is made, it must be taken particularly seriously in this particular period of time. It goes without saying that we must stick to our credible defence capability. It is a fundamental pillar that we must not destabilise now. On the other hand, we also need partners to spar our defence capabilities. That is why it is great, for example, that we want to further intensify our cooperation with Sweden. This step is a good start. In particular, closer cooperation in material procurement, for example, is beneficial for Finland. Patria, Nammo, Saab, Kongsberg and other Nordic defence partners will certainly be given additional impetus to make joint Nordic purchases in the future. All these measures are also likely to increase our security of supply in the Nordic countries. This step will help both our defence capabilities and, more broadly, the defence capabilities of the whole of the Nordic Region. This is particularly important in view of the tense atmosphere in the Baltic Sea region. Mr President! Our values community, the EU, must be our support and security in this time. It must continue to be our international safety net, where Finland has always been of greater importance. We must also be at the EU's tables in the future, making the best possible foreign and security policy solutions that will lead Finland strongly forward. It won't be easy in this time. Europe has a few challenges everywhere. That is why it is important that we make a strong contribution to our interests in the EU from our own point of view. For us, a broad and comprehensive interpretation of the EU solidarity clause and the obligation to provide mutual assistance is very important, and we should also remind our colleagues in the European Union in future. Of course, we must always bear in mind that the EU is not a defence alliance, as has been said many times in this Chamber today. On the other hand, Madam President, NATO is a defence alliance. Therefore, the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party and in fact the whole party have been talking about the security-enhancing effect of Finnish NATO membership since 2006. It has also been clearly stated in this report that it is now extremely important for Finland to continue its policy of open NATO doors and to secure the possibility of applying for membership. We've got to hold on to it. We do not know when it is too late, therefore the door must be opened more and more.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u168	Madam President! This defence report comes at an excellent time and is an important document for our time. It is important to note that Finland is a neutral country that is not part of military alliances. Finland is credible in its defence of its own country, which means that we have a general military service in this country, a regional defence that guarantees that every square metre of the country will be defended, whether in the south or in the north. The general military service also provides our country with sufficient reserves, which are well-trained and well equipped. This system has been found to be the best possible, affordable, effective system for Finland, and above all this ensures that our will to defend the country is at a very good level. There is a lot of research on this, and it is gratifying that the will to defend the country is also very high among young people. Equally important for Finland's future is that a wise foreign and security policy will ensure that we continue to remain a country that is trusted and a peace-loving country, and in all our neighbours and also in all our various forums around the world, it is understood that Finland is a non-military country, an impartial country. It's the best of our security. A wise foreign policy will continue to guarantee what we have achieved so far. The situation in Finland is stable. We have good relations with all the neighbors, all the directions of the air. We have been members of the European Union since 1995. The European Union's security guarantees, the solidarity clause is a working reality: that is what we have already seen in the case of the French terrorist case, that aid came from neighbouring and Member States as soon as the request was made. Finland is also a partner in NATO peace. We will, of course, work with NATO through the various means that have been found to be good so far. We must remember that NATO as a partner in peace also has a forum for us to get the necessary information. Finland, as an active UN Member State, is also one of the countries to which all nations of the UN rely through peacekeeping activities. Finland has participated in this peace-keeping activity since 1956, so this year we are celebrating the 60th anniversary of this forum. This work has produced us a lot of good PR around the world, and as such its work must continue even during this report. As a neighbour of Russia, we have a very special position in Europe and we must ensure that our neighbourly relations towards that east are maintained and we will then be able to make use of them in other international forums when dealing with other countries. The preparation of the report has been comprehensive. The Parliamentary Monitoring Group has done an excellent job and has created the parliamentary coverage that is absolutely necessary for such a report. This steering effect of this Government's report on foreign and security policy is very important — that there is a clear policy that will continue from now on. The fact that we are not necessarily in complete agreement on this issue is not in any way a bad thing. Foreign and security policy must also be dared to discuss all the options and, if anyone dares to disagree, it is part of a democratic society that there is always a chance for free opinion to be expressed. The fact that this report remains in Parliament at the beginning of the autumn season is not a problem either: it is one of the ways in which a democratic state manages its affairs. Holidays are held when they are, and the work will continue when it continues. I do not think it would be worthwhile to draw any further conclusions from this. It is important to bear in mind that Finland is still an active international player, including during the period of influence of this new report. And we must remember that this reporting procedure has already been in place for many, many parliamentary periods before this, that we have good traditions about it. The security situation at our borders has changed, but nevertheless we must maintain a calm, stable line, remain neutral and, above all, maintain good relations with our neighbours. I'm sure our neighbors appreciate the fact that we have good relations to the east. And what the President of the Republic said in the debate on Goldiarda: it is an excellent thing that the President of the Republic made it clear that foreign policy is for us to maintain good relations with our neighbours and also bilateral relations. Madam President! Finally, I would just like to say that one important part of Finland's security policy too is that we are putting this country's economy in order, because only a well-functioning country with a well-functioning economy will be able to manage its neighbourly relations well and keep the defence issues in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u169	Madam President — and future Minister, congratulations on today's news! Vision Finland 2025 is one of the aims of the report on foreign and security policy, and its purpose is to describe Finland about ten years from now. The foreign and security policy objective has been raised in many debates here, and I believe that there has been a good and open debate on Finnish security policy and its objectives. Many speakers have said that the security policy environment has changed a great deal over the last few years, and many times the Finnish defence forces have been questioned whether they are aware of the crisis and so on. Global trends have also been observed in Europe and there is a great deal of immigration, all of this also applies to us Finns. The situation in Finland's neighbourhood has changed. In particular, the Baltic Sea is an area where many people are interested, and there has been more activity in the Baltic Sea in recent times. The priorities and objectives of the report are well defined in this section and one of the priorities is to strengthen the European Union as a security community. With regard to whether the European Union is a safe area and so on, we can say ourselves that the immigration issue of last year is one indication that the security situation in Europe has also changed. We also have some unfortunate events in European countries. Deepening cooperation with Sweden and other Nordic countries is an important issue for Finland. It is also important for our security policy situation, and I hope that in it Finland and the other Nordic countries will maintain a good debate. Closer cooperation with the United States is also necessary, and a good example of this is the joint military exercises held this year, including in Finland. The importance of relations with Russia can never be overemphasized: after all, we have a border of 1,300 kilometres and a great power in that neighbour. It's always better to be on good speaking terms with your neighbor than in other types of situations. Bilateral relations in foreign and security policy are important. A few observations from today's debate I'd like to raise. We have been asked whether there has already been an agreement to apply for Finland’s NATO membership. To that our prime minister replied, "No way." Finland's policy is that Finland is a non-military country and NATO membership will not be applied for at least during this Government term. 'All changes',commented by a number of contributions and referred mainly to the possible outcome of this To that, Minister Soini replied well: the vote in Great Britain, however it is, will change everything in Europe. However, I believe that Finland's security policy is based on a good defence policy and that Finland's defence policy must be based on general military duty, on its own defence forces, and have sufficient resources. A good example of this is participation in international crisis management missions and operations. After all, this year it is the 60th anniversary of Finnish peacekeeping, and I hope that Finland will one day regain its great power in peace-keeping.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u170	Mr President! Finland has traditionally sought stability in its foreign and security policy in its neighbourhood and to promote constructive dialogue between the various parties. Over the last few years, the global security situation has changed very rapidly and radically. The changes have been very drastic and, in addition, completely unpredictable. After the first signs of change, the situation has been escalating very quickly even to military use of force. Recent events have also caused changes in the security policy situation in Finland and our neighbouring regions. A clear tightening of the situation requires Finland to actively monitor the situation and cooperate with different countries in order to normalise the tense situation through a constructive foreign policy that enables dialogue between the various parties. At the same time, our country must be able to react quickly to changes in our security policy environment. Trade can be seen as one of the measures to alleviate tensions between countries. When businesses operate and trade in the territories of other countries, it is natural that normal, constructive dialogue between trading countries is also natural. The security of our country is built on both internal and external security. With a good foreign policy, we are able to reduce external risks to the country caused by other countries. In addition to these, the new motivation for security is cybersecurity, which is both internal and external security. Cybersecurity includes not only traditional online intelligence but also more and more information impact. Online, both governmental and non-governmental actors can share information that supports their own views in a targeted and highly effective way, thus affecting the views of the citizens of the State they want and directing the atmosphere in a direction that serves their own purposes. As a result of the digitalisation, estimates have been made that the social change caused by digitalisation will be as great in the next 20 years as in the last 200 years. If this assessment is even partially accurate, the importance of cybersecurity will increase significantly as part of the security of our society. Mr President! The report on foreign and security policy clearly indicates that the security situation in Finland's neighbouring areas has also changed in a short period of time and that the situation has clearly tightened up from before. Finland must monitor the situation and contribute to creating a climate of discussion between different countries that reduces tension. It is important to work together, both through the EU and bilaterally, with the various countries in the region, so that we can help to normalise the situation in the Baltic Sea region.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u171	Mr President! After all, this report may have been drafted on purpose to focus mainly on the safety situation in Finland's surrounding environment. Of course, it has also dealt with a lot of security issues related to interdependence, as it should be. However, the so-called focus in our neighbourhood in the Baltic Sea region, which, as has already been said here in dozens of speeches, has gone in a very worrying direction. There has been a so-called negative cycle in the past in Georgia, Crimea and Ukraine. There has been a negative spiral in which the action has been answered by a countermeasure, and then the cycle is ready, and it has also thrown its own black colors into this Baltic region. How should this overall situation be viewed close to us? The report contains a good term, a good line: an active stability policy. I feel that this active stability policy is the opposite of driftwood thinking. Let us assume that Finland is not just a driftwood that is thrown away by big external factors and forces and goes where the power of Finland throws, but that we have an active role in our own destiny, in our own politics, in our neighbourhood, we are implementing active stability policies. This is how I feel about this. And this active policy of stability involves our acting in all forums in such a way that the conflict, the actual one, does not arise in the Baltic Sea region, in the Nordic region, and that our actions are always guided by a faciliationist attitude, and this is particularly the case with the President. The dialogue policy implemented by Niinistö towards Russia and towards the United States, which is quite natural and quite rightly the position of Finland. This includes closer cooperation between Finland and Sweden, taking good care of our own defences, strengthening EU security cooperation and all this, in which Finland should be active. So not driftwood, but active stability policy. There is wisdom in it, and it has been tested and found to be good in many.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u172	Madam President! It is a good thing that this report on foreign and security policy has been carried out and that it does not come any too soon. Power policy is being implemented in our neighbourhood, and the merit of this report now before Parliament is that this is recognised and recognised. The report gives the right picture of the security policy situation. One of the things to be commended for, even though the report does not say much about this, is that fortunately, the present military military army has been preserved. How difficult would we be now if we had a defence driven down in line with fashion a few years ago, as Sweden and, among other things, Germany have done? Now these countries are making up for this mistake, and it is expensive. Imagine our situation if, in the midst of all this, we now had to consider how to bring our defence system into line with the situation picture. No matter how much we talk here in Finland and hope for a defence alliance with Sweden, it may be that at its heart this wish is quite one-sided. In my interpretation, Sweden does not have such a state of will at all, if it exists at all. This issue is not specifically discussed there, but the focus of the debate is on the benefits and disadvantages of NATO membership. I predict that Sweden will apply for NATO membership in the next few years, regardless of what Finland does. This leads to the situation that we also have to resolve it in Finland. Will the East-West border be drawn from the east side of Finland as it is now or from the west side of our country in the next few years? Finland must apply for NATO membership. The talk of options and opening doors is beautiful, but will they help when the fire is loose? Being a member is also not a matter of course. The Finnish track record in the search for international organisations and tough international cooperation cannot be praised very much. A couple of years ago, a lot of fuss was aimed at becoming a member of the UN Security Council. Membership was considered almost certain, but in the end no one really supported Finland in the Security Council. The outcome was in strong contrast to the fantasy that was nurtured here in Finland. We really must ensure that such miscalculations are not made in the future. Madam President! The least we have seen in this debate today is hybrid influence and information warfare. However, they are an integral part of the ongoing European crises. The line between war and peace today is fickle. Fortunately, everyone is familiar with the term "hybrid war" or "hybrid effect". It is remarkable that the war can begin without a declaration of war, and it is not marked by dark bomber platforms or cannon fire from the front, but by vague cyber-induced disturbances in electricity distribution, water supply, vague inaction in society's important systems, sabotages and so on. Even now, Finland is an information influence target. Information influence is more sophisticated and sophisticated than old-time propaganda, which was more easily recognizable. False news, distorted articles in the press, and blocking the publication of real news are part of the means to influence information, trolls and other propaganda along with this. Even if the truth finally wins, it will take an unreasonable amount of time to correct the wrong information, and the debate will take place on the wrong issues. The decision-making process may be delayed, even if only by a few hours, which may be sufficient for the purpose of the counterparty. It may be that the people affected by massive information may not even realise that they are at war, or at least have an adequate understanding of it. This is something that we need to pay more attention to.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u173	Madam President! Also, warm congratulations! I didn't realize people had gone this far. I will not go further in repeating the very good speeches that have been heard here for half a day — the last time by a representative. The roll was perfectly right there to say the essence of this matter. In my opinion, Sweden learned to be independent and impartial in the hundreds of years of world history, and in some unique way it has gone to the Swedish heartlocks in a very permanent way, and they have succeeded in doing so. I refer, for example, to what Mr Haraka has just said in his reply, and I very much agree with them. Finland, too, has been emphasising commitment and impartiality since the last slump, and we have been learning it for a few decades now, and I have, among other things, considered it to be the right line. When such unilateral aggression was demonstrated from Russia, it is quite clear that it posed a security threat in the neighbouring region and particularly in the Baltic Sea region and, of course, is closely reflected in Finland and has led, among other things, to the foundations of today's well-prepared security policy debate. That is why it is very important that Parliament aligns our questions on these issues in great detail and with a great deal of speeches. Like the Swedes, we, the Finns — with the help of soldiers, after we once had a snotty neighbour with Russia and each time we got beat up — we finally learned this policy of non-partisanism and neutrality. We are a member of the United Nations, we are internationally well recognised in security matters and we are acting through diplomacy. I think it is right to ensure the security of Finland, which, as has often been mentioned, is maintained on the basis of general military duty, the defence of the whole region, the great reserve and so on. We must now consider this whole issue. But I am a little bit alien to the idea of once again emphasizing this foreign aid and looking for it, perhaps for reasons from the past, by immediately grasping the hand that is available to deepen our security. I refer to good speeches when, among other things, Mr Korhonen, Mr Hoskonen and most recently Mr Pakkanen spoke about cooperation with Russia, and Mr Kiviranta spoke about our trade. This trade is very important to Finland, and sanctions are very bad for us. With Europe divided into camps in the East and the West, we have quite rightly chosen the EU and its security systems and we are going to stick to them and highlight them, but I am somewhat alien to this heated NATO debate that we are having here. I very much agree with the Prime Minister and agree with him that, at least during this parliamentary term, Finland will not apply for NATO membership. Furthermore, I would like to stress that we should prefer to act by all diplomatic means as a mediator, as a doctor rather than a judge, with our own interests in mind, it must always be taken forward, but by means other than rifles and alliances. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u174	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 11/2016 vp. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u175	Madam Vice-President! A net increase of EUR 455 million and a net increase of EUR 222 million have been added to the amending budget on which the budget is based. The increases are made to the estimate of corporation tax and miscellaneous income, while the estimates of income from inheritance and gift taxes are reduced. The biggest increases are made to the costs of immigration, which are EUR 230 million, Terrafame Group Oy's capitalisation, EUR 144 million, and to the development of family and family care, EUR 49.3 million. Other changes include the power to sell real estate to Senate properties, and it is proposed to reduce the ownership limits for certain companies in accordance with the Government decision on ownership policy. The draft amending budget will increase the need for net government borrowing by around EUR 233 million and the net state borrowing will be estimated at approximately EUR 5.6 million in 2016. The amount of central government debt is estimated to be around EUR 106 billion at the end of the year. Mr President! In Section 30, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry adds EUR 30 million and notes that the corresponding amount has to be reduced from 2018 to 20, so that this accord is brought forward so that the existing mandate can be used more quickly, and this will also be relevant to the employment situation in the forest sector as regards the management of the seedling. Mr President! The committee's proposal for a decision is that Parliament approves the proposal for the second amending budget for 2016 included in the Government's proposal, subject to the above changes and Parliament rejects the amending budget initiatives, and that Parliament decides that the second amending budget for 2016 will apply from 27 June 2016. And again: five objections have been raised to this report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u176	Madam President! I will concentrate only on section 32, which is part of my section, the Section for Employment and the Economy. We in the section have studied this very carefully. We have heard about the Chairman of the Board of Directors Ratia, Group CEO Hieta and the CEO of the mine Lukkaro with great care when visiting the mining area. In addition, the whole management and all the shop stewards were there, and we talked to them for several hours. Once the entire committee has listened to the Chairman of the Board of Directors Lukkaro and CEO Hieta. During our visit to that mine, we gradually came to the conclusion that private funding must be found and the environmental issue and the water issue must be updated as it is now in operation, although there is plenty of water stored and the internal water cycle system has not yet been resolved. It has been resolved with good experimental results and results in such a way as to make it easier to extract sodium and also to precipitate lime, fertilization is possible. We gradually came to the conclusion that in its draft report, which subsequently came to the committee's report, the committee wants to mitigate some of the government's absolute position on the closure of the mine at the end of the year, provided, of course, that these environmental issues and external financing are mentioned above. In other words, the operation of the mine has been better off than anticipated. The new disassembly areas produce more than anticipated metals and then these foreign metals, and the old heaps, which have been paved, milling and mining, are well under way and are being made new heaps. Taking these into account and considering the economic results achieved at this price of nickel, which is too low, we were convinced that this time, as an exception to the recent promises made by Talvivaara Oy, we are on the right and sustainable path. Their promises have been fully true. Our confidence that this will succeed in the future, if this continues, increased. In line with this, the company will be on the plus minus zero score in early 18 and towards the end of 18 already on the plus side and would now require some 100 million additional funding in addition to funding. In this respect, it was particularly positive that, in addition to the government, opposition groups in the Chamber, with the exception of the Greens, were able to agree with this section's position. I am particularly pleased that both sos.dem. that the Left Alliance was involved in the creation of a common position which, incidentally, the present representative, Mr Haraka, among others, has a very high merit. As a result, while we were still taking into account the problems and the high unemployment figures currently being recorded in Kainuu, we came to the position that has now been expressed. Kainuu's unemployment has been 16% in April, about 5,350 people, and 950 people work there, and if they are suddenly put on the job, it is not necessarily fast but still in large numbers, unemployed — young, competent and motivated — it is not good for the Kainuu economy. When it is also often said that the country has already lost EUR 1.5 billion, that is obviously not the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u177	Madam Speaker! After all, Finland has been on the road to zero growth for a long time. Finally and finally, there may be a slightly more positive view. In 2005, the economy grew by 0.5%, an increase of around 1% is estimated for this year. The positive economic news is driven by an increase in domestic consumption and investment. People and businesses are already looking a little bolder at the horizon. The traditional cornerstone of our well-being, i.e. the industrial-oriented export sector, has not yet recovered as hoped. However, a joint agreement on competitiveness creates hope for this at least. But nothing comes of itself, that is clear. A firm approach and long-term action are needed to translate opportunities into concrete results. The amending budget under discussion contains many good things that show a goal-oriented approach to putting Finland in order. A €4.7 million contribution to transport routes that are important for the Äänekoski bioproduct plant will enable the plant to start operating even on an accelerated schedule. The plant brings numerous jobs to Central Finland and takes the forest industry of our country a leap towards the future. I would also like to highlight the EUR 49.3 million increase in family and family care. It is an excellent example of a reasonable course of action. You'd like to see more of this. There will be an improvement in the situation of carers. In the future, all family carers who signed the contract would receive at least two days’ leave per calendar month. In addition, family carers will also receive training and training as well as welfare and health checks. This will at least allow us to give a little credit for the work done by family carers to their loved ones and, at the same time, to society as a whole. Above all, it is a matter of very humanely valuable work, not to mention the minor but important fact that this activity also makes sense on all sides of the economy. This is the kind of action I hope the government will take further.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u178	Madam President! Mr Puumala and I, like the Socialist Group as a whole, hope that the government will take further significant steps towards employment. Once again, we are in a situation which we have often discussed over the past year, namely that we are dealing with an amending budget which, once again, has not taken up the fact that our unemployment statistics are truly alarming. We have a growing number of young people unemployed, long-term unemployment is increasing. By the way, there are currently 19,500 more long-term unemployed than one year ago, and we could not really close our eyes to such a development. At the same time as this development, the government will cut the budget for active labour market policies for this year by as much as 158 million. In practice, over the past year, the situation in the Employment and Economic Development Centres has been such that employment appropriations are inextricably exhausted, scarce, and this is what is seriously affected by the current situation and the development of employment. We in the opposition have constantly called for more employment appropriations to be made available at these times when we are dealing with amending budgets, so that we can be at a decent level. Our message is serious and we have shared this concern. Once again, despite the fact that the long-term practice in this House has been to monitor employment developments throughout the year and, as a result, to ensure the adequacy of the employment budget. This is not going to happen, and that is why we are once again making our own proposals for this amending budget. We are proposing more employment appropriations for 30 million, and we are also presenting a statement to the House for approval that will safeguard the employment of young people, the wage subsidy for the long-term unemployed, integration measures. And we have also talked very much about the fact that the government now needs to draw up a programme to combat long-term unemployment very urgently. That is simply what the government should be doing. All in all, Mr President, we have our objections to other matters as well. I would like to mention, among other things, the issue of housing. In other words, we suggest that the government urgently adjusts the terms of the long-term interest rate subsidy in order to build more affordable homes for people. The problem now is that this long-term interest rate subsidy, as it were, has become even less attractive when its improved, improved conditions have been placed in the wastebin during this government. At the same time, we see that now is also the time to invest in investment. It is now time to support employment through this too. That is why, for example, we are presenting in our own presentations a further 15 million. All in all, we will take a position here on Terrafame, which Mrs Harakka will be speaking about in her next speech. We also take a stand on corporate governance. We do not think that everything should be for sale. And that is why, President, in this context I would like to make the following statement to the general arguments in this report: 'The Commission requires that the ownership of companies with a strategic interest in activities essential to the functioning and continuity of society be maintained. This applies above all to Neste Corporation and Posti Group Oyj, whose state ownership should not be reduced from the present. In the case of other companies, case-by-case consideration should be carried out. The decisions concerning Kemijoki Oy should take into account the position of small investors." Thus, Mr President, this proposal and other proposals are included in our own objection to this committee's report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u179	My esteemed President, and congratulations also on my own behalf! I support Mrs Viitanen's reasoned statement. The amending budget therefore proposes EUR 144 million for the capitalisation of Terrafame Oy. The aim of the Social Democrats is clear and consistent. The aim is a profitable, employment-friendly and environmentally sustainable mine. It's no surprise the Greens want to close the mine. It may be my own limitations, but the position of the Left Alliance has remained unclear to me. It obviously depends on whether we talk in Helsinki or whether we talk in Kajaani. But is the goal set, profitable, employment-friendly and environmentally sustainable mining realistic? It is a question of EUR 100 million and another EUR 100 million and perhaps another EUR 3 million if we are to continue. When it comes to a job for a thousand people, which has a huge impact on the entire regional economy and the future of Kainuu, such a decision cannot be taken lightly for or against. If production rises to a profitable level, the environmental burden, from the point of view of water management difficulties as well as the quantity, quality and storage of waste from production, will also become a greater challenge. That is why we have required and still require an external, independent assessment of Winterfell's conditions for profitable, employment-friendly and environmentally sustainable production. The committee cooperated seriously and responsibly in its report. When the conditions for the lives of thousands of people are at stake, there is no room for unnecessary political pecking. Despite this good spirit of cooperation, this report was, for some reason, missing this absolutely necessary condition: an independent study of foreign experts, possibly, in order to genuinely shoulder responsibility now and tens, hundreds of years later. Honored Speaker! Employment is the first concern of the SDP at all times, but especially with regard to this additional budget. Long-term unemployment is increasing. In Uusimaa, for example, it has risen by almost 25 per cent in one year, i.e. in a quarter area where full employment should prevail, in the motor of the Finnish economy. 200,000 people are at risk of being completely excluded from working life, i.e. whether the economy is going to grow or not. There is clear evidence of this non-cyclical displacement from the 1990s. Even then, the bourgeois government ignored the increase and prolongation of unemployment. We therefore need an activating employment line, a working line. But the government, unfortunately, also sabotaged its own employment objectives in other ways. The most foolish project has been the increase in day care fees, which is a huge incentive trap for working women. In his previous post, Mr Vartiainen made a little mockery of the fact that "great slacking" is too tempting. When he was said to be Minister Stubb’s right hand, then the left hand did not know what the right one was doing, or the government was waxing with two left hands. I wouldn't be surprised. Fortunately, the government is retreating, and this may become a new addition to the list of government's best decisions, to the list of withdrawn decisions. On the other hand, the government also makes it difficult to employ itself. Confusional legislation, which requires 192 pages of guidance for employment and economic development offices, followed by outright arbitrary discouragement for anyone who wants to make a living based on their own skills and courage. And the latest attack is the decision of the Employment Protection Appeals Board, which refuses a member of the unemployment fund who is competent through the Employment Cooperative. The solution at least shows that self-employed people are allowed to live in constant uncertainty and that their legal security in Finland will not be fulfilled. I have therefore tabled a written question on this matter. Finally, my esteemed President, I encourage the government to recognise the facts. The employment rate is not sufficiently rising by the government's efforts. This additional budget also proves: it is time for a change of direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u181	Mr President! At the beginning of May, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry had to suspend the application procedure for funding for early care and young forest management. Before the suspension decision, Kemera's funding applications had already been launched for more than EUR 22 million. The Committee on Finance now added EUR 30 million to the power to grant Kemera aid for the current year. This will enable decision-making to continue and also the abolition of the application ban. The solution is important for loggers, forest owners and forest management associations. The financing of the additional budget will ensure the continuation of work in forests. The problem is not exactly the adequacy of the money. The application for aid had to be suspended because, on the basis of approved applications, the funds have been committed to nursing work which is now not even planned to be carried out, but perhaps only in a year or two. In particular, large forest industry companies have been involved in this. The provisions should therefore be amended so that the funds cannot, as it were, be set aside for years in advance, but only when the project is about to be implemented. Hopefully, a working group of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry will find a workable solution that serves the common good. The bureaucracy of the system must also be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u182	Mr President! There is no room for political pecking, Mr Harakka said, and he was guilty of this in his own speech when he spoke about the position of the Greens and Left Alliance in relation to Terrafame and Winterfell. It is clear that the situation in Terrafame and Winterfell is difficult and that the situation remains uncertain in the future. What the Left Alliance has said in this regard is that we consider the government's approach to preparing for a shutdown to be regrettable but in the right direction. As far as this amending budget is concerned, the main problem is what is still missing, which is that the government is still not responding enough to this difficult employment and economic situation in this amending budget either. Long-term unemployment, as we know, has been on the rise in Finland, and the level of employment appropriations has been inadequate throughout this term of government, also during this year, and this situation is still not being corrected in this amending budget. For this reason, the Left Alliance is proposing an additional 30 million for the pay subsidy and also for the start-up money. In addition, the Left Alliance's parliamentary group has been of the opinion that this amending budget should also have been prepared for the plight of agriculture by granting this crisis package presented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to alleviate the plight of agriculture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u183	Well, of course, this is not the main issue here, but I also said that it could be my own limitations in understanding, and I still admit that. I was just wondering if it was 16. May In Kainuu, the left was opposed to the shutdown. Mr Arhinmäki's statement was then headlined on 25 May. "Close Talvivaara quite the right solution", and now you did not stand up to President Juhantalo's description of how together the section and committee relaxed these conditions for closure. That this is the limit of my understanding, and that is all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u184	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u185	Madam President! Finnish agriculture is in an unprecedented crisis. In the mid-term debate on the state of agriculture, the whole Parliament was unusually unanimous on this issue. It is therefore disappointing that in this second amending budget of the year, the government does not show the EUR 48 million crisis package prepared by Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, Mr Tiilikainen, to overcome the worst of the crisis. I very much hope that the government will keep its word and bring some form of agricultural aid package right at the beginning of September. There is a shortage of money when it comes to the plight of agriculture. There is no shortage of money when it comes to supporting the Winterfell mine. Before the first and second amending budget, the Talvivaara mine has paid taxpayers more than EUR 640 million in additional appropriations. It is still not clear how the mine can handle its environmental responsibility and where private money can be obtained. Furthermore, it is not known how the processes of the mine work with certainty and how the legal basis for the operation of the mine can be established, while the world market price of nickel still remains and remains so low that the main product of the mine should not be sold. I am a little surprised, among other things, by the government's comments that everything will go on with Winterfell in the future like in Strömsö. As a result of the Nuasjärvi demolition pipeline, sulphates that inhibit the normal circulation of the lake’s water have accumulated in the depths of the Nuasjärvi back. Too many times I have already heard it said that this was not supposed to happen, even after Terrafame took control of the mine. The discharge pipe was originally to bring water to the mine and not to export sulphate - rich waters to Lake Nuas. The next problem is already around the corner when Terrafame is arguing in court whether or not its piles, side stones and waste basins are hazardous waste. According to previous estimates by the Talvivaara mine, this is the case, but Terrafame now disagrees. If further efforts are being made to drive up the well, few people have talked about increasing the reserve capacity, establishing a liability fund and using the pool mats required at the landfill. History repeats itself if it is allowed to repeat itself. Madam President! I take responsibility for the technical blunder which will prevent you from voting in favour of the proposal made by the Greens in committee tomorrow. The proposal did not reach the central office in time. Sorry about that. In the statement made in the committee, the Greens called for EUR 144 million to be spent on investment in water balance management and water purification and on mine dismantling. In all cases, care must be taken of the nature of Kainuu, the employment and economic activities of Kainuu and the people of the region. Therefore, the measures supported by the sudden restructuring of the region should start during the transitional period. Madam President! A year ago, we witnessed an unfortunate situation when the pay subsidy and start-up money ran out in early autumn. I therefore ask how the government will ensure that this is not the case this year. Although the government is seeking to tackle unemployment through structural reforms and through the Competitiveness Pact, I would remind you that adequate employment appropriations must also be an important part of the government's efforts. It is always better to pay for people to work than for people to remain unemployed. I look forward to it, and I demand that the government bring a significant employment package immediately to the beginning of the autumn season.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u186	Madam President! The amending budget provides for a number of very important and good increases in appropriations. The committee increased forestry management, forest management, sustainable forestry management, by over EUR 30 million. It is very important that this happened. It invests in forestry so that loggers do not become unemployed, seedlings are managed, the growth rate of the forest is accelerated and industry continues to receive sufficient quality wood. This is the right measure in this situation when the appropriations were insufficient. Mr President! Another pleasant and important aspect of the amending budget is the additional allocation for family and family care, just under EUR 50 million. It focuses on activities that are extremely valuable and important. There have been long discussions here last week. That's good. The main issue in the amending budget is the EUR 144 million transfer for the capitalisation of Terrafame Group Oy. We have already heard here an excellent report by the section president on the matter and the situation there in Kainuu in this regard. I am also, and the group that I represent, very pleased that this line received very broad support in committee, and now that I think it has happened that the representative The wave can't make the show, and this position will come into the minutes unanimously. But we do know the position of the Greens. As such, this issue is very difficult and must be taken very seriously. The big money, but also from the point of view of employment, Kainuu, from the point of view of Finnish society as a whole, from the point of view of taxpayers, is extremely serious and important. I am confident at the moment that the Committee on Finance and its Section for Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is very much committed to this line, and we therefore feel securely about what is happening here, and we hope that production will be able to move forward there. My own view is that the method used there is very cheap in terms of operating costs when it is made to play, and at the moment it seems to be a functioning system. But the other problems are still big, and hopefully there'll be a sponsor. Mr President! The big issue with this additional budget is also the cost of immigration. We know that almost EUR 0.5 billion has already been committed to the actual budget, and now EUR 230 million is being proposed for this, and these will come on top of what is, as it were, the normal year's budget for immigration. These calculations can be used to calculate that immigration this year will cost Finnish taxpayers about a billion dollars. It is a huge sum, considering that 32,000 immigrants came last autumn and this year the government estimates that there will be 15,000, and at that time the costs are extremely high, and it is quite openly and honestly worth considering without any extra weights whether this billion is justified, reasonable and whether the whole system should be taken into consideration. That money, a billion dollars, would help a huge crowd of people to live human life somewhere else. But in Finland the cost level is so huge and the bureaucracy is spinning and the amounts are like this. Mr President! The Social Democrats have raised the issue of the employment appropriations that are missing from this budget, and I note that this happened a year ago, too, that there was a budget created by Mr Rinne and that it ran out of money in May. And now, of course, it has been budgeted in this way this year that the money will not be enough to cover what the Social Democrats are asking for, and then, during your last term of office, 100,000 new unemployed, who are now in the process of becoming long-term unemployed. Last season should have been more effective and this situation would not be as bad as it is at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u187	Let us take one reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u188	Mr President! Yes, the Finns themselves must admit that it is this government that is cutting the employment budget for this year by EUR 158 million in this situation. It is a little different from that of the Finns, namely that when they were in the opposition, they had to have a plus for their alternative budget, which is more or less the same amount of money, so this is a really big turn around in terms of words and actions. Unemployment is a serious matter, and I would say to the previous speaker that at the moment, Mr Kangasniemi, there are no more people working than last year, but fewer people working than last year. You would think that, in this situation, it would not be possible to underestimate this situation overall. As has been said many times, contrary to what was explicitly provided by this government in the previous government, it was possible to intervene in the employment budget in the middle of the year always according to its situation, and this was often the case in the amending budget. That is why I now appeal to the government parties to remedy the situation in this case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u189	There was Mr Kankaanniemi and Mr Ihalainen, both in response.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u190	Mr President! During the last parliamentary term, debt was taken out of proportion to the state and the debt burden was also transferred to the municipalities in a large way. Nevertheless, unemployment worsened by 100,000, and indeed your measures were not effective in this respect. Recent unemployment statistics now show that unemployment growth has stalled. The problem is that we have a legacy such as that of huge unemployment, but now the government has put a stop to the growth that the previous government failed to achieve.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u191	Let us take one reply, Mr Ihalainen. Then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u192	Mr President! Indeed today new unemployment figures were published: 332,000 unemployed, or 2,500 more than a year ago. But the most problematic problem is that we now have 125,000 long-term unemployed, unemployed over a year, and about 19,500 more than a year ago. You heard me right. Although unemployment in general has started to fall short, unemployment is constantly being prolonged, there is no way out. Therefore, if this government's employment objective is to be met in the future, 72% or 110,000 new jobs, it will require this prolonged unemployment to be tackled. This would require the preparation of a programme for the fight against long-term unemployment, and we, as a group, have made proposals in this regard and we would also like to present them to the government parties. The most serious problem is this social exclusion caused by prolonged unemployment, and we must tackle this much more seriously than we are doing now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u193	Let us go back to the list of speakers for a while, and while I ask Mr Korho to come here, I would like to wish you all the best. This would be my last turn on this mission. Thank you for all of you, you guys are great!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u194	Mr President! I was already thanking the President on behalf of all the Members in the Chamber, but it sounded to me that everyone was thanking each other individually, with one voice. President! Brief comments on this amending budget on just two or three points: Firstly, here, Mrs Aalto raised the issue of agriculture, and in many ways these ideas can only be shared. So, of course, with regard to agriculture, solutions must be found, firstly, to this acute cash crisis, to which the government is now seeking clear solutions, but of course it is also essential to find solutions for the long-term viability of agriculture and then to seek solutions. Well, then to this motion by the Committee on Finance to increase the Kemera mandate by EUR 30 million. The proposal is extremely important in many ways. As has been said here, this is an important decision for Finnish forestry, i.e. this now guarantees early seedling care, the continuation of young forest management and the continuation of health fertilisation. And of course, it cannot be underestimated that it is estimated that some 700 lumberjacks can then continue to work in Finnish forests on this basis. This Kemera decision is also one of those decisions which, overall, build the foundation of the Finnish forest bioeconomy, and this is also one of those decisions that raise the employment rate in Finland. The committee is also right to draw attention to the fact that these powers must now be put in place quickly, and it is also worth agreeing with what has been said here that, overall, this system of assistance for Kemera should now also be assessed in order to make it clearer. Well, then this capitalisation of Terrafame Group Oy for EUR 144 million — an extremely important decision. It was good to hear Mr Juhantalo's speech earlier in this connection, the president of the Section for Employment and the Economy. It is a good thing that these points of view in the section are now included in the report as a whole in this committee. I personally see that this 144 million is, to the greatest extent, funding for the continuation of this mine exodus. In my worldview, this is not funding for downsizing. This is funding for upswinging this mine. The Government has stated in its own decisions that Terrafame needs private funding this year. It is therefore extremely important that this mining process, as a whole, should be put in place. The brilliant staff of the mine have now been able to demonstrate that this process is always going in the right direction. It has been great to hear expert assessments that the Winterfell mine has never worked as well as it currently does in this process. And if private funding is to be provided for this, it is of course essential that this mining process be put in place, that water problems be put right, and it is quite clear that, in the face of environmental safety, this activity cannot be continued. I would also like to thank you for the many views — views that seem to go across party boundaries — that there is concern here in Parliament about the situation in Kainuu, if the worst thing happens in the case of Terrafame, in relation to Winterfell. Terrafame employs In Kainuu, it has about a thousand people directly, indirect effects another such in Finland. If these employment effects are proportionate to the capital region, this Terrafame-Talvivaara corresponds to the jobs of several tens of thousands of people in this area, and this, for its part, illustrates the enormous difficulty of replacing this. But I am grateful that the government has also said for its part that the needs of Kainuu are being met and, on the other hand, we in Kainuu are always making a growth plan, including at the moment. If, for some reason, a negative solution comes, then of course we will make every effort to find solutions from the point of view of employment, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u195	Madam President! In his own speech, Mr Korhonen said out loud what many have expected and read between the lines. So in the words of Mr Korhonen, his mindset of this 144 million is that it is used to drive up a mine, not to pull down. Perhaps that is why I did not receive the support of anyone other than the RKP for the draft statement made in the Committee on Budgets. It called for this money to be allocated specifically for investment in water balance management and water purification and for the mine to be dismantled. Perhaps Mr Juhantalo or Mr Korhonen will be able to answer these questions, which I raised earlier in my own speech about the problems of the mine — and I will just say that Terrafame Group Oy has also said in its own statement that there are promising results, but no assurance can be given as to how this process will work in the future, not to mention when the mine is operating at full power.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u196	Mr President! I think the government's policy is perfectly clear. While Terrafame is further capitalised, the Government has stated that it is possible to continue to drive up operations if Terrafame finds new private financing for Winterfell during this year. In this situation, it is quite difficult to obtain private funding if the mine is not able to demonstrate that these mining processes are working. And at the moment it looks good, those processes go ahead, but the big problem is this water balance, which is linked to a few environmental permit decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u197	Madam President! Perhaps it is precisely because the water balance is not under control that there is no information on how to clean the water properly, and there is nothing more than promising results from the processes, legal certainty is lacking, or the legal base is shaken than the Finnish man in Midsummer Night at the moment. It is precisely all these facts that can be seen here that show that there is no private money coming. That is why the talk of EUR 144 million being used specifically for this uplifting and the opening of new mines is justified by the water balance — since these previous decisions to open new mines have not helped the water balance before, how do they help it now?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u198	Mr President! Perhaps it will be possible to lighten the serious issue a little, that Mrs Aalto believes that Terrafame will not receive private funding during this year. I, on the other hand, Mr President, believe that Terrafame will receive private funding on this side of the year as these mining processes are made work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u199	Now let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u200	Madam President! At the time of this second amending budget, we have come across the budgetary framework. We now have an allocation of 90 million for the third amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u203	Madam President! The Government will continue to pursue its inadequate employment budget policy. As with previous amending budgets, yet again, we are calling for employment appropriations. Thus, the non-targeted employment appropriations have again not been allocated in the context of the amending budget. They'd have been missed. In order to improve employment, action by the government is needed, a wide range of measures are needed. Among other things, support for start-up money and paid employment would have supported employment. Unfortunately, the government has chosen otherwise. Another important point that needs to be raised is, of course, the situation in Terrafame, which has also spoken here earlier today. The money given to Terrafame Group Oy should be directed to the end. Mr Alasajo must start by directing the EUR 144 million allocated in the amending budget to investments to improve the state of the environment, for example in order to address water balance problems. It is clear that Terrafame employs a considerable number of workers locally and that the future of the mine has an impact on the lives of a large number of people. That is why it is very important to reduce unemployment caused by the recession. It is important to take care of people in the region with various employment measures on a really fast schedule. It is also good that the amending budget allocates appropriations to the asylum situation. In general, it is very important to deal quickly with asylum seekers' applications and it is also very important to support their access to education and employment. We all agree that it is very important that integration is successful. In order to be able to invest properly in this, it is indeed necessary to get asylum expenditure outside the spending limits.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u204	Mr President! When the undivided reserve at the current spending limits level is only the 94 million and when there are huge needs, then, of course, it will be necessary to consider whether some state-owned companies should be able to change some limits so that there is room for manoeuvre in order to create something new that will increase and enable new work and employment. Tomorrow, when we are discussing the budgetary plan, all these questions in principle will be answered by the committee. As regards long-term unemployment, for example, it is necessary for the government not only to take structural measures but also to find clear ways of finding answers to this question raised by Mr Ihalainen. However, this amending budget only addresses a few problems, and when this allocation is similar, we have to find some room for manoeuvre, and there is only room for manoeuvre through structural reforms and the fact that these limits of ownership can be dismantled so that capital can be found there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u205	Madam President! There is also room for manoeuvre in the economic policy package on which economic policy choices are made. And if such choices are made to cut off key areas, people's purchasing power, education, then it is likely that a circle will be created that is negative and will curl up the economy: the economy will not grow, jobs will not be created, tax revenues will not accumulate, and we will take on more debt. Contrary to what was being said here, debt would be reduced, not reduced. This year there will be EUR 5.6 billion in debt, as estimated by the Committee on Finance next year by EUR 5.8 billion. The debt is being taken more and more because this cycle is on, and the cycle is coming from the fact that this has not been the case for a year with sufficient employment measures. I would like to express this same concern as Mr Ihalainen before. At a time when we are making drastic cuts to the employment budget, as it were, we are living in a situation where there are 19500 more long-term unemployed than one year ago, and that is why it is absolutely necessary to do this programme to combat long-term unemployment right away, immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u206	Madam President! Some speakers have said that there are also positive small signs. These marks are precisely possible because households have, however, trusted, bought and thus generated more tax revenue, and construction as a whole has been the second. Of course, I must admit that the purchasing power of those people who depend on social security has not developed, and that is why it is precisely these people and those who are long-term unemployed who must find some means that can then be resolved in that budgetary plan, unfortunately not with this additional budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u207	Mr President! I will come back to what I said in my previous speech: economic policy choices are precisely what create the leeway. And if the choice of economic policy is what Mr Kalli admits that the low incomes do not have enough purchasing power, then the government's solution is not to give the low incomes a little relief, for example, to the tax burden, but, on the contrary, the government's solution is to cut even further the purchasing power of these low-income, the poorest people, and it is a truly disastrous path. It is not only humanly wrong, it is also very unwise in economic policy. Middle-income families, often with a tight economy, are vaccinated with increased day care fees. I hope, however, that this decision to withdraw will now be maintained by the government and will not, as it now appears, withdraw it. The taxation of pensioners was unequaled compared to employees. We Social Democrats in our own option have offered solutions that would ease the burden of people with low and middle incomes and increase purchasing power and thus increase purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u208	Madam President! It is true that long-term unemployment and unemployment are a serious problem. Mr Kalli called for structural changes to be made in order to reduce unemployment, particularly long-term unemployment. At this point it must be wondered that when the only bright spots in the government's programme are a basic income experiment, it has now been heard that the government is, due to a lack of money, restricting the basic income experiment to just 10,000 long-term unemployed and rejecting Kela's offer of help. Kela has offered the government assistance to increase by five times the number of people who would take part in the basic income test and thus to include people in all types of labour market positions, not only the long-term unemployed, whose employment in this employment situation through basic income is very limited. I'm surprised that when the government's direction is overturned that there's no money, then we don't take it from Kela's direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u209	Madam President! On behalf of Mr Kalli: Mr Kalli, as Chairman of the Committee on Finance, has probably also noticed what the Bank of Finland has said about Finland's economic development and also what the committee's report aims at saying that growth will remain subdued and that the engine of small growth is essentially the domestic market. If domestic demand is reduced by excessive cuts, it will also lose the tax base and the purchasing power of people will not be sufficient for small and local companies. It also causes companies to suffer, and it is precisely this negative cycle, through which domestic demand is falling and unemployment is rising, and that is the place to choose. Mr Viitanen, the Greens and the Left Alliance, the whole opposition, have been trying to remind us of this for a long time, but unfortunately the government has chosen this circle of negative spirals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u210	Mr President! Now, however, there was such a feeling in that debate, especially on behalf of our Minister for Labour, Lindström, that as if he did not care at all about the unemployed and the long-term unemployed even less and we had a lot of money, we are just making bad value choices. However, this is not only the case. I believe that the government has tried to introduce activation measures. Minister Lindström has brought many of them, he has told us that he is listening to the opposition. However, we have a rather serious economic situation, and we are not just buttering up a shortage of money, but we are in a very tight financial situation. However, over the years, we have come up with a lot of debt and unemployment. Everyone understands that a ship this size won't turn in an instant. Now we have a Kiki agreement, tax relief through it. Let's hope there's more marriages. I wish we could use the rhetoric that it really is. Has the Prime Minister, or, for example, our Minister of Labour, in any way conveyed the impression that we do not care and do not try?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u211	Let us move on with this list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u212	Mr President! According to the report we have received, 70% of the world's mining industry is currently having negative results. The rise and fall in mineral prices are quite gentle but steep. When Winterfell was started, the nickel amounted to EUR 50000 per tonne, currently around 8500, where it has been made up for several years. In addition to nickel, the mine produces twice as much zinc as its by-product of nickel. The price of zinc worldwide is cheap, around EUR 1000 per tonne, but it has started to rise more quickly. It already contributes to the low price of nickel on the world market alone, and if the world market price gradually rises to between EUR 17000 and EUR 18000 per tonne, then the Winterfell mine will be very profitable. As I recall, Ford went bankrupt a few times before the car production began to produce. Industrial activity is like this, demanding capital. We have little state capital, and it is understandable that we will not always be able to make it to the end, but we have had misfortune. Just at the last minute we have abandoned or sold industrial activities abroad and later we have repented. Will there now be a man and a woman on the green road to the street if we cover up the price of that mine and the price of nickel would go up quickly and there have been promising euros?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u213	Let us go to this list of speakers, and there will be room for further requests to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u214	Mr President! When you really want something, you want to believe it even if the messages about reality are different. This has happened with Terrafame. Government parties still seem to have great credit for finding private money in the mine to run it, although in reality the only entity that has recently put in Winterfell is the state, as it is now. The amending budget proposes EUR 144 million to be put there. However, there is reason to look the truth in the eye and it is good to remember that the nickel reserves there will survive if there ever comes a situation when it is wise to use them and if there is such technology in use that it can be done in an environmentally friendly way. It would now be important to get control of the water balance and use this money to clean up the water, and that will also help to prepare the mine for dismantling, because these will be in front of us in any case. The second thing I want to raise here is the money for employment. It is quite true that employment money in itself is not a sustainable response to the management of employment; it is a need for new jobs. But there is also a need for employment money, because, as has been pointed out here, the number of long-term unemployed has risen again, and it is precisely to these people that employment money and pay subsidies are the way in which they get away with the job. We know that there are, for example, a number of organisations in the country that have jobs to offer, but they have great concern that the wage subsidies are threatening to end for a year at this stage. Therefore, it would have been wise to include in this amending budget a share of employment funds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u215	Mr President! It is true that these latest economic projections are not very bright. After all, the Bank of Finland carried out the previous assessment of GDP growth and the low yield on exports, and then its impact on our economy and employment. We are very dependent on domestic demand now, but we will not be able to cope with it if we do not expand new exports and export base and thus increase growth. However, the most significant economic policy measure in this area has recently been the establishment of this agreement, which in the longer term will also have a positive impact on employment development and will provide stability and predictability anyway, and it is good that this contractual society has taken on and made these decisions. But when we talk about the dramatic increase in long - term unemployment, this has to do with the government’s commitment to the budget line to take further measures to manage employment. We think that the most serious problem now is this increase in prolonged unemployment, and that is why there must be some ways in which these measures will break this increase in prolonged unemployment. That is why we have drawn up our own programme for it, and we also hope that the government will draw up a programme to combat long-term unemployment. Otherwise, this general government target of 72% employment rates and 110,000 new jobs will not happen, that is so serious. Then I read the same figures today for young people, 41,800 young people under the age of 25, and in part it is because the funding of the Youth Guarantee was simply driven down. I am very sad about it, for many reasons. It would have done a lot for the employment of young people. The third point I would like to draw attention to is the point on ownership policy in this supplementary budget. We had a good discussion here about ownership policy, and I would like to remind you that this is how we think that strategic companies with a majority of states have so far been Fortum, Neste and Finnair. Now, in general, the limit of this strategic interest is to be dropped from 50.1% to 33.4. In general, I find it a little problematic and especially in the case of liquid. We shouldn't have dropped this limit on less than 50 liquids, that's our idea. And the second, of course, relates to the future of Posti, so that first we should decide what kind of Posti Finland and the citizens need, and then we should ask ourselves whether there is a need for a stock exchange listing, if we need it in general, and what the future of Posti's development is. In this way too, this should and should be dealt with, so I just wanted to remind you of the importance of ownership policy and strategic companies in terms of our security of supply and social development. And now it is common to say in relation to Winterfell: This is, of course, a problem in many ways, but if we find ourselves in a situation where the mine ends, then a thousand jobs plus a thousand jobs indirectly — these little tricks will not be able to provide work for those people. We must then assume that there is a high level of unemployment and that there will not be replacement jobs on a fast-track basis, no matter how much you wish. And of course we must strive for a plan to retrain and employ these people, but we must also see these facts that finding 2,000 people new jobs in Kainuu is not just a click like this that society puts 144 million into that purpose. However, I also wanted to speak on behalf of these workers that this time, which has now been arranged here, will also allow these people to look for a new path and a new job if the situation goes down. That this aspect should also be borne in mind. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u216	Madam President! In this speech, Mr Ihalainen's speech, there was a lot of wisdom and sense, and I do hope that the honourable government parties will now listen to Mr Ihalainen's message about long-term unemployment as well as how it can be possible that, in this situation, the Youth Guarantee will be pushed down. How can that be? I simply cannot understand this. And here it is always said, as once again, today, by the Finns, that you do not understand now that there is only no money, and then you do not have a choice. Politics is about making value choices and making line choices. There is enough money for this government to reduce taxes on millions of inheritances, for example, because there is enough money to calculate the car tax, but then when we talk about the management of unemployment, for example, there will be an unhelpful end to the money, the employment budget will be cut and growth will be put at risk, and then the bad circle will be turned around. So it is a question of value choices in politics, and that is why I would like it not to be said here in such a way that there is never a choice or there is no money left if there is enough of them elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u217	Madam President! I would now like to mention just one more issue from the economic evaluation, which concerns the whole of Northern Finland and, of course, Kainuu, in particular, what to do about the Terrafame mine in Winterfell. In its amending budget, the Government proposes additional funding — again, now EUR 144 million. Of course, this wasn't supposed to happen. The fact is that leaving the mine to its own devices is not possible. If — and now I say ‘when’ is likely to be driven down — the mine will, according to some estimates, cost at least EUR 300 million. Of course, both the state and small investors will lose their investments in this case with interest. Whatever is done, environmental liabilities must be taken care of: the waste water must be cleaned, the already polluted water bodies must be repaired, both gypsum and sewage basins must be disposed of until the end. After all, Kainuu’s mine giant fell into the arms of the state as a combination of the collapse of the nickel world market price, the crisis of environmental problems and the inaction of the mine’s chosen technology, the bio-dissolving method. The financial risk has been significant for a long time. No private investors have been found to rescue the mine, neither before nor after the decision on the environmental permit for the Nuasjärvi demolition pipeline. So the government pays. The explanatory memorandum to the environmental permit decision for the much-speaked demolition pipe states that the considerable uncertainties I mentioned are the reason for the time limit for the permit. In order to justify the calculation of the emission limits, it is stated that the target water bodies in discharge waters would not be able to withstand any more. It is also noted that no nickel, cadmium and mercury must be present in the discharge waters. That is why water must be cleaned better at the beginning of the process. Investment in waste water treatment and water balance management is therefore needed, in any case, in all options. I am sure it is right that, despite all the problems caused by the mine, the funding of state resources has been generously given the opportunity, even on many occasions, to remedy matters. I'm sure there's been a lot of attempts in the mine to make a prime, if there's a wolf in the middle, a pretty big one. In the light of current knowledge, it seems that there is no prospect of a change for the long term. The financing of Winterfell Terrafame with hundreds of millions of euros in the name of employment in the Kainuu region cannot continue unless market-based operations at the mine are smooth, environmental problems are solved and the process is able to function under all the pitted conditions. If you have little to relate to: According to the Energy Agency, wind power had been supported by state resources in early 2016 with a total of approximately EUR 226 million since the start of the feed-in tariff. The desired value has also been achieved, i.e. electricity and additional capacity for the renewable energy market. This form of support ends. A new, perhaps fairer, renewable energy support system is under way. To date, more than EUR 500 million has been put into Winterfell from the state treasury, including funding through Finnvera and Solidium. One year ago, Parliament increased its funding from the well by EUR 100 million, in the autumn by an additional EUR 209 million, and this spring, too, EUR 38.5 million has been crushed. At this rate, the cash register is really becoming bottomless. Of course, a lot of work has been done, including tax revenues, one large bankruptcy and environmental problems. This cannot be continued year after year. Now is the time to look in the mirror and direct the additional funding right. It is not, therefore, for the inexhaustible exhalation of mining activities with problems and risks, but for the necessary and responsible steps to be taken in a controlled shutdown. That too is a matter of years of work. Activity at the mine in no alternative stops like a wall.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u218	Madam President! I am not in the habit of interfering with old things, but now I have to go back a little while when I think about this treatment of long-term unemployment. During the recession of the 1990s, Finland was on its knees and we had almost half a million unemployed job seekers in this country. Recalling what Lipponen’s first government, in which the Left Alliance was involved, went on to employ a great deal and gave the funds to cut unemployment off with state appropriations. We did that job. At the time, I was the head of the trust. I went around the construction site. Hundreds of them went through the city of theft every year as I handled their affairs. The best thing they got in response was that it was the best way to maintain work, maintain professional skills, that someone took care of them and looked after them, that they had the opportunity to earn their own income and livelihood and social security. Now that you look at the measures taken by the current Sipilä government, there has come to be some impression that this long-term unemployment is something that you do not want to take care of properly. We are in this kind of innovation and digital rush that we are just talking about here that this will get it employment up and raise the employment rate to 72 per cent. On the other hand, these figures for the long-term unemployed seem to be so terrible that it cannot be achieved. That is why I am really sorry and I find it really bad that the government does not invest in this long-term unemployment care and increases this budget, which gives people an employment relationship and the opportunity to earn their living by working.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u219	Madam President! I will answer the questions to the Greens and to me. The respected representative Juhantalo asked whether the Greens would admit their mistakes if the world market price of nickel rose. Mr Harakka said earlier that no one would be surprised that the Greens were calling for the mine to be dismantled, and Mr Ihalainen stressed the concern about the employment impact of the mine dismantling. I'll take it as a whole. First of all, the Greens have also given many opportunities for the continuation of the Winterfell mine. We have given the opportunity and wanted to believe in both Winterfell and Terrafame's promises. This is because, as the honourable representative, Mr Ihalainen, has pointed out, the impact on employment is so significant. That is why, during this process, the Greens have also given opportunities and wanted to believe in these promises. But even to this day there is no certainty as to the legal basis of the mine, the management of environmental responsibilities, private money and the functioning of processes, this cannot be repeated over and over again. The financing of the mine up to the bottom of the canal leads to an increasing cost of maintaining the mine day by day and all this little money is out of the money that should be given there to support Kainuu’s employment, business structure, the management of the necessary environmental responsibilities, to help man and nature in Kainuu.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u220	Mr President! We talked about the consumption of low incomes and tax solutions. In this context, although this debate will probably take place in more detail in the context of the budgetary plan, I would like to point out that the competitiveness pact is hitting the low-income wage earners the hardest. People in the public sector are losing a lot of their vacation money. Representative Andersson recently made a startling calculation here that, according to Statistics Finland, the income level of a nearby nurse would fall by as much as EUR 130 per month and that, in concrete terms, the hourly salary would fall by hourly-paid people in trade and accommodation. It is therefore extremely important that these planned tax reductions should be directed at those on low and medium incomes. We have not yet received any assurance from the government, but here I appeal to Mr Lintilä's earlier statement. Another issue related to unemployment and long-term unemployment: I was referring to the experiences of the '90s. There's a term in economics like "hysteresis." It tells us precisely that economic growth and employment are moving at different paces. When unemployment exceeded 10 percent in 91 C.E., it was only seven years later, during an unprecedented time of Nokia’s growth, that unemployment fell back to less than 10 percent. This means that employment will improve and unemployment will fall much after the economy itself has already been mobilised. It is therefore not possible to hope that economic growth will solve the problem of unemployment, but that the problem of unemployment will require an active effort here and now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u221	I agree with what Mr Ihalainen said. When we visited Kainuu, we got the impression — mainly young and highly motivated — that if the mine were stopped, it would be a loss to Kainuu because, according to the opinion there, most of them would be located south and absent. Kainuu's efficient market. With regard to the fact that the money has gone to Terrafame for its pennies, the regional economic impact assessment has not been carried out, but it has been provisionally examined that the cash flows out of Terrafame are divided into corporate taxes and staff side costs, estimated at around 9% and 11 percent of the VAT and other taxes paid by Kainuu people and 14 percent of the money going out of the company. So not everything has gone to futility, but the Kainuu and the State have been used back to that extent, according to these reports. With regard to the hope that if it is closed and the price of nickel rises rapidly, the closure process will take between 20 and 30 years. The surface area of the mine and the nickel and zinc reserves are very high, but they are low in concentration in the abundant surface area. If the mine is effectively shut down, it seems to be incredibly difficult to get it off — is it at all possible? It should be kept up until these environmental conditions, private money and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u222	Mr President! The amending budget allocates 144 million to Terrafame’s mining activities in Talvivaara. The problem with the government's proposal is that mining in Winterfell will continue, as it is now time to start a controlled shutdown. The area has 9 million cubic metres of sewage containing heavy metals and sulphate. The Government will provide this additional funding without, however, requiring additional investment in water purification systems, which are necessary. Of course, in the run-down of the government, the nickel that emerges from the existing heaps will be recovered and properly disposed of waste water so that they do not threaten the nature of Kainuu and human health. Mr President! I would also like to talk about the employment budget. First of all, Mr Ihalainen made an excellent speech on how the Youth Guarantee has been driven down, which is an unsustainable solution. For a young person, even a short period of time inactive can be a serious road to exclusion, but on the other hand, there is always hope and opportunity for young people. If a youth is taken over and helped, a helping hand is handed out, his entire future may be saved. That is why this Youth Guarantee and the funds allocated to it and the workshops, the outreach youth work, are so important. Employment appropriations should have been increased already, as last summer they ran out of employment offices. First of all, we ran out of support for people with disabilities, but even beginners were told that there was no start-up money. So those with a business idea couldn't put the company up when the start-up money was gone. More employment money now, government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u223	Mr President! Regardless of the amount of optimism that is now facing these prospects for the Talvivaara mine, I am perhaps somewhat surprised at these speeches about the use and use of this capitalisation, because I am in the understanding that, whatever the fate of the mine, money is needed for these environmental investments in order to control this water balance and, in any case, investment is also needed to ensure environmental safety. When the Section for Economic Affairs of the Committee on Finance visited them on the spot, they were also informed that it was also necessary to drive them up first. In other words, the continuation of this activity is also a prerequisite for this shutdown at some point in time to be carried out in a controlled manner. A brief comment on Mr Haraka's points of view on tax solutions: The Left Alliance has stressed that if we want to revitalise the economy and support domestic demand through income tax relief, it is extremely important that these be directed at all low-income Finns. Public investment is certainly a more effective means of recovery in the recession than tax reductions, but if this recovery is to be done precisely through taxation, then it is necessary to target citizens with the greatest possible purchasing power. That is why we ourselves have argued that this should be done, for example, by raising the basic reduction in municipal taxation, which also avoids a situation where, for example, the difference between the taxation of pensioners and employees is increasing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u224	Madam President! I fully agree with Mr Harakka on this tax allocation, and that is why I wanted to take this floor again, because just now, when we were talking about purchasing power, I have just stressed that the people of low and middle income are a very important part of our population. They are already having enough difficulty, difficult times, concern about tomorrow, many cuts are being made there, so it is really important that these tax solutions specifically take into account the low and middle incomes. President! I would also like to point out here what the Social Democrats have long been concerned about here and what many times they have also asked the government parties to reply to, and this is, of course, the tax treatment of pensioners. In other words, contrary to what the government parties promised in the run-up to the elections, and in particular the coalition, the government unequaled the taxation of pensioners in relation to employees. This is a great injustice, it is a failure of promise and also a very important, important issue for the life of pensioners. Yes, quite a few pensioners have come to me to wonder when I have travelled around Finland and Pirkanmaa and discussed these issues. That is why I think it is very necessary that, when we make these possible tax reductions, hopefully for those on low and medium incomes, at the same time we correct this mistake made by the government once and for all, and this tax gap will be corrected. There is a bit of a strange background here that, first of all, there was a promise of another in the elections, then another was done, specifically by the Minister for the Coalition Party, then the members of the Assembly made a statement that this was wrong, that this must be corrected — that is to say, the very thing that they themselves had just accepted. Now that the coalition itself has demanded this, then I hope that there will also be evidence that the government will take action in this area and will correct this injustice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u225	Madam President! In my earlier summary speech, I forgot to mention to Mr Juhantalo this nickel price on the world market. The overall estimate is that if the world market price of nickel is approaching that USD 12,000 per tonne, then demand and supply on the market for precious metals will also lead to the re-importation of stocks of nickel stocks. It is pushing down that price again, and it is, although it is possible to generate additional zinc revenues to cover these losses, that overall effect of zinc and cobalt sales cannot be folded in such a way as to generate a positive cash flow, and that is the big problem in this matter. Representative Andersson brought up the idea that when driven up, it is possible to pull down. That is based on the idea that mining increases the amount of volatility, and the problem here is that this has also been said in the past. This has been said in the past, but how can we be convinced — because this has not worked before — that it will work now?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u226	Madam President! Mr Juhantalo, I would like to comment briefly on the points you raised, the first of which reminds me of the process, the method used at the Terrafamen Winterfell mine. It's a bio-dissolving technique. We have already heard Mr Korhonen's assurances in this Chamber that this method is now working perfectly. I think it is a little late to say it now in 2016, when the process has already started in 2007 and 2008. From miners themselves, I have found out what that method is intended for. It's meant for warm, dry climate conditions. Well, they don't rule in their Kainuu this year. It has a cool, humid climate like the whole of Finland. Of course, we have had regional economic impacts on Northern Finland. Of course, we have received tax resources in exchange for the contributions made by the state to Winterfell and Terrafame. I am concerned about the employment and future of Kainuu, as a Member of Parliament and especially as a representative of the Northern Parliament, if and when the mine is likely to be driven down. However, as a responsible representative, I am also concerned about the question of whether the role of the state as a venture investor, a venture funder, a project in which the whole future is largely based on faith and hope and market speeches in the mining sector, that the world market for nickel will be managed there and everything else will be taken care of as long as time is waiting. We can't afford that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u227	Mr President! I agree with Mrs Haraka that in this kiky agreement, public workers will have to pay more when they become more than these employees' unemployment insurance and health insurance contributions and then they will have this holiday allowance cut, which will also happen in the same way, even if they have holidays of the same length as private people. But this is what employees' organisations and employers' organisations have negotiated. At one meeting I myself said that if this came to Parliament it would probably not go through the Constitutional Committee. Well, they looked at me a little bit like what he was talking about. But I fully agree with that. On the other hand, STK, like the SAK, has believed in the employment impact of this package and in the improvement of purchasing power. After all, they have a lot more faith in the new jobs that this will create than the government. Hope fits and calls for this to happen. It is the sincere will of each of us so that we can improve its purchasing power. I'm sure Congressman Zyskowicz will take a stand. This is where a great deal has been done to correct the tax error on pensioners in the Coalition Party. Well, I certainly cannot answer this mistake when we are in the government for the first time, but I can say that the taxation of pensioners has not been tightened. It's been done here many times. Then there is the question: I checked yesterday's STK website to see that they have interviewed Jari Lindström about self-employed people and that there can be a self-employed person and there can be an unemployed person, and this is exactly the situation that he promises that these breaks will end. It has been a problem that you have had to wonder whether it is worth going into business for a while if all these benefits are broken. This is a really great reform. He says that he receives the most feedback that there will be breaks in the payment of benefits, so that a very good reform will take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u228	Madam President! Minister for Labour Lindström's promises will remain empty as long as no model has been presented on the part of the government as to how self-employed people can then be effectively covered by social security. And from this point of view, I wonder why self-employed people had just been excluded from this basic income experiment and the government is suggesting that the long-term unemployed alone should be included in the basic income test. It makes absolutely no sense in this employment situation if you really want to improve employment figures and get real results from this basic income experiment. But this government's tax policy. It must be wondered, though, that when the government does not really use the tax element in such a way as to reduce inequality, and the government does not make any impact assessments on the impact of the various government measures on different groups of people, this is what the Economic Assessment Council, for example, criticised the government last autumn. Here, too, we are still waiting for measures to improve the position of the least-incomed. There is nothing to defend the argument that people are constantly being cut from those who rely on social benefits and that they are not being reduced in their taxes — that it is the element that the government does not do. Instead, the government merely cuts off those who depend on benefits and plunges them deeper into poverty. It is this kind of inhumane, unjust policy that cannot be justified in any way. If you had made different tax decisions, you could have improved the position of these people as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u229	Madam Speaker! The bio-solubility method is the only one available in such a thin ore content, not normal mining. With regard to the functioning of the bio-solubility method, that it works in supposedly only dry but not wet conditions, the theory is theory and practice is practice, because in 15 months half of the primary piles of nickel have dissolved and it is available for sale. The theory is different, but practice is different. Mr Andersson rightly remembers that it is necessary to mine efficiently in order to obtain primary heaps. The process of milling old piles that are petrified into action is slower. Unfortunately, the old Winterfell was misinformed and the promises there failed and the piles ended up petrified. It is a great accident, and it is a great trouble to take it again now by gnawing away the nickel. But this method seems to be working there, and I believe the reports from it. As far as Mr Haraka's objections are concerned, they are understandable, but they do not conflict at all with the common wording that we may have achieved. We did not go to the detailed demands that we heard there and that were made to us. I understand those objections; they are not at all in conflict with the opinion we have found together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u230	Madam President! However, what Mr Juhani said is the fact that this water balance problem has continued to swell, all the time. And when you look at history, this extraction has not been successful in that evaporation of water in the way it has been hoped. What assures us that it would be different now? This may be the main question. Terrafame Group Oy itself admits in the committee hearing that positive signal effects, positive measurement results, have been obtained in this bio-dilution, but this does not allow far-reaching assessments to be made. In particular, when mining grows and the mine moves towards full capacity, no assurance can be given in this respect either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u231	Mr President! This was indeed a fine and historic moment when the chairman of the section representing the Government Party expressed his thanks for the protest and also showed a noble attitude in the committee. This reflects the genuine desire to find common solutions to a difficult situation. And indeed our objection, which continues to be consistent with our approach, is that it must be possible to make a responsible decision on this issue with the best possible information. Unfortunately, we do not have the best possible information, as may be evident from this debate in the Chamber. We deserve it and the Kainuu deserve it so that we can take real responsibility for this solution now, tens of years and even hundreds of years from now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u232	Mr President! Unfortunately, there is a strain of years on Winterfell, and there is a debate about it that should not even have to be held in Parliament about the activities of an individual company. We are talking about whether it is theoretically possible to make their technology work in such a way that it can be a commercially standing mine that performs its statutory obligations. It comes to mind that we have not even gotten to whether this mine can ever be profitable even on market terms, because the world market price for nickel has never been as high for several years as it was in its short peak five years ago, and that is what they are still looking for as a permanent world price for nickel or even higher than it was then. At no point have the water balances been restored so that the amount of water in the area does not increase, but the amount of water is increasing all the time, although now they say that the process is working a little better. This is a bit similar to the fact that the Turku shipyard said about the Turun Shipyard case that "we know how to make ships,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u233	Madam President! With regard to this bio-dissolving method, however, it must be said that it is not going to go quite optimally in these reverberated conditions. When it produces water balance problems and amounts of waste water that seem to be very difficult to control, my conclusion is that the whole cannot be praised for its functionality, and the result is not that this method, which was originally tried as a pilot in Talvivaara, Terrafame, could be highly effective, let alone recommend such conditions anywhere else.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u234	Madam President! As far as this idea of this independent study is concerned, I understand the noble purpose, but the fact is that the problem is not that there is no different information that can be inserted into books and covers. And if you talk about this kind of independent explanation, then it will easily be a new dispute, that what things have been taken into account, what things have not been taken into account, and certainly a lot of parties will also question many different things in this kind of settlement. This reminds me that who is such a person who is able to do this and who is completely objective and not in any direction tilted. That it's easy to go back to this point of origin.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u235	Yes, I think we have a shared concern here as to whether the mine could be profitable and what the level of environmental load is. But yes, as I said earlier, perhaps foreign actors and experts could be the independent body in this regard. And with this amount of information, when each of us seems to be somehow involved or a beneficiary of this mine, it is really, really difficult for us to make a responsible decision about this with the information that this decision deserves. But in the spirit of this very same cooperation: I want Parliament's minutes to be properly informed that the nickel price surge was about 11 years ago, and it was quite fierce, and perhaps our national accident at the same time came the idea that the Winterfell Company would take advantage of this very historical exception,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u236	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I am not as good an expert on the functioning of the bio-dilution method and on the price development of nickel as I am apparently a significant proportion of the Members of Parliament who are taking part in the debate, but I came here to comment on a few other aspects that have emerged from this debate. First of all, Mr Viitanen was very much in need of more purchasing power for people in general and for people with low and middle incomes in particular. When these people have purchasing power, they buy and trade, and they are better able to take care of their families and everything goes better, and hopefully with the strengthening of economic purchasing power, people will be better off overall. But, Mr Viitanen, the purchasing power is not the kind that rains on these people from that heaven. So if you want to strengthen the purchasing power of all people, and especially of people with low and middle incomes, which one of us would not want to, then what are you financing all this over the long term? That was at least unclear to me in your speech, or even in your few speeches, and I think that your basic answer, that is to say the taxation of the rich, is not enough. In other words, we need to be able to improve our competitiveness, increase our exports, make our business work better, provide people with jobs, and thereby strengthen people's purchasing power. Your thinking would result in us becoming increasingly indebted to what we owe — and this debt will not go away, then our children and their children will pay. Well, another of your strong views was when you taught the Finns and others that these decisions are all value choices. Of course this can be said. In other words, during the last term of government, when you were a minister, you made important choices of value with our coalition ministers and parliamentarians. You decided to operate on the child supplement. Why? Why did you, Mr. Viitanen, want to operate on a child supplement? Why did you want to make such a choice of values? Why did you want to cut out education, primary schools, high schools, universities, polytechnics? Why? What do you have against families with children? So this is what I am trying to say to you, of course, that not only is it possible to make nice choices of values, so to speak, but it is also necessary to make difficult political decisions in difficult economic times. You made difficult political decisions during the last parliamentary term when you were in charge of the government. Now, in the opposition, you can stand up to all the bad things and support all the good things. That's good. When power changes, as democracy should, then these different aspects become known to you personally. As far as the taxation of pensioners is concerned, you are, in fact, criticising the fact that the tax on employees was reduced by EUR 450 million from the beginning of this year, and this reduction was directed precisely at low- and middle-income employees. The taxation of pensioners was not tightened, but the taxation of employees was reduced. Taxation was carried out on this model because it wanted to support work and make work more profitable and politically, because the centre of the government party had set this objective in its electoral programme and this was agreed in the Government Programme. The purpose of the election programme for the Coalition Party was that the tax reduction should have been made on the income tax scale, which would have affected both employees and pensioners. This tax gap, which has thus arisen, will certainly come back when different tax solutions are made. However, the tax solution promised by the government as a welcome to the so-called competitiveness pact will apply to employees because it compensates for the rise in the contributions of employees, not pensioners, as part of the competitiveness pact. To the Greens, such as Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto and Mr Aalto, I would say that you are very good at resisting all savings and supporting all possible additional expenditure. I have asked here several times that when you claim that you still have an alternative to these government savings, and you have said that only a small part will be corrected by taking a little more debt next year — apparently this year and next year at least — than the government has proposed, what are the remaining balancing measures that you Greens support? I've asked you to list the ten largest single savings targets you're all in favour of. And I have given in so far as it is agreed that nine will suffice, because this taxing or reducing of the kilometric allowance has until now been your permanent medicine to finance all your additional expenditure. In other words, when I have asked many Greens without getting answers other than references to publications on the website, I would like to ask Emma Kar, to whom I have never asked this question before: could you, Mrs Emma Kari, tell me what are the nine biggest savings targets, of which the Greens are prepared to make savings to counterbalance the fact that you oppose and reject all the savings proposed by the government, but for all good purposes you are constantly proposing more money? Or are you hiding in a barrel of gold bars or foreign currency or domestic currency or otherwise a large pile of money with which to finance everything? And finally, Madam President, Mr Haraka has a competitiveness pact. In the Competitiveness Pact, employees are sacrificing themselves for the benefit of the unemployed, because the interests of employees are being undermined, but it is generally believed that, in improving the cost competitiveness of Finnish companies, the competitiveness pact will increase jobs and job opportunities for the unemployed. As far as the details are concerned, Mr Harakka, I too think that in an unfair way in this agreement on competitiveness agreed by the organisations, public sector workers, and especially the women-dominated sectors of the public sector, are being paid extraly because of this cut in the fixed-term holiday money. If the government or the coalition had itself decided on this competitiveness pact, it would not have been done in such a way as to unfairly burden the women-dominated sectors of the public sector, such as nurses or teachers, but this was the solution in which employees' organisations and employers' organisations worked together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u237	Those who have asked for answers have also asked for these actual speeches, that is to say, this list, and now we are going to break it off.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u238	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz certainly does not remember, for example, from the last government, when the Social Democrats specifically wanted to compensate for these child replacement cuts, which in themselves were a bad thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u243	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz may have missed the fact that, according to Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the second amending budget for 2016 is being discussed today, of course the state budget will be discussed in the autumn. Tomorrow, of course, we can discuss a longer time frame by 2020. I also understand that you have some kind of fetish for these surgeries. But I also understand that it must be based on your thinking about state finances through your own purse — your own purse. If you reduce your own expenses, it will not reduce your income base. But do you understand, Mr Zyskowicz, that when the government reduces expenditure, it also reduces its revenue? Do you understand this? If the macro-economic economy starts to be made with micro-economic loans, it is nothing more than quacking, mere quacking, because the fact is that when the state substantially reduces its expenditure, it cuts so much, tax revenue decreases, unemployment increases and the cost of unemployment increases, social security expenditure increases. There's gonna be a negative twist. I do not know if you have noticed that the economy is based on three sectors. There is a private sector, a foreign sector and a public sector. As the Bank of Finland also pointed out, only the public sector currently maintains that small momentum of growth. Exports don't hold, private sector doesn't carry. The public sector needs to act at the moment. If you trust in your structural reforms, we should now keep it on the engine of the economy in order to build a bridge at a time when these structural reforms will bite. As infrastructure construction, among other things, is carried out with public funds, it also accumulates in the private sector. It is a good thing to take over these sectors of the economy and their interrelationships. You have many representatives in the Committee on Finance, many experts have been there to make a statement. It is good to look at them, including VATT's assessment of how much aid is being paid in vain.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u244	Mr President! Mr Viitanen, first of all, you told him how you fought furiously to compensate for the child replacement surgery that you first decided to perform. My question was why you decided to do it. Why did you make such a choice of values, or was it perhaps a question of making bad savings? I didn't say the tax solution was the city center's fault. It wasn't anybody's fault. All I said was that in the elections, different parties will present their own models for tax relief and then the government, as a compromise or together, will agree on which model to go forward with. Representative Aalto, I did not get an answer this time either, but we have three years so that I thought I would continue to ask this question,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u247	Mr President! As Mrs Aalto has rightly pointed out, the financing of demand-enhancing recovery policy is based on the idea that it pays itself back through these multiplier effects. As I said in my previous speech, the most effective way of ensuring that these multiplier effects are as high as possible is to spend this money to increase the amount of public investment. Of course, it is also possible to revitalize tax reductions, but then it is worth targeting those tax reductions on low incomes, so that the impact of purchasing power, that is to say, these multiplier effects, is as great as possible. This is also the basis for the fiscal policies of the Left Alliance. But just as much it would then be possible to ask Mr Zyskowicz how the government will then finance the tax reductions that the government is doing, because in these plans of yours these tax reductions will only be made in order to compensate for the cuts in purchasing power that this competitiveness pact now means. But from the point of view of a demand-enhancing or even stimulating policy, such a tax solution makes little sense, that is to say, a huge amount of money is being spent just to compensate for the cuts that have been made. And when Mr Zyskowicz asked why employees' organisations agreed to such an unfair solution from the point of view of public sector workers, they have, of course, compared the impact of the competitiveness pact with the impact that forced laws would have had on public sector workers. While these were still being discussed, it was found that the most hard-pressed laws would have hit the low-paid workers in the public sector, so there was no choice of the voting rights in the legislative package.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u248	Madam President! It is somewhat symbolic that only one of the members of the Assembly is present in this debate, and he does not want to discuss this amending budget at hand, but he wants to speak after another to show interest only in past parliamentary periods. However, I would like to say to Mr Zyskowicz personally that during the last period, when the Greens were in the government, we were pursuing a policy that narrows the income gap. When we were in the government, tax reductions were directed at low incomes, and the lowest social benefits were raised and income differentials narrowed. During this parliamentary term, we have advocated a fairer tax policy than a sitting government, criticising the wrong cuts in the government, cuts towards low incomes and education. And in our alternative budget, we have shown how cuts in education could be replaced by reductions in tax subsidies that are harmful to the environment. And our 2017 alternative budget will continue to present more strongly the objectives of our Greens, our top projects: to continue to have a fairer tax policy and to replace educational cuts with reducing environmentally harmful subsidies and a more active fight against the grey economy than the government does. And when Mrs Zyskowicz asked how we Greens would finance our demands, for example, the basic deduction of municipal tax for low incomes would be financed by us in such a way as to tighten the tax burden on taxed dividends with the same amount. So this measure of ours would be cost-neutral. That is a fair tax policy and it is only a matter of will, Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u249	Madam President! Again, in disbelief, I am listening to what Mr Zyskowicz has to say. I do not even remember how many times this is when we have responded to his arguments that we have no choice. We have been through these things so many times in the context of the alternative budget, every time we have talked about amending budgets, and well, even now, and in the context of the JTS, these have also come up. In fact, Ben Zyskowicz has criticised the Greens' policy on environmentally harmful subsidies. Today I noticed the State Financial Research Institute (VATT) research on energy tax returns. When Mr Zyskowicz has claimed that we are as if unrealistic in our objective, VATT writes this: "The State loses EUR 200 million in tax revenue every year without receiving any value for money, because nothing shows that the aid has improved the competitiveness of these companies. In addition, the aid is incompatible with Finland's climate objectives." For example, this kind of research is such a thing that we should all go through, and before claiming that the Greens would not have a choice, then we should also be familiar with such knowledge-based decision-making. This is a good answer for you, among other things — EUR 200 million, a large sum, which I think we can start with.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u250	Madam President! I would like to say to Mr Andersson that the Left Alliance is being honest in this policy of state finances. In his election programme, it said quite frankly that you believe that more debt will be taken, and at some point the debts will be made available. My criticism is precisely that it was not the Greens, for example, who did not do this. They, in their election programme, did not go away from taking on more debt, unlike the Left Alliance, which has acted honestly and fairly in this respect. Representative Alanko-Kahiluoto, these fair tax policies and environmentally harmful tax subsidies are no tangible savings. What are these environmentally harmful tax subsidies that you want to get rid of — agricultural subsidies? Just now, Aalto demanded more money for agricultural subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u253	All right, who here wanted the answers now? I think there were more than one. Where do we start? — Representative Aalto.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u254	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz, for your information: Menial adjustment doesn't mean the same thing as mere cuts. You've got a little misconception here. There are many ways to make spending adjustments. Surgery is one part of those spending adjustments. And replacing educational cuts with other cuts does not mean replacing one with all government cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u257	Mr President! I admire Mrs Zyskowicz, who, like a special committee, arrives here when the unfairness of the taxation of pensioners in relation to employees is mentioned. Where does the purchasing power of employees and people with low and middle income increase? Mr Zyskowicz asked a question to which he himself replied in his eight-minute speech. I, like the chairman of the tax section, Mika Lintilä, expressed the hope that the government would also compensate the very employees who lose most in the competitiveness pact, i.e. those with low and medium incomes. But you yourself said here that this tax reduction applies specifically to employees, so the news of today's debate is that the tax gap is increasing further.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u260	Yes, in fact I could, Mr President, continue to marvel at the fact that it is only so that the election vow is first betrayed in terms of inequality in the taxation of pensioners, and then, after being asked of ourselves, well, now that we have to correct our own mistakes, it is announced that no, no, we will continue to make the same mistake and we will make an additional mistake. And this is not how it can be. Just as the President-in-Office of the Prime Minister's Section for Taxation has said that wage and salary earners' tax reductions should be targeted at low and middle incomes, we agree exactly with that. That's wise. By the way, we have also made our own choice as an alternative budget, in which people with low and medium income, both employees and pensioners, would pay less tax than the government proposes. In other words, lighter taxation in that direction, then the financial sector, capitalisation agreements, tax haven prevention measures — all of this. They would then raise more taxes without increasing the tax rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u261	Madam President! I regret that I may have had too much and too much noise, but our debate is just described by this recent situation that Mr Zyskowicz was barking at our economic policy option and then, when it came to a very specific answer, that is, EUR 200 million — the VATTI study directly ahead — he completely idolized it. This is an incomprehensible situation. And then he did not respond in any way to my speech, but began to refer vaguely to other speeches and to confuse this debate. Answer me, Mr Zyskowicz, what this has just said, I want to know.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u265	Mr President! I took the floor when Mr Viitanen finally wanted to say that the Finns of Peru must also take responsibility. In my own speech, I did not say that we are not taking responsibility, and I am happy to announce, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Finns, that there was a change in the piece of shit law, that Yle-Tax was reduced from those on low incomes, that the guarantee pension has been increased and that support for informal care has been improved and that municipalities are not given additional tasks without additional funding. We are very happy to bear the responsibility for these. Then you said take responsibility for the tax solution. Of course we are responsible for supporting a reduction in the tax on labour income. I never said we'd dodge here. Then you have very much wanted to tell us that you would take less debt in your alternative budget, I think it would be 335 million. You have presented this alternative budget in the autumn, and a few months ago I saw a programme in which Mr Sanna Marin presented your immigration policy guidelines. There were at least twenty different measures, and the reporter asked Mr Marin several times what it cost, and Mr Marin said that I do not know, we have not counted. The reporter asked if you have not budgeted for this, that there are awfully good integration measures. And now I would like to ask: is your budget therefore smaller, because you do not have, for example, these billion-dollar costs of immigration? I'd like to know if your calculations have been updated and where to find them. When you talk about taking responsibility, do not make it clear here all the time that you have not done it and this and that and now the present government is doing it. The SDP has been in the government for years and, as Mr Zyskowicz pointed out, there have been child replacement surgery and much more, so that we talk realistically and do not put a halo on the head.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u266	Mr President! Indeed, we have not yet received from the government the line of targeting these tax cuts, hundreds of millions. That has been asked by the previous Finance Minister, Mr Stubb, and I am sure it will be the first question for the Minister of Finance, Mr Orpo. But if I understood Mr Zyskowicz's speech correctly, he himself agreed with us and the chairman of the Tax Section, Mrs Lintila, that it would be fair for them to be targeted at those who suffered most, i.e. the low and middle incomes, in Finnish. Correct me if I'm wrong. Now that this tax gap is still growing for pensioners and employees, you promised vaguely in your 8-minute speech that this difference would be offset in some way. Tell us now what concrete steps you intend to take to offset this injustice and, accordingly, where will the money be taken from when the state apparently loses tax revenue? You have been laughing at the fact that some party has a chest or a gold pig with some extra money — where then is your gold pig, which you vaguely finance the tax relief you promised to pensioners? What is the level of talk, how much, and what will be the taxation of the average pensioner in relation to the same earner? In the SDP model, the average-income pensioner would have benefited EUR 250 per year. Will you be able to do the same, or will this once again remain in the thicker book of your unfulfilled promises?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u267	Madam President! I do not quite understand now — I really do not understand — that in this competitiveness pact, if the tax-like contributions of the wage-earners are increased and the government's tax income compensates for this increase in taxation on employees, i.e. not on pensioners, and zeros it, as this coverage seems to be the case, how it widens the tax differential between employees and pensioners. I am sure that Mr Viitanen, who has the next floor, will explain this to me and others. In other words, this compensation, which we are talking about as the result of a competitiveness pact, is aimed at those to whom the competitiveness pact means a tightening of taxation, i.e. employees and, in principle, all employees whose taxation also increases as part of the competitiveness pact.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u268	Mr President! As Mr Harakka said earlier, we have not yet been presented with what the government intends to do. But, of course, we can welcome Mr Zyskowicz's recent promise, which can be interpreted as also meaning that you agree on the need to focus on low and middle incomes. Right? That would be a good thing. And at the same time, we can look forward to the fact that perhaps there will also be compensation for pensioners, but these speeches, which have so far come from the government parties, give no proof that this is happening. We certainly do not accept the current situation, we do not accept the fact that this tax has been unequaled, and we will vote on this next Thursday. We will follow closely what will happen in the future, and if, this time, the coalition decided to be consistent, including with itself, then it would be precisely so that this tax gap would be corrected immediately. So far there has been a press release after the press release that it went wrong but correction is required, and never, when the place comes, it did not come: there was a place in the spending limits debate, now there is a place. I mean, for God's sake, do something. But in itself I would like to say positively that we are waiting with interest for what will happen. And, of course, this emphasis on the low and middle incomes, which Mr Zyskowicz may mean, is a positive thing for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u269	Madam President! In the competitiveness agreement, wage and salary earners' tax-related contributions are tightening. If the government did not do any tax receipts as a result of the conclusion of the competitiveness agreement, it would then, in the view of Mr Viitanen, be achieved through this tightening of taxes on employees, a fair situation that would narrow the tax gap between employees and pensioners, or — now I do not have any calculations — could even become more advantageous for pensioners. However, the Government does not want the competitiveness pact to increase the tax burden on employees, and that is why the government has promised tax receipts, which, according to the calculations now presented, would mean that this tax receipts, EUR 415 million, would compensate for the tax evasion that results from the competitiveness agreement. Consequently, this tax income for employees does not imply any additional difference between the taxation of employees and pensioners. As for whom this tax income should be allocated, that is what the government will decide in more detail only when deciding next year's taxation in the autumn, but I have not said that it should only be targeted at low and medium incomes, but I have said that, in my opinion, it will also be targeted at those affected by this competition agreement, namely all employees. And as regards the fact that Mr Viitanen understood that I had made a direct promise here that there would be some tax reductions for pensioners, I did not promise in my opinion, but I said that this issue will certainly be examined in connection with the tax solutions of this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u270	Mr President! I had to run from that office to this hall when I heard Mr Mere's speech and he clearly understood something wrong about this integration programme of the SDP. The SDP has published a comprehensive and in-depth integration programme which has analysed extensively the situation in which we are currently in, and has sought common solutions and ways to deal with this situation, where more refugees have arrived in Finland, more asylum seekers than in the past, together. We published this spring an integration programme in which we are looking for these common solutions, and when a representative However, the sea apparently in its own speech referred to the alternative budget of the SDP, which is from last autumn, so it is true that the alternative budget did not focus on this integration programme, which was only published this spring, but it is quite clear that integration requires money, but it is worth doing so because it pays itself back many times more and none of us will want to see the problems accumulated in society that inevitably arise if integration is not properly managed and these people are actually taken care of and want to be integrated into this society. So this is what this was all about. I do not know exactly what Mr Meri was referring to, but it is quite clear that integration costs money, but it is worth doing, because then we will get this expense back many times later.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u271	Mr President! Since Mr Marin was not here, I will tell you that I was referring to the fact that Mr Viitanen was always telling you how your alternative budget is taking EUR 335 million less debt than the government, and because your immigration policy and this integration programme have come later and there are measures, as the journalist in that programme asked you whether these measures were not going to cost anything, I only asked Mrs Viitanen if these expenses had now been included. After all, integration does not take place free of charge, and the next day it does not come in any way. I said that when you talk about this 335 million, please tell me if you have these figures updated. In my opinion, I did not misunderstand anything and I did not take a position on whether integration is in favour, but on the cost of integration measures. This year, for example, we have the cost of immigration of EUR 1 billion. I'm just wondering if your calculations are all set now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u272	Mr President! Certainly, if you had followed that programme closely, then I also told you that the alternative budgets of the opposition are, of course, those options that are in relation to the government's draft budget, the government's policy. The alternative budget is not the state budget proposal, so it only sets out those options. However, even in the alternative budget, there were already the costs that the government will show this year as well as the costs of immigration. We're all in this situation together. Certainly none of us have wished for the many crises the world faces and the subsequent movements of refugees and the arrival of refugees. But this is where we are, and that is why we have to deal with this situation. For its part, the government has budgeted for this, and of course this money already exists on the basis of the opposition's alternative budgets. I'm sure we would have found out if you'd listened well to that show.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u273	Mr President! In fact, it turned out above that, of course, our alternative budgets always mirror the government's proposal. For example, we already have small additional investments for integration this year. But, above all, in this policy on asylum, we have very much wanted to follow the government's estimates and contributions and others, and we consider it important that they are sufficient. But we do not always have better information about all situations than the government does. So we have been mirroring the current developments, which, of course, will also change with the government, because the situation is radically different. But we do have an alternative budget, and we will have another one in the autumn in relation to the government's proposal. In that sense, I am very pleased and happy because we have been able to verify all of this, as we have put it, that we have no air, but we explicitly assume that with a more employable line, with a fairer tax line, with precise measures, for example, to promote exports,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u274	Mr President! In fact, there should be no comparison between apples and pears or, in view of the rhetoric of the party chairman, between apples and melons. Our alternative budget is always in relation to the state budget, which did not have these costs of immigration, which was in fact criticised by the state budget, but came later on in the additional budget and in the supplementary budgets. So we have to compare the two documents, the budget and the alternative budget. The fact is that, by comparing the two, it is concluded that the SDP, contrary to what Mr Zyskowicz said, has reduced government debt by EUR 330 million and, at the same time, sought to ensure employment and growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u275	Mr President! I listened very carefully to that program and made notes on it. And I particularly drew attention to the fact that the journalist on several occasions was even a little confused that you did not have those expenses. But there is no point in us continuing with this, and that programme can certainly be found there. So the sum summarum says that the costs of your programme have not been calculated. They are obviously coming this autumn because, if I understood correctly, you have made the budget according to last year's situation. That is why I hope that in the future, when you tell and compare your budgets, you will say that this is the situation last autumn. Take into account that the government lives every day in modern and real time, situations change. In other words, you still do not have expenditure on your programme. So this was the answer I received.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u276	Madam President! I know that this debate is going around and I am sure that we want to move forward on the agenda. I would have liked to comment on Mr Zyskowicz's reply. Rarely does he remain silent in this way — an interesting situation. So the situation was that I raised the issue of the EUR 200 million raised by Mr VATT, as it were, and, in a way, the question of the expenditure which does not help competitiveness in any way and which harms the environment. And Congressman Zyskowicz has confirmed that this is probably a tax increase. I'm surprised at this. I thought the economy was our common concern and when good proposals came out, we should catch them. But this debate represents the panic of the coalition when the Greens are doing so well and the civilised bourgeoisies are leaking, you will certainly spill to us. Reasonable economic policies will therefore be suspended without any reasonable answer, without any reasonable justification. This is what you said, "this is probably a tax increase," is a phrase like this that you have memorized. This is just that panic and really interesting to watch.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u277	Mr President! Let us now repeat to Mrs Merelle: the alternative budget for the SDP, which we drew up last autumn, is an alternative budget in relation to this year's draft budget, which was then presented by the government and which is now the budget this year. So the alternative budget is linked to that process, to this year's budget. In addition, the SDP has made not only this alternative budget but also many other programmes. One of these programmes is an integration programme that is wide-ranging, and in our view, now that an exceptionally large number of asylum seekers, immigrants, have arrived in Finland, we are in favour of this integration being done well. Of course, it also generates costs, as the government recognises, but if integration is not handled well, the costs will be even more. But here I am trying to make it clear to you that the alternative budget for the next budget year is quite different from the political programme, for example, in this case the integration programme, which, of course, has a longer perspective. And yes, there will be costs, but then it is worth using them so that they will be lower in the long term, because if something costs that integration is not well managed, these people will not be cared for, there will be no training places, no jobs, no housing, and otherwise they will not be integrated into society — because it will cost them, if anything, Mr Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u278	Madam President! Mr Yanar, you are right, I am concerned that the support of the Greens in the polls will rise. And, in particular, I am concerned that this green bluff, that you are supposed to have alternatives to these disgusting and unpleasant government savings, which you vehemently reject and object to, seems to go through so uncritically in the Finnish social debate. The best example of your bluff or, if you would just say so, of your two-faced political game is that last autumn you were the only party in this Chamber – the only one – who suggested that the compensation for private doctors for Kela should be abolished. Then it happened that the working group set up by the STM put forward this proposal of yours. What was the result? As a result, under the leadership of Emma Kar, you started a campaign in social media against this disgusting government surgery against women. And, of course, this campaign by Emma Kari was followed up by the party chairman Ville Niinistö — the chairman of the same party, who, as the only party in the autumn, had proposed the abolition of these Kela allowances. Such a bluff goes through the Finnish social debate today. That's what I'm worried about, yes. As far as the savings are concerned, you have said that OK, for all the 4,000 million you will not replace with savings, but some you will replace with tax increases. I have asked you, however, when you apparently make up for a significant part of it with savings, to tell us what savings are. I haven't heard from him. Now you're referring to some VATT savings of 200 million. It may be an excellent proposal, I cannot comment on it, I am not familiar with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u279	Madam President! Almost as funds I asked for this speech when I was quite certain that Mr Zyskowicz would say something to the SDP in this last speech. They did not show up, but, Mr President, I still think it was good to take this floor, because I feel that even after a heated debate, there is a need to draw conclusions that could lead to something. And I, for my part at least, would like to stress very strongly that, when it seems to me here that some of the SDP's alternative budget is not yet familiar, please take it for evening reading after this session or one of the summer days.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u282	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u283	Madam President! We had a very long, multi-hour debate on this proposal last week, and on the basis of that debate it is quite clear that the views of opposition parties and government parties on human rights and human equality and people's right to their own family differ in a truly fundamental way. This proposal is completely inhumane, it is cruel and has been opposed by all the religions of Finland, it has been opposed by all human rights organisations, all child rights organisations, Amnesty, Finnish Refugee Aid, Unicef, Plan, Church Foreign Aid, Child Welfare Confederation, Save the Children, Mannerheim League for Child Welfare, Family Federation, Marttaliitto, etcetera et al. All these experts on child protection and human rights agree that this government proposal weakens the position of the very children who are already in the most vulnerable position. And although this criticism has been repeatedly raised and these problems have been repeatedly raised, the government has still refused to back down on any detail in this inhuman bill. That is why, Mr President, I have no choice at this point but to propose that the government's proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u284	Mr President! I would like to support Mrs Kari's proposal. This is, as he said, an inhumane law which in practice puts an end to family reunification of minor asylum seekers. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has tabled three very heavy and justifiable amendments which would have even slightly offset the most brutal effects of this legislation, but even common sense should not be allowed to take over this area, not to mention humanity. There has been a great deal of discussion about income limits, even a misconception. Not all Finnish families with two children will reach the net income of EUR 2600 even after the support. Income limits are not defined in the law but are indicative practices of the authorities. Even when the new law does not even define the criteria for determining income limits, the possibility of arbitrary action is great — and minors should not be subject to any income limits unless the purpose is to completely prevent their children from having their families in Finland, as it seems to be. The violation of families — that is, even families that existed before the refugee journey — will lead to a certain bitterness, marginalisation, possibly radicalisation of the arrival. When we recently visited Kajaani, the director of the reception centre told us that the most common reason for the interruption of integration training is the immigrant’s concern and stress about his family. The Government wants to push immigrants outside Finnish society. I would like to say that it is also up to the government to bear responsibility for the consequences, but that is not something that the government can do. We will experience the worst consequences only years after this government has been deposed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u285	Madam President! The Government’s proposal to tighten the conditions for family reunification makes family reunification virtually impossible. The proposal makes the reunification of beneficiaries of international protection conditional on an adequate income. For a family with two children, this means a net monthly income of EUR 2600. The proposed three-month derogation from the condition of living for the beneficiary of refugee status is unrealistic and inadequate. Applicants for family reunification may have to travel long distances on dangerous routes to the nearest Finnish embassy to submit an application. Congestion at the embassy may also prevent processing within the time limit. The Administrative Committee therefore stressed the possibility of derogating from the income limits for an exceptionally heavy reason or in the interests of the child. The examples of the application of a derogation from the Government proposal — serious illness or disability — show that this is a very exceptional procedure. The best interests of the child will not be realised in this performance. The Child Affairs Ombudsman appealed to all of us: "Finland — be larger than your size, look to the future, growth, wonder, child." The Government claims that changes are necessary to prevent Finland from being seen as an exceptionally attractive country for asylum seekers. However, the reunification of refugees into Finland has already been made very difficult. An application for family reunification can only be made from abroad, which is very difficult in practice because of the cutting of the network of representations, visa practices, heavy bureaucracy and distance. Difficulty in family reunification also hits the cheeks with integration goals. Living apart from a family increases human suffering and greatly impedes the success of integration. Faraway family members suffer unduly from the situation. By blackmailing family reunification, the most vulnerable, women and children, are driven into dangerous routes for asylum seekers. There are a lot of young men in our reception centers whose loved ones and loved ones are somewhere far away. My friend will volunteer to help these refugees at the reception centre and teach them Finnish. The atmosphere at the reception center has become uncertain, and the government's plans are worrying. When they come here, they quickly want to get to work and get to a new start. They carry pictures of their wives and children in their pockets and ask me when I can get my family here. A young refugee reported that his sister’s husband was killed in battle and soon thereafter her sister died in the bombing. Two little children were orphaned in Syria. Can't an uncle get kids to come to his house for safety? These people have come to Finland for asylum. Refugees are not aliens from space. They are people who have lost a lot. They are in danger of life, and they are in distress for their loved ones. Now a heart is needed for the situation of these people and the need for children. It is also a wise solution, because the government's proposal would lead to the failure of integration and social problems. At the borders of Europe, people are kept behind barbed wire fences in the murky camps. The doors to Europe are closed. The idea of Europe is that together we are stronger and we are for peace. Europe must face together a major humanitarian refugee crisis, with solidarity from country to country. People have the right to escape war and persecution, the right to asylum. The right to a family is a fundamental human right. Mr President! I support Mr Kari's rejection of the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u286	Mr President! I will go back to the same debate that took place in this Chamber a week ago, and when you think about this immigration policy, at least I think of three words that it should follow. The first is, of course, that we are responsible for our own policy. The second is that we accept the fact that society is capable of carrying. But the third and most important word is humanity. And then, when this proposal is viewed specifically from the point of view of humanity, it must be admitted that there are fundamental defects here. If you think about the status of children in this government proposal and if this happens, many asylum seekers who come to Finland alone, who have received a residence permit here, will never have their family in Finland. And now this fact should also be acknowledged by the government parties. If that is true, it is the rights of children and certainly, in part, it is the fact that, in certain respects, for example, radicalisation, we offer more seeds when we do not manage integration as it should be. The second relates to these income limits. If 80 per cent of the Finns in Finland could not bring their families to Finland at these income limits, it does tell us something about the requirements we impose on immigrants. And now that this proposal is going through, I would hope that the government will honestly say that this is the government's wish.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u287	Madam President! I would like to thank the previous speaker for his very touching and good speech. The Government is tightening the conditions for family reunification in a situation where thousands of people arriving in Finland live apart from their loved ones. We have a bill before us, which narrows the chances of family reunification to almost nothing. The income limits required for family reunification would be extended as a requirement for all beneficiaries of international protection from Finland. An adult who wants a spouse and two children to come to Finland should earn EUR 2,600 per month net. This is a great sum of money for an average Finn who has been trained here and who has had his whole life to build a network, relationships, relationships in Finland, let alone a person who has come here from difficult circumstances, perhaps from traumatic circumstances, and whose mental, physical and economic resources are scarce. Government Minister Orpo has repeatedly justified the bill by the fact that, in the absence of sufficiently uniform EU legislation, Finland is also moving towards a minimum level in the EU. However, the EU directive says quite frankly that it is not intended to reduce the level of protection of countries to a minimum. On the contrary, it is intended to safeguard the position of the most vulnerable people. And the government cannot go behind the EU, the EU does not dictate the policy of the Finnish Government. It should also be noted that all investments in integration, which has been discussed this evening, are wasted if the spouse and children of a person who comes to Finland are in the middle of a war or are in danger of going back there. As a result of previous blackmails, family reunification is already very difficult in Finland. The Greens have consistently opposed the blackmail of family reunification, both in government and in opposition. We do not accept the starting point for anti-immigrant policy, which constantly calls into question the motives of people in need and refers down to humanity. We are also concerned that Finland does not respect the rights of children. According to the Ombudsman for Children, Finland does not take sufficient account of the best interests of the child in family reunification decisions. An agreement on the rights of the child would require that the child should not be separated from his or her parents except in exceptional, justified cases. Now, as a result of the strict interpretation of the Finnish Immigration Service, few children are considered to be entitled to their own parents, and the blackmail promoted by the government would further weaken the child's position. The Finnish Government is making it almost impossible for children to bring their families to their homes and safety, when the main rule should be that the family already in Finland will not be dissolved and the child who has already been protected from Finland should be able to bring the family to him. This would be not only human, but also in support of integration, as has been said many times. Madam President! However, the government is consciously undermining the best interests of the child, making use of so - called attraction factors. The government's own proposal states that extending the income criterion to children makes family reunification in these cases virtually impossible. This cannot be seen as a morally justified human policy. Madam President! The right to a family must not be just the right of the wealthy. The right to a family is human rights, as the previous speaker well said. On these grounds, I support Mrs Kari's motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u288	Mr President! I am deeply concerned about the social development that is taking place in Finland on issues related to the rights of immigrants and refugees. We have in the government a party whose representatives here in the debate last week were openly glad, even dreaming, that restricting human rights and restricting the rights of refugees is a political goal to be pursued. Then we have two other parties in the government who are involved in implementing this policy but do not want to talk about it very much or show responsibility for it. Mr Zyskowicz is there, but his arguments are equally such that it cannot be said that the defence of human dignity and the defence of children's rights are at the heart of that thinking. I am concerned that although the whole of Finnish civil society — refugee organisations, non-governmental organisations, welfare organisations and other actors — has appealed to the government to withdraw this bill, including religious groups all together have appealed to the government to withdraw this proposal, this has not been done. I understand that the Finnish People's Party is seeking such a society in which people's rights are restricted, but I wonder why the Minister of the Interior, Mr Petteri Orpo, wants to remain in history as a minister, during whose term of office Finland prepared a bill, which is even less pronounced than the Halla-aho Nuiva manifesto of the Finns. Here the restrictions on family reunification are extended to children who have been granted asylum and underage in Finland in a way that in practice makes family reunification impossible, as these experts have assessed here. What is the government of a country that sends a message to people that those who have already been protected from Finland, who have been found to be in need, cannot have their family or children in Finland? It is a place of serious, serious self-examination that we have a government that is now taking such a proposal through Parliament, part of it actively defending and pursuing it and part of it with a little bit of shame. But if you're ashamed, you might want to pull the bill. That is why I would appeal to the government parties, and in particular Minister Orpo, to consider that the government parties will be able to reject this bill tomorrow and that the bill will be rejected. Therefore, I personally also support Mr Kari's rejection proposal. I would also like to say one specific thing that emerged after last week's debates. It was a study carried out by France and United Kingdom Unicef concerning children — 60 children had been examined — who are in camps in France and whose families are most already in the UK and how these children, who are alone, are treated in these camps. I recommend that each Member of Parliament take a look at the results of this report. Of course, it is not entirely comparable to the situation in Finland, but similar situations have also been reported in Turkey and other refugee camps in the Middle East, and these findings were very harsh. Lonely children — whose families therefore expect that they can bring their children to them through family reunification or other means, and that they are already in Western Europe, in countries that call themselves civilized countries — are victims of sexual exploitation, extortion, violence and any other form of manipulation in these camps and have parents waiting for them to come to them. Think of how these parents feel when they know that their children are waiting for them to reach them, and they are there in the camps. We certainly have parents in Finland too, and I myself have met with many who are concerned about the situation of their children and spouses in their own countries, but also in many cases about their families who have already fled their country of origin but are waiting there in neighbouring camps, such as Turkey, Jordan or Lebanon. If Finland wants to show responsibility for this situation and recognizes that we do not want children and women to increasingly enter dangerous routes across the Mediterranean, now more and more with this EU-Turkey agreement, which is also completely inhumane, it means that more and more dangerous routes are being made for Europe through Libya, then we should just enable legitimate routes to come to Europe for those who already have relatives, so that families can be together. We should strengthen development cooperation, peace-building and legal routes to come to Europe so that the anxiety that drives people, the distress and persecution that drives people to seek these difficult routes, even at the mercy of smugglers, towards Europe, can be eliminated. If the government now closes these legitimate routes, then it will only send the message that we do not want to help people, even those we have already received here, and it will send the message that we hope that others will not come here for help. I do not believe that this is the kind of country Finland has been. It is not the human image that we have of fellow humans, that we turn our backs when a person is in need of help. Our society is built on it, on its Rawlsian principle of justice, that society should be fair to all, that no matter what your position in society is or that you do not know your position in society, we would think that we should build a society so that it would be good for all of us to be there before we know our place in it. The very idea of creating opportunities for all to survive and support everyone should be a fundamental principle of the Nordic welfare state. Unfortunately, more and more countries in Europe have now started to undermine the rights of people who are most in need, i.e. those who are seeking refuge in Europe with their families, and that is disgraceful. I find it particularly shameful that the Finnish Government is heading in the very vanguard towards a weaker protection of human rights and weaker rights for children in a way that is by no means honorable to anyone in this country. I find it difficult to understand why the government has not chosen the path of seeking common solidarity in Europe and the EU, but, in the absence of such solutions, it has taken the path of reducing rights as quickly as possible. It is the wrong direction, and it does not create peace and security for Finns either, because our own location in this world has shown that it is also in the interests of Finns to take care of small people in this world: small people, small people and children.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u289	Madam President! Mr Niinistö has just spoken in such a touching way, and I was wondering what to do better here, but I am sure it will be enough to talk about things as they seem to be with us and how we think about these things. When I think about this situation that we are now in the process of dealing with this refugee crisis in Europe, that is what we have in the way that, after World War II, this is the worst crisis of all that has happened to refugees. I now find this proposed legislative reform a questionable response. When attempts are made to help with such a humanitarian crisis, on the other hand, it is done all the time that humanitarian aid is being sought at all. It also runs counter to our international principles, which we have agreed here over the years and how we have sought to deal with people's distress and help. If you look at this directive on family reunification in the EU, it states that more favourable conditions should be laid down for the reunification of families of refugees because of their vulnerable status. Yes, they are in a vulnerable position, they have run away from the cruel situation they have had in their country of origin. Now, this government proposal, for example on income limits, does not correspond to any of this directive on family reunification. This income limit is considerably higher than the income earned in the work of many of the semi-Finnish families. And then we must remember that when these decisions are considered and this government decision is taken, one of the most important things about integration is also that families are present, that families are brought together and that together we are able to start doing that work for our own well-being and improve that common position. When we accept those people here they become integrated and are part of our society. And while I am still thinking about this law, it seems that every effort is being made here to prevent this success of integration and to prevent the child from having, finding and living together his own family. Mr President! I support Mr Kari's proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u290	Madam President, all those present! Returning to the goals of the government’s proposal, the government has pointed out, as we have probably all read many times, that we want to control immigration, reduce the cost of immigration and promote protection, and that the family collector should be able to manage the family’s livelihood. There have been speeches here, as in the public domain many people ask why the conditions for living are now being tightened. Then, for many, we have come up with the impression that we have somehow changed these conditions of income. It is good to start by saying that they have remained old, that they have not been raised and that they are then linked to living conditions and there is reflection there. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stressed that the best interests of the child and the interests of the family should be taken into account. There are certain items of expenses, such as child benefit, which are taken into account in the formation of income, so that it is not just earned income. When we talk about these things and bring these things up, we talk about them very carefully, precisely because people do not get misconceptions. Representative Niinistö said that there is a party here – apparently the Finns of Finland – who dreams of restricting people’s rights, and this government proposal is worse than Halla-aho’s Nuiva manifesto. I don't know what you meant by this. The Finns have been discussing immigration for a long time, highlighting the problems it has become in terms of integration, the costs. I don't know if we dream of anything more. We bring things to the table and the conversation. It is always so easy in a certain way to be that good and open when there is a tight economic situation. It is much more unfortunate to stand here to defend these government proposals and also to bring the Finnish perspective. There are also people here who think that we have had to compromise on many things, cut off, tightened up, our economy is tight, why then should we be so open-minded in everything. We must also understand that not all citizens feel that way. However, I would remind you that more than 500,000 people have voted for the True Finns. They find it offensive that they are like - minded with us. I have not seen a single person here in this Chamber who has flagged in favour of restrictions on human rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u293	Mr President! I am glad Mr Meri gave his speech. I did not agree with that, but it was in a respectful way, and he could familiarise himself with the speeches made by Mrs Elon, Mr Eerola and Mr Mäkelä in the debate last Thursday, to which I myself pointed out that they were clearly very pleased with this development, which is what this bill is doing in the way I described in my speech. Secondly, it must be stressed that all the other questions which the representative The sea raised the question of how to ensure that, when large groups of people are forced to leave their countries of origin in different ways and to ensure that people can stay close to their homelands, are quite different from whether those who are already in Finland have the right and the opportunity to have their loved ones: do we take the right of people who are going to stay here and who we want to integrate and employ — in practice we make it almost impossible — to have their children and spouses here? It is particularly cruel, and it is also economically harmful.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u294	Mr President! It was a good thing that Mr Niinistö replied to Mr Mere. It would have been very good if you had been here last week, because I do not even know whether I dare to tell anyone who did not hear the speeches that were being made here and which were specifically mocking and glad that people's rights can be prevented. And it didn't matter if they were talking about children or vulnerable people. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has explicitly stated in its opinion that it is a very questionable starting point for legislation, that efforts are being made to make Finland less attractive to asylum seekers. And you may ask, after today's debate on security policy and the debate on economic policy, how can it be in Finland's interest to make Finland less attractive to anyone - a country where children's rights are ignored, children are not wanted to be protected, family reunification is not to be safeguarded, there is no desire to care about the plight of foreign people. I have been fighting with Mr Zyskowicz for years on these matters of asylum, where we have always been on different sides, but this is new when, at the time, both in the assembly and in the centre, there have been quite clear forces, but they have also defended a decent asylum policy. At the moment, it seems that there are no such people, at least they do not appear here in the government parties, which is, of course, very sad. I talked to Elisabeth Rehn, who talked about it with me, that before this would have been a clear question of conscience for anyone who will vote tomorrow whether or not children's rights will now be undermined.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u295	Mr President! The conditions for family reunification are already quite tense, and family reunification is difficult, and blackmailing these conditions even further is a heartless and cruel policy. I myself was in that debate last week when it was being held in this Chamber, and unfortunately that debate was not terribly human, from time to time not even terribly proper, but became a very sad picture of the situation in which a country that traditionally respects human rights and boasts them, Finland, has drifted under this regime. I am particularly sad and sorry that there were no delegates in this Chamber last week's debate, but there are not very many Members of this House, apart from Mr Zyskowicz, who are not from the centre, because I know that there are certainly people within these parties who see that these proposals are very problematic from the point of view of children, from the point of view of families, from the point of view of human rights and from the point of view of the most vulnerable people in the world. That is why I would like these representatives, who will then vote in the Chamber on these sad proposals, to listen to this debate, to participate in it and to explain why they are behind this government's proposal, which is cruel, which is inhumane, which is a truly sad picture of the situation in modern Finland, where we have drifted. I personally support Mr Kari's motion for rejection and I really hope that humanity will:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u296	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! When I spoke here earlier and disagreed with the Greens on economic policy, I was and I think they are bluffing when they say that they have alternatives to government savings. On this point, I do not think the Greens are bluffing. They are genuinely and sincerely in line with what they have been in the past and now. On the other hand, I believe that they are closing their eyes to certain uncomfortable facts relating to the acute refugee crisis in Europe and, on the other hand, I believe that in these concrete legislative proposals, such as this one, they are looking at the issue from the point of view of asylum seekers who are already in Finland but do not want to take into account the wider impact of the solutions to be taken into account in this context on the number of asylum seekers arriving in Finland. In this speech, and in part also in response to the questions and views raised, I would like to say a few basic points. Why is such a law that makes family reunification difficult now being enacted? In Europe in general and in the Nordic countries in all countries — or it is said precisely that in almost all countries — the conditions for family reunification are being tightened. The aim and purpose of this action is to influence the number of asylum seekers in the refugee crisis in Europe who apply to each country. If Finland did not act like other European countries and like the other Nordic countries, but, for example, our rules on family reunification were clearly more favourable than those of other Nordic countries and other European countries, then it is quite clear to me — and this is not a negative human concept — that in that case asylum seekers will seek more than we can reasonably estimate successfully integration into Finland. We have had another million asylum seekers in Europe last year, hundreds of thousands this year. We will not know what will happen until this acute crisis is brought under control, hopefully. There has been a great deal of concern here that if family reunification is not possible, it will make integration more difficult. This is real. But is it not just as true that all efforts to achieve successful integration will fall into the sand if the amounts that Finnish society is trying to integrate clearly exceed what we have realistic conditions for success? Last year more than 32,000 asylum seekers came to Finland. As far as I can tell, we're gonna get through this one shot. We have major difficulties: in the additional budget, hundreds of millions more, the shortage of municipal seats, the lack of interpreters, the shortage of speakers, the Helsinki Administrative Court blocking up, the Supreme Administrative Court blocking up and so on. But we're gonna get through this. But if the number of asylum seekers this year, next year, next year, because we have more favourable opportunities for family reunification than in other countries, rises again to tens of thousands, then we have no realistic prospect of successful integration. The number of people coming last year, or those who are allowed to stay in Finland, is still ahead of the challenges in terms of integration, and the challenges are great, as we all know. If we talk about such amounts every year in the coming years, we will not succeed — not in managing this process of asylum, not in integrating with all the consequences that we are talking about here, with regard to the difficulty of family reunification, exclusion, radicalisation, exclusion from society, the feeling of externality and all the consequences that result. That is why this law is laid down. When Mr Biaudet said at first reading that the attraction factors do not matter when there are no academic studies, then Mr Biaudet is completely wrong about this. The attraction factors play an important role.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u311	Mr President! I would like to say to Mr Zyskowicz directly that I regard this type of legislation as a disgrace, whatever the country is and whatever the parties responsible are. The same world of values applies in Finland and Sweden, and the Swedish Greens have, in practice, suffered a heavy price for this weak government policy and the inability to drive their own goals through the government: the party’s other chairman resigned, and the party’s support has fallen. The supporters of the Swedish Greens do not want such a policy, I would not have agreed to it — they were weak in the government when they even went into this fixed-term law. And I am very pleased that there will be parliamentarians there too, like the Member of the Central Party who defended human dignity there at the hearing. But the situation in Finland is much easier than in Sweden in the sense that Sweden has received a large number of asylum seekers in a short period of time compared to what we have, and we do not have this situation in which the Finnish Government itself should be actively taking steps to undermine human dignity and human rights by restricting it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u312	Mr President! To Mrs Zyskowicz, it is quite true that legislation has been tightened up in the other Nordic countries too, and in this respect it is clear that there are certainly some claims in Finland as well. But then you also have to remember those realities. Take, for example, this Sweden. There this income requirement is more reasonable than in Finland, and in Finland we demand more income from these people than in Sweden. And that is why it is rather strange that, now that you are appealing to Sweden, when last week in this Chamber we proposed that this income requirement should be made according to the Swedish model, it was not good enough in this respect. Tightenings are fine, but it looks like there's no relaxation. And then on this scale too: when we consider that Sweden has borne its burden, 200,000 people last year — 200,000 — and we have 30,000, is it not right to say, however, that Sweden has carried its own burden in many ways compared to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u313	Mr President! To quote from Mr Zyskowicz's bluff: I do not know whether your view is a bluff or whether the view of the Coalition Party is a bluff. You have always advocated tightening up asylum regulations, regardless of whether we had 1500 or 2000 asylum seekers. This is quite a bluff that the question has anything to do with this new situation. I have never been in a debate where you have defended asylum rules, more liberal rules or child protection rules. Your views are not in line with any international expert organisation, and perhaps you have experienced experts, but it may also be useful to get to know the work of organisations and international organisations which have specifically dealt with immigration, asylum seekers, refugees, trafficking in human beings. Everyone thinks so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u314	Madam President! Mr Räsänen, when the Greens in Sweden are said to have resisted these blackmails in the government but are outnumbered, then, apparently, in Sweden, the second government party, the SDP, is the only one genuinely behind the blackmail in Sweden. I am not saying that Sweden has not been very friendly in its refugee policy, but we must remember that last year the fourth largest number of asylum seekers arrived in Finland in Europe in relation to the population. As far as these income limits are concerned, Mr Räsänen, it may be that we have, or at least I have, a little vague information about Swedish legislation, but what I have just read about in Helsingin Sanomat, in Sweden, in the case of an asylum seeker who has received a residence permit on the basis of subsidiary protection, no income, that is, no income, is enough to unite his family — it is 13 months and there is no family combination. Mr Biaudet, I say to you that I do not know that any scientist has claimed that these hundreds or thousands of children are running away from home.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u315	Madam President! It is certainly clear that each country is making legislation primarily from its own starting point, and I am not going here to advise the Social Democrats in Sweden on how to develop their own legislation, but these are some points that I am still addressing. It is true, as Mr Zyskowicz said, that for those who have received subsidiary protection, this requirement for income limits in Sweden is that there is no income sufficient there, but when we come to these income limits for those who have received refugee status, that is where we in Finland demand tougher income limits than in Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u318	Mr President! This speech by Mrs Zyskowicz, which she has just made out of that toilet, clearly tells us something about her own views and values in relation to this issue in the debate. He also pointed out in this speech that he may have poor knowledge of the situation in Sweden. I hope, however, that you do not have so little information on this matter itself and that you will not base your views on it, as you have just said. Among other things, the Refugee Advice Centre has compiled a pretty good "10 arguments and facts about asylum seekers and refugees" in this particular issue of family reunification, and there are a few of these so-called anchor children that you yourself raised in your speech. I hope that you will look into it carefully, including on the website of the Refugee Advice Centre. If you read quickly there, perhaps you will get the right information for the background to these claims.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u319	Mr President! Representative Zyskowicz repeatedly confuses things and distorts the arguments of others. That's why this conversation is passing. Those who say that children are not being sent here are talking about this phenomenon, which many of you from the other side of the hall have directly called anchor children, and scientists and experts say that there is no such phenomenon that a child is being sent here with the intention of somehow abusing the system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u320	Mr President! I am a little confused that when this government immigration policy programme and asylum programme were published in the autumn or sometimes in November, the chairman of the SDP, Antti Rinne, laudedly praised our efforts. I do not know if he did not understand what family reunification is going to mean, or did he not know that living conditions are already the same? This is not about to change the euro. Then I would have said a few more words about sending the children. We did not take a strong position on it in the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, but we unanimously accepted the view of this government's proposal that this could expose children to exploitation. And correct, Mr Niinistö, if I recall incorrectly that the hearing of the Finnish Immigration Service revealed that such indications are there. I'd remember that, now I didn't have time to wade those statements, but this isn't exactly a wind-up argument.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u321	Mr President! To Mr Marin, I think I know these things quite well. As Mr Biaudet said, for decades we have disagreed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u324	Mr President! When Mr Meri there referred to what the Social Democrats have said or have not said on this subject before, we are thinking now of the fact that the government has announced that it will adopt the means that the directive on family reunification will provide, for example, not in these means of the directive, when we talk about this secure livelihood, how Finland will define a secure livelihood. Finland defines its secure livelihood just as it wishes in national legislation, and that is why we proposed that this proposal, which you have made, should be made reasonable by applying the same principle in determining the guaranteed income as Sweden does. In this way we would be doing the common Nordic policy in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u325	I would like to give the floor to the representatives of Niinistö, Meri and Zyskowicz, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u326	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz, I am sure that there is a need for families to see what happens to their underage children in their own country in conditions of persecution, war, confusion, famine, various extremisms that threaten the future of their children. The fact that families send or help their children to leave these conditions, or that their families break apart in the feet of war and their children drift apart from their own families, has nothing to do with doubting their motives that legislation here in the civilised state should seek to prevent such people from seeking protection in this country at all. Now, however, this is basically a question of the human image. When you, Mr Zyskowicz, try to deny that there is no human image here, you want a little bit of what you are doing in social security, that is why you feel that when there are some phenomena of abuse, the human rights of ordinary people are being reduced, and that is quite the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u327	Mr President! However, I would like to say to Mrs Räsänen that I spoke about what Mrs Rinne, your President, said last autumn, and you then said that we accepted the idea that the directive on family reunification should be introduced if I understood correctly. I mean, we are not even going to make full use of it. After all, there is a housing requirement and property conditions, and now you are talking about what has been discussed on Thursday last week. I spoke about what your President has said last November. I did not say anything about what you requested last Thursday to withdraw the law. It would be good to listen carefully to what we are talking about and then do not have to bring such things into that debate — we have a long evening anyway — that have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u328	Mr President! Mr Ville To Niinistö, all I have to say is that when it comes to concern about families, the right of children to live with their parents, the right of parents to have children with them and to have them with them, I think that our common concern is that Finnish legislation would not be such as to encourage a process whereby minors are separated from their families, where minors are sent on a journey by human smugglers on a life-threatening journey across the world. That is what this is all about. I repeat that if you do not want to believe me, you can arrange for a meeting at the Little Parliament's diner with someone who at least knows the situation of these Afghan minors — whom some 2,000 have come to Finland last year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u329	And we move on to the list of speakers. I would like to say that the people who have asked for answers here are next on the list of actual speakers and now we are moving forward in this way. — Representative Aalto, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u330	Mr President! Yesterday was the world's refugee day. However, attention must be paid to the problem of refugees in the world every day of the year. One might imagine that in a country that experienced the horrors of war, prepared for tens of hundreds of millions of refugees when the Soviet Union dissolved, there would be a particularly good understanding of the situation of refugees in the world, but no, the government of our country has made its position clear. Instead of doing everything in its power to help the weakest in the world, it cuts development cooperation record-breakingly and makes family reunification virtually impossible. In a legal state called Finland, the right to a family is measured in money for some. If you have received a positive asylum decision, you must earn more than the average Finnish earns in order to unite your family. This is usually answered by the fact that a positive asylum decision has the right to family reunification for a period of three months without income limits. However, since an application for family reunification cannot be made first of all by a person in Finland and cannot be made electronically either, it is often impossible to travel to the nearest Finnish embassy without money and papers — especially if you have to travel through a conflict area or live there. The second point referred to in this connection, in particular with regard to children, is the possibility in Article 39 of the Aliens Act to derogate from the income limits for an exceptionally heavy reason or in the interests of the child. However, the examples of the application of a derogation from the Government proposal, the serious illness or disability of the child, show that this is a highly exceptional procedure in which the best interests of the child are not sufficiently realised. Mr President! The Government's aim is to achieve the best possible integration. With its own proposals, however, the government takes away its most important issue of integration, the family. Each one of us may wonder for himself how well the week would go if we had to be scared every minute for our own family and wonder if the last contact was the last time you heard of your loved ones. This has happened to many of the people I face face - to - face in numerous reception centers in Finland. In addition, blocking legal asylum routes and opportunities leads to other family members being either driven to the mercy of human smugglers or forced to remain in the middle of the war. Every drowning asylum seeker, every civilian who died in the conflict is also our responsibility. We can do more, we must do more, and we must demand that our government do more. Mr President! That is why I support Mr Kari's motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u331	Mr President! Last week and this evening, the debate on this law has certainly already said all the things about why this law is inhumane. The law has been opposed here by representatives of opposition parties, and the Finns have spoken for it. According to some of their representatives, it is in harmony with the basic Finnish ideolo-gia to prevent immigrants from coming here. Here at the mouth of Ben Zyskowicz, the Coalition Party has bravely tried to defend this law. No one here has spoken on their side but one representative last week. The citizens of the city have not spoken at all. I believe that this debate has been very sad to hear and has shown a really cruel and cold image of the government. Today, when foreign and security policy lines were drawn together in this Chamber for Finland, we talked about how, in a more interdependent world, Finland promotes international stability, human rights, the rule of law and equality. Well, this growing interdependence of worlds is reflected, for example, in this issue of refugees, and it is therefore important that Finland shoulder its own responsibilities here. Not only do we not undermine the right of people who have come here and who have received international protection for the family, but we also need to address the countries of origin and the reasons why we have to leave. Unfortunately, however, even these proposals have not been brought by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u332	Mr President! The representatives of the government parties cannot escape from the fact that the actual practical impact of this proposal, and even the stated aim of many representatives, is that Finland should receive as few refugees as possible, that it would be as difficult for them as possible to come here and that it would be as difficult for them as possible to secure their families so that they would not come here. This is the goal of the government parties. The idea is that the world’s crises and emergencies will be eliminated by the fact that when they are out of sight they will be out of your mind. Finland can be cold and hard, close the borders and then think that things would then be better here in the country. Well, I do not believe that a country and a government that restricts the human rights of those seeking refuge here will also hold to the Finns' poor. And the evidence shows that this government does not care about the poor Finns, because it has also cut very hard from low incomes in Finland — students, pensioners, the sick — by raising interest rates. And those parties, who no longer have representatives from the People's Republic of Finland here, argue that we cannot help those who come from elsewhere, because the need for help in Finland is great: why are they cutting off people in need and justice in this country at all?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u333	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u334	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u335	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u337	Mr President! More than half of the world's refugees are actually children, and this year more than 213,500 people have come across the Mediterranean to Europe to seek asylum. The dead are this year, already this year, 2859. It is a thousand more than last year at this time, a thousand more than last year. The reason that more women and children are drowning at the moment is that countries such as Finland are signalling that now these refugees who have come here cannot safely get their families through family reunification. How dare anyone say that defending children's rights protects children from getting into trouble when they prefer to see more people drown in the Mediterranean Sea? Through internal transfers, Finland has promised to apply for a respectable number of asylum seekers from Greece. However, Finland has done nothing to implement the entire quota. It has picked up quite a few hundred people and is proud of this. Why do we leave these people there in substandard, inhuman camps in Greece? When are you going to do something to fulfill our promises, which the government has already made?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u338	Mr President! This is the last time I thought about coming to this podium. When it is usually said in this Chamber on these immigration issues that we should help at a certain point — usually these blackmails in us or elsewhere are justified by the fact that maybe we should help there in the countries of origin or along the route in reception centres or refugee camps or in some other country and not necessarily here — then perhaps it is good to look at this deeper trend that the government has now had. All government parties, including the Finns, have said many times that it is not good for a person to seek refuge from us here in the Nordic countries, but should help on the ground. Well, then, if we look at the measures the government is taking in this policy, I believe that — representatives of the government parties can correct if I am wrong — there is a significant reduction in the resources for development that have just been sought to help on the ground. If we look at the whole refugee crisis, the factors behind it will very simply come to the conclusion that, for example, the withdrawal of resources from international organisations, such as the UN refugee organisation, drove people out of refugee camps, causing the conditions to deteriorate. So, in this regard, when the government parties say that we have to help on the ground, then you would think that the policy, for example in development cooperation, would be somewhat different from that of the government today. The second comment usually relates to the fact that these issues really need to be resolved at European level. Well, in this matter the government may have a little better record, but it must still be pointed out that the question that has been chafing Europe all the time is whether the burden is shared evenly, whether each country bears the responsibility it bears. And here, in fact, the summit in which these internal transfers were decided was a milestone in the autumn. However, it is good to point out in this Chamber that Finland's position at the time was to abstain. When it was decided whether this responsibility will be shared between all European countries, whether it will be fairly distributed, divided according to carrying capacity and divided so as to oblige each country, Finland abstained. In this regard too, the government's statement that something should be done in Europe is quite right, but it will then require these actions. It also demands that, while we are reforming European practices relating to the management of immigration, for example, Finland undertakes that Finland, along with other countries, assumes its own responsibilities and commits itself to such internal transfers, for example, so that we can really manage, as Mr Niinistö said here, that the burden is shared more fairly and that the pressure on one country is not as great as it is at present. Well, then let's move on to this third: When we say that the most in need now should at least be helped right here in Finland, then we have to see what the government is doing in this context too. And in this context too, the government states that aid to those in need will be provided in such a way that we continue to tighten up our legislation. So all these fronts are weakened. In the countries of origin, we are undermining the status of refugees by cutting back on development cooperation. In Europe, we are weakening the status of refugees by the fact that we have still not received the common European solution, and in this context the fact that the Finnish Government really decided to abstain at last autumn's summit does not seem to me to be the policy of the Finnish Government. And thirdly, this is how people are treated in Finland — here we are constantly tightening up our legislation. And now that Mr Zyskowicz is there to write down notes and I am sure he is still getting up here in the toilet, I want to say very clearly that I understand very well that in some respects, for example, in Finland, foreign law has been tightened up and will continue to be tightened up. I accept that, that's all right. But some sense and humanity in these blackmails must be carried along. Now that we consider this bill in question, for example for children, everyone can say that it is inhumane for children. And when reference is made here to whether or not children are always sent to seek that protection, whatever the criteria for family reunification are, if families decide to send their children in the countries of origin, they will send this — regardless of what the law of family reunification is — because in any case, to countries where the legislation on family reunification is even stricter than in Finland, there will still be minor asylum seekers. They're not gone. In any case, asylum seekers will come regardless of how strict foreign law is in a country. On this basis, if we were to draw the conclusion that the stricter the legislation, the fewer asylum seekers would come, we could go and ask Germany how they have achieved this. Or Austria. Or Italy. There's plenty of asylum seekers. The question is now more about whether we really want to help those who seek protection in Finland and who go through a long process during which it is stated that they really need it. Once they have received a residence permit, they have a legal basis to stay in Finland, so they need international protection — do we want to make their everyday life a little easier? After all, that is what this is all about. And all the relief proposals for this legislation, which was discussed last Thursday in this Chamber, would have made it a little easier for the people to be given this international protection in any case. Then various measures will address what Mr Zyskowicz has pointed out here, how many asylum seekers are still potentially coming. And in this context, it may be worth saying that it is true that, depending on whether a person has received international protection, has obtained refugee status or has obtained subsidiary protection, it certainly matters to which countries, for example, to seek protection from certain nationalities. And when we know that these messages do run between people online and they also involve a lot of this kind of disinformation and false information about how maybe then in certain countries practices work, then it is important that Finland also corrects the false information that has been disseminated in Iraq, for example. And that is what Finland has done last autumn, for example, and that is a good thing, because we must always ensure that the practices we have in Finland are also known throughout Europe. But to this end, I would like to say that at this stage at the latest, when it turns out that the government does not so much want to help refugees on the ground, in the countries of origin, it does not want to help refugees in Europe along the way and does not want to help them in Finland, so let us be honest with you that this is the government's line and that it is going. That's all I'm asking at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u339	Mr President! This law, the draft law that we are now discussing, is essentially about whether the refugee, the asylum seeker has the right to a family or not, whether these people have the right to their neighbours, to secure their fellowmen in the midst of violence, conflict, war, whether we are going to make the choice that human rights continue to belong to all refugees, including refugees, or not, because, in practice, these blackmails that are now being carried out in relation to family reunification mean that it is almost impossible to involve them in this new country which has arrived, but probably not in the future. I have been rather saddened not only by the debate that has taken place in this Chamber, but also by a number of speakers today, thanks to Mrs Räsänen, Mr Niinistö, Mr Biaudet, many others who have spoken well, but also to this overall debate which has recently taken place in society, for example, with regard to this individual case, the Iraqi family, which has become very public. There was a situation where the family was being broken up because it was considered that the income limits were not met. At that point, Home Secretary Orpo, President Niinistö, many representatives of the government parties, were horrified at how this could happen. However, this bill is now being put to the vote, which in practice will mean that there will be an increase in cases like this. They become a rule and no longer an exception, an individual case. Once again, I wonder where the members of the assembly, the representatives of the city centre, are. who in this Chamber are voting in favour of this government's proposal and then in public speak with an entirely different voice. I believe that
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u340	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u341	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u342	Mr President! Mr Ville Niinistö has criticised me for deliberately misunderstanding the speeches that have been made here, but when I listened to Mr Ville Niinistö's speech on this joint European response to this refugee crisis, I did understand that he meant that as long as such a common solution has not been reached, Finland should not take any of its own decisions, for example, in order to tighten up family reunification. This would mean that when countries other than However, Finland is doing so, i.e. tightening the conditions for family reunification and other conditions related to its asylum policy, and Finland would be clearly more attractive to asylum seekers than to other Nordic countries, all of which have tightened the conditions, or to other European countries. Well, if this is the case and when you are concerned about the success of integration for these people, do you not at all worry that the number of asylum seekers in Finland will rise to such an extent that this same concern that you are concerned about the success of integration, if the family cannot be combined, would be applicable to a situation in which there will be so many people seeking protection in Finland that we do not have, as a Finnish society, any preconditions for success in the integration of these people? — I'll take it from the toilet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u343	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u344	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u345	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u346	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u348	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u349	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u350	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u351	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u352	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz, if your values, your goals and your vision of the world were fulfilled, quite a few needy refugees for decades and centuries would have been left without security in this world. I am really glad that in the 1930s the countries that accepted those who were in need did not think that there were attraction factors. Almost as a general rule, crises, wars, persecutions, famines and various internally shocked conditions in countries that are falling apart are the reasons why people are getting off the ground. Refugees flee in distress and are given security because it is humanly right. You're talking about attraction, like these people come here as tourists. I think it is an inhuman worldview, and if such a world view were to take place in politics, the world’s most distressed would have no door to let them in when they knocked.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u353	Mr President! I have listened to Mr Zyskowicz's speeches last week and today, and I have now had a few questions and amazements. I've tried to understand, but I haven't succeeded yet. Since there has been talk that this tightening up of family reunification would reduce asylum seekers coming here and this must be pursued now in the government's opinion, if, with this bill of law, we do not interfere with the conditions, when international protection will be granted, if a person who has been persecuted from a country has come here, with a very high probability that his family will escape the same situation, then is it better for these children and women to be sent here along dangerous routes, if they still receive that asylum when they come here? That is what I have not understood here, why we want to make the routes more difficult, why we want to do so under the conditions that we want to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u354	Mr President! As I have probably already said, each country will probably make the national policy from its own point of view, as it wishes to do, and partly then the national policy will be influenced by the decisions taken in other countries, and this will probably apply both to Sweden and, in this case, to Finland. But still, when we come to what are called gravitational factors, I think that if we in Europe were to abide by the common rules of the game that we ourselves have agreed upon together, then it would not be the case that from Greece to Austria, Germany, Denmark, Sweden and then to Finland to travel through safe countries, but that he would seek refuge in the first country to which he arrives. That is what I hope now that the government will concentrate its efforts on enabling it to amend the Dublin Regulation in such a way that it really means it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u355	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u356	Mr President! If I have just understood correctly, Mr Biaudet expressed his concern that Finland has acted inadequately in relation to the voluntary burden-sharing mechanism that took place last autumn. However, by the end of May, only around 2000 people had been transferred from Italy and Greece to re-allocated 160,000 asylum seekers, of whom nearly 300 had been transferred to Finland, or almost a sixth.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u357	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u358	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u359	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u360	Mr President! I say to Mr Räsänen that if the European system, the Geneva Convention on Refugees, the Dublin Convention and others were to act, it would certainly not be the case that such a number of people would come who would not seek asylum in the first, second, third, or fifth, or so on, but would end up in the north of Finland. But when this system doesn't work at the moment,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u361	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u362	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u363	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u364	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u365	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u366	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u367	Mr President! Finally, what we are going to vote on here tomorrow is the choice, the choice of whether we believe in some hypothetical threat that is uncontrollable to us and which talks about theoretical people elsewhere and about us rejecting them here by making legislation that reduces human rights in Finland, or whether we are talking about the right people who are already in Finland, who we are meeting in those reception centres, which we see suffering from not seeing their wives, children in this country — they are deeply concerned about what happens to them in their own countries and countries of origin — and that the right of these people to have loved ones in Finland is being restricted. This is about the right people who suffer who want to be with their loved ones. I want to live under the rule of law, where the concerns of these real people lie at the heart of the legislation, that everyone in this country is good to be and this country is an attractive country for everyone in the sense that it is good to work, integrate, live, try and live here. There is no point in trying to make this country as miserable as possible because of hypothetical fears, and that is what we will vote on tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u368	Mr President! While Mr Zyskowicz in this Chamber bravely defends the brutal and inhumane policies and choices of the government, at least in my opinion, with regard to family reunification, I do not believe that even the lines of government parties are as direct as those of Mrs Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u369	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u370	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u371	Mr President! I am already sorry to prolong the good debate, but perhaps I will take the opportunity to speak again. In fact, I would perhaps have liked to say to Mr Zyskowicz that in this last speech of yours there were not so many things that we would disagree with in this fundamental way. And now, if we look back on that debate last Thursday, then I also went through it quite specifically, that I fully understand that, even in this situation too, Finland will tighten up its own family reunification practice and other legislation in relation to asylum seekers, for example. But then the crucial question is that, when tightened up, how much and whether, even after these strict predictions, the humanity will remain that we really help those who are most in need. And I will go on to say that if the three proposals that were presented here last week had been adopted, still — still — we have the foreign law and the practices of family reunification that have become more stringent than the current practices. So, even if we had relaxed this government proposal on these three points, we would still have stricter legislation on family reunification in the future than we have now. In that respect, however, I think that, when the debate has taken place, whether Finland can not tighten up completely — that certainly not, at least in my opinion. But in the matter of how much is being tightened up, there must be a lot of reflection and, hopefully, humanity, and perhaps that is what the government lacks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u372	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u373	Mr President! Legal advice and legal aid are essential to ensuring access to justice. We in the Committee on Legal Affairs dealt with this government proposal for a very long time, and the expert consultations, the expert opinions that came out of this proposal were quite cold and very unambiguous. When the right of asylum seekers to legal aid is undermined and the appeal against these decisions is made more difficult, it is quite clear that this undermines the legal protection of those fleeing war and persecution. This is well known to the government, as is the case with the fact that the tightening up of family reunification, which has just been discussed, is going to hit these most vulnerable children. Yet, not one of the extenuating proposals made for this government proposal was supported by the government’s ranks. Only in the case that this legal aid was even taken away from the children of asylum seekers when it was found to be totally unconstitutional, fortunately, the government had to withdraw, even in it. But that's about to be the only good thing about this show. In fact, the only argument that has been put forward for this proposal from the government's ranks is that this will generate savings, but it became very clear in the expert hearings that this argument will also serve as a basis. This proposal as a whole creates a very foreign and unequal model in our legal system, which is totally unacceptable, and therefore, Mr President, I am proposing to reject these proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u374	Mr President! Here, too, I urge you to support the rejection of Mrs Emma Kari. In the past years, Karpo was the most popular TV programme in Finland. It regularly collected 1.5 million viewers. Why, for as many as 26 years, did Finns follow life-stricken situations in which ordinary people had experienced injustice and felt that they were victims of abuse of justice? Because Finland is the rule of law. In some South American country, the cases raised by Hannu Karpo would not have been alarmed, because they happen to each of them all the time. The chastisement in which the programme appeared and the programme was viewed was based on disappointment and shock that Finland is not getting justice. Trust in the rule of law was shaken. What is the rule of law? The rule of law is the one that gives justice even to those who cannot defend their rights themselves. In fact, they are the most vulnerable and it is for them that the rule of law is essential. If tens of thousands of people born in Finland are in trouble when they have to deal with the legal system, how can those who have just come to Finland understand the Finnish legal system and their own legal security? Refusal of asylum seekers to professional legal assistance undermines the Finnish rule of law. It rejects its main principle: the rights of those who do not know how to claim their rights. To top it all off, asylum processes are becoming longer and more complicated. In the interview, language problems and misunderstandings increase. The speaking hours are increasing and there will be a need for further consultations. Many different authorities are forced to play puzzled cases with one another. The purpose of the bill, such as the entire immigration policy, is to send a message to the Middle East and North Africa that it is not worth coming here. There is a desire to reduce these famous attraction factors. Well, now the message may be that if you come to Finland, you don't have to leave for a long time because of bureaucracy. Mr President! It is worth remembering that the rejection message we want to send, not only reaches the immigrants that the government does not want, but also the immigrants that Finland should want: international professionals, young experts. Finland sends a message that no one is welcome. Animosity based on skin color does not distinguish its subjects. If an Indian IT engineer has to be afraid of street patrols, if an American basketball player has to avoid the streets of the city at night, they will choose another country where they are wanted, even attracted. Investment is hoped for in Finland, as well as hundreds of millions of capital and hundreds of euros of tourist income. Finland’s attractiveness factors for investment are, firstly, the rule of law, good public services, security for everyone, a culture that accepts everyone, and, in my opinion, the polite kindness that still characterises the vast majority of Finns. Let us take care of the attraction factors that enable Finland to become more successful in the digital world economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u375	Mr President! From the outset, I would like to say that I support Mrs Kari's motion for rejection, an objection. I believe that the lack of an assistant is particularly problematic in the case of minors. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore considers that the proposed limitation of legal aid also for minors does not fit within the limits allowed by Article 21 of the Constitution. According to the Child Ombudsman, the presence of a legal assistant in an asylum interview should be considered on a low threshold whenever the householder is a child. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that, due to the vulnerable position of children, they cannot be expected to be able to express themselves and act in the asylum procedure without a representative and expert legal assistant.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u376	Mr President! It's just two points. The government's proposal, as well as the committee's report, was based on the fact that a minor had an assistant. The Government had made this idea and the basic line in the explanatory statement of the proposal, which mentioned the particularly powerful reasons for which the assistant should be on the basis, and the fact that minors such as traumatisation and other grounds were experienced and mentioned as such. The fact that it was not in the section, contrary to the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, does not mean that, contrary to what has already been said here on the previous issue, the government itself would not have left the situation of having a minor child as an assistant. In addition to this, it is worth noting that there is always a representative of the minor, i.e. in the case of the minor, both the child’s representative and the child’s legal assistant are present in the interview. The second point I draw attention to here is the description of these amounts on page 3 of the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. The Government's proposal estimates that around 10,000 will appeal to the Helsinki Administrative Court and around 5,000 to the Supreme Administrative Court, i.e. to apply for a permit to appeal there. This amount gives a good impression when you consider that, normally, there have been some 7,500 other matters at the Helsinki Administrative Court every year and about 4,000 at the Supreme Administrative Court. I just wanted to mention in support of what I said in the previous debate on the matter that account should also be taken of the resources that Finland has.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u377	Mr President! As far as this draft law is concerned, it must also be said that this objective is very much to be welcomed, and I believe that everyone in this Chamber will share it. But when we go into these details, we really need to see whether these proposed measures are now implementing this objective of making this process of asylum and the processes involved smoother and shorter. In view of what the biggest bottleneck in our processes is at the moment, it is really related to the work carried out by the Finnish Immigration Service in this asylum investigation and its decision. When it is estimated that it will be dealt with for about 9 months and after that, if a person complains about this decision, the court procedure first in the administrative court for about five months and then in the Supreme Administrative Court for another four months, then, in these respects, there is a strong suspicion that both this period of appeal and the assistant's right of access will not really support the smoothing of this process. This has also been confirmed by experts in a number of cases that the great fear is that the duration of this process, which is already quite long, will in fact continue to increase. I very much hope that, now that this bill, too, will certainly receive a blessing from this big hall tomorrow, attention will also be paid to monitoring this legislation, how this will really affect them in time. As the committees, both the Administrative Committee when issuing its opinion and the Legal Committee, have intervened in the need to monitor how these changes are implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u378	Mr President! This is, perhaps as has been said here today, such a bluff law in the sense that the government, as it were, has set objectives, but all the experts, particularly the judges and the courts, have said that they will not happen, quite the opposite. Especially considering that the aim is to shorten processing times, they are afraid that this will lead to longer processing times and no savings at all. The second question raised here by Mr Zyskowicz was this 'particularly powerful reason', which is new in this legislation, and, in particular, the legal scholars and, in practice, the judges who decided matters questioned this'special reason', that what it means and could not explain the specific circumstances in which it would be put into practice. So I am also in favour of rejecting this draft law because these objectives are not actually being achieved, and this is above all a question of a code of signals which wants to show in some way that we are strengthening the legal protection of refugees and asylum seekers — and in fact we are also breaking the foundations of the rule of law by developing such two parallel systems for different groups of peoples.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u379	Mr President! With regard to this bill too, as with many other legislative proposals which we have dealt with and will deal with in relation to this foreign law, I would like to start by saying that it is very problematic that this is coming in such pieces, in drops, so that it is very problematic to see what this foreign law as a whole is going to be. That is, first of all, criticism of this legislative process in the meantime. Just as Mr Biaudet said, these concerns were well expressed in the deliberations of the Legal Committee and in the expert opinions that, although this is the aim of reducing and improving these processes and their duration, it is likely that the opposite will actually happen here: for example, this reduction in the time for complaints from the beginning of the process, when it is reduced from 30 to 21 days, can in the worst case lead to a significant lengthening of the processing processes themselves when things are not resolved at an early stage. In just the same way, the limitation of legal aid can lead to these processes being prolonged and, from this point of view, it does not make sense either, let alone to go into the legal review and the human rights review and the review of equality, when they take a rather strange view from that point of view. This bill as a whole — and this has been discussed here last week and there has been a lot of talk about it — like many other legislative proposals in the foreign law that have been brought to the House, I think it is a rather sad story about the government's values and ideals and that, in fact, without resorting to any means at all. [First Vice-President Mario Pekkarinen : I ask the speaker to move to ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u381	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u382	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u383	Mr President! The Court of Justice Act is a large and necessary package. The content of the law is largely acceptable, but with regard to the reform of the education system for judges, there are a number of questions about both the costs of the change in the education system and why the reform of the education system was not carried out in the context of the establishment of a judicial office. The Judiciary has been critical of the changes to the legislation relating to the education system, and that is why I am making two statements on the table. I propose that the following statements be adopted by Parliament. Statement 1: "The Board of Directors requires the Government to request a revised calculation of the actual costs of the reform contained in the Government's proposal." Declaration 2: "The Commission requires that the training of judges be transferred to the independent judicial office at the time of its establishment and the continuation of the activities of the judicial training commission and the need for assortment posts be reassessed in the context of the establishment of the judicial office. Parliament also requires that the reform should strengthen the independence of the courts and increase the role of judges in permanent office in the judiciary."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u384	Mr President! The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has well recognised the problems and challenges posed by this bill. In my opinion, however, they should lead to a resolution that is called 2. The proposal for a law is rejected here. I'm going to play 2. rejection of the draft law for these reasons mentioned by the previous speaker. I also support the two statements made by Mr Hänninen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u385	Mr President! First of all, I support Mr Biaudet's motion for rejection. This point, although I am in favour of it and this is the case in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, has to be said, in contrast to previous laws, that there is a need to reform the law as a whole, and this has been well mentioned in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in all discussions. But then there are some of these problems, and we believe that it would have made sense, for example, to move this system of judicial training to the point when the judicial office is hopefully set up, and then this development of training could be transferred inside. So there is criticism in this respect, but it is good that this proposal has been brought here to Parliament as a whole. This whole spring has been discussed, there has certainly been a great deal of work for the whole committee, and a lot of experts have been consulted. In other words, a welcome whole but, in some respects, problematic, and I support these proposals by Mr Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u386	Mr President! Congressman Marin took my word out of the mouth. In other words, I also support the motion for rejection tabled by Mr Biaudet in relation to this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u387	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u388	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Transport within Finland by means of a vehicle registered in another country means cabotage. The Government's proposal proposes to amend the law on commercial goods transport on the road so that the national definitions of cabotage in Finland are repealed and merely refer to the relevant provisions of the European Union. According to Finland’s current law, cabotage is considered to be a transport operation according to current national definitions of each unloading operation. In addition, cabotage may only be carried out on a temporary basis, i.e. no more than 10 transports over a period of three months by the same car. An existing agreement on cabotage transport shall not be concluded. The key difference between Finland's definitions and EU regulations is how to calculate transported loads. In Finland, separate transport is also counted when part of the load is unloaded along the way. The EU does not distinguish between such partial loads, but transport is counted as a single load even if it is exported to different locations. After a change of law, one cabotage operation could cause several unloadings in different locations. The definition of cabotage temporaryity would also be removed. Mr President! Road freight transport is a major tax collector and payer. An annual turnover of EUR 6 billion will amount to EUR 2.7 billion in taxes and parafiscal charges paid by companies and employees to society. This government proposal therefore plays a particularly important economic and social role. This government proposal does not contribute to the objectives of reducing unemployment and increasing tax revenues. In an interview, Minister Berner said that opening up transport to foreign competition would facilitate transport and reduce costs, benefiting the economy. Such thinking does not support Finnish, ordinary small and medium-sized transport companies. This liberalisation of foreign trucks will not result in cheaper transport to Finnish industry or trade unless the cost of transport is based on the violation of Finnish labour law and the pricing of drivers. A European example of this is a harsh language: a much cheaper service is created mainly through the violation of the rules of the game, and the flints roll the profits. It is therefore appropriate to ask whether the government has turned its back on the domestic transport sector and whether it intends to make Finnish, professional heavy-duty drivers and entrepreneurs unemployed. Deteriorating the sector will increase government unemployment expenditure and reduce tax revenues. A policy that is based on the cheapness of small entrepreneurs and wage earners is not sustainable. It will not bring about growth and employment. A person who is not certain of his salary does not build a house does not spend money on services purchased from companies, does not buy and spend. In this case, the wheels do not rotate, but stop, as has now been done in Finland in part. Mr President! During the last term of government, Foreign Minister Tuomioja stood firmly alongside the Minister for Transport, defending Finnish small and medium-sized transport entrepreneurs and drivers. Now the policy of Foreign Minister Soin is opening up the transport market for foreign trucks. It is well known that companies coming from EU countries with lower wages run counter to Finnish labour law and this leads to two unequal markets in road freight transport. Control does not work and the government did not want to improve it in line with the SDP's proposals. Denmark is going to use its card. A joint game between Denmark and Finland last season. Why not back in the days of Foreign Minister Soin? Mr President! In my opinion, Finland should by no means throw itself on its back and leave the game unfinished. Intimidation by fines and damages is pointless, as they do not pose a practical risk. I wonder, therefore, that Minister Soini lets Finland play itself out voluntarily. Now we should have been persistent and seen the cards with the EU to the end. In practice, Finland has no risk of retroactive fines or liability even if Finland's legislation finds that the EU regulation is not in conformity with the law. According to settled case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, liability for damages is not applicable until three conditions are met: 1) The purpose of a broken legal standard is to give rights to individuals. 2) The infringement is sufficiently obvious. 3) The damage suffered by individuals is directly causally linked to the infringement. In this case, these conditions are not met, as Finland’s national legislation is not in direct conflict with the EU Regulation. Damage compensation to a foreign company is only applicable if Finland’s legislation actually causes damage to an existing company. In addition, the company must base its claims for damages and calculation on the fact that it would pay wages and compensation in accordance with Finnish labour law and collective agreements for work done in Finland. This will at the latest eliminate the risk of damages. The government should have considered solutions that would have sought a permanent, wider solution to the problem itself without immediately amending its own national legislation. The coming EU road package would have allowed this to happen. Furthermore, the government did not want to make its own national tightening of the Posted Workers Directive. There is a risk that, with the application of the Posting of Workers Directive, the EU regulation on cabotage will be reformed in such a way as to open up the seven-day and three transport rules proposed by the government. The number of gigs should be eliminated because, with the application of the Posting of Workers Directive, the transport market is considered to have exactly the same rules of play in each Member State. Yes, the government would have preferred, as long as possible, to adhere to the national provisions of Finland and to apply the posted workers directive as rigorously as possible. President! We Social Democrats, together with the Left Left Alliance, submitted an objection in committee and I propose to reject this government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u389	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! "Good morning, Finland. Your son is up and working hard again." Thus comes Junnu Vainio’s favorite song about hardworking transport workers and entrepreneurs. We have come to the day — or should I say to the night — when so-called cabotage legislation is in the Chamber at second reading, and tomorrow we will be able to vote on it. The stages with this government bill have been very complex and complex. We are talking about a sector with a turnover of EUR 6 billion, almost half of which is tax revenue for the state. The sector employs 100,000 workers. This is therefore a very important sector in Finnish society, and last morning, in the demonstration of a truck protest before the Parliament House, we heard that the abolition of national legislation threatens up to hundreds of hauliers and even thousands of workers. Currently, in Finland, cabotage is restricted to up to ten transports over three months by the same car. In addition, each unloading and partial unloading is counted as separate transport. These national provisions are now ready to be dismantled by the government. The government parties have said that they are doing all of this, because of the loss of competitiveness in the transport sector, because of the increase in the black economy and because of the weakening of road safety, because of the EU's will. As Mr Taavitsainen has already said, and I would like to reiterate that, in practice, Finland has no risk of retroactive fines or liability for damages. According to the established practice of the Court of Justice of the European Union, liability for damages is not applicable until three conditions have been met, the first being that the infringement is intended to confer rights on individuals; the second is that the infringement is sufficiently obvious; and the third is that the damage suffered by a private person is directly linked to the infringement. On a regular basis, the Commission will refer each Member State to the Court of Justice for failing to fully amend all legislation in line with the EU's will. The transport sector is currently in great difficulty throughout Europe, precisely because of unhealthy working conditions, the non-compliance with the rules of the game and the use of cheap labour. For this reason too, the cards should have been finished, as Denmark does. We also know that the road transport package is in the process of being prepared by the Commission and that it will also lead to guidelines and reforms on this issue. Mr President! I would like two entries in the minutes: When we discussed this government proposal at first reading, Mr Pakkanen said that the joint protest by the SDP and the left was wrong about the resources of the grey economy. The matter has been examined separately, and the quote mentioned in the objection is unfortunately a fact. In other words, from the beginning of 2016, the special allocation for combating the shadow economy was removed by the Government. Then, another matter which was contested by the representative of the government party at first reading of the bill was the reduction of police resources by the government, which also plays a role in traffic control and monitoring in relation to cabotage. In my own speech, I raised the issue of reducing the number of police officers during the parliamentary term to 6,500. This figure is reflected in a report prepared by the Police Board to the Administrative Committee on the impact of the level of appropriations set out in the Government's draft budget on the number of police officers, so that that figure was also true. Mr President! With regard to the complex debate mentioned at the outset, I cannot fail to mention two speeches from the many and many who have dealt with the issue. On 10 February, Mr Jalonen, Chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, said on the Finnish News: "The cabotage proposal is now in the Committee on Transport and Communications. It will be dealt with thoroughly by the whole Parliament. We need to find the best solution for Finland and Finnish transport companies." Another quote from Mr Kopra, member of the Committee on Transport and Communications: "At its worst, this could lead to Finnish companies competing out of the market. In allowing cabotage, it should not have been so easy to give up." Mr President! I support Mr Taavija's rejection of this government bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u390	Mr President! On that point, I would like to say that in this debate on cabotage there are many speakers who have referred to the fact that statistics on this cabotage show that this would be very small here in Finland. However, I think it is important to point out that these statistics are not very reliable. It is also very important to note that, now that this cabotage business has been recorded in this strict national legislation of Finland, of course it is less so, because that is what we have hoped would not be so common. This statistics cannot justify that we can change this law now, because it would not be so common, because I bet it will be very widespread after this amendment of the law. Mr President! I would also like to mention that before the elections many Finns have also spoken against cabotage in the same terms as we have here. Among other things, MP Juho Eerola said: "Finland travels on rubber wheels. We'll continue to do it with domestic strength. Allowing cabotage in Finland eats domestic jobs. Only by voting can you influence." President! To conclude, I would like to say that the fight is not about the souls of the voters, but about Finnish jobs and tax revenues, and now the government's decision weighs the blood who are prepared to defend them when the truth comes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u391	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u392	Mr President! I think it is very important that we improve the equal access of citizens to the information society. Online services and e-services with different authorities are so commonplace that we can already talk about basic services. The service should be a free basic right similar to the Kela card, which is sent to all citizens. Unfortunately, electronic authentication tools in Finland are too bank-dependent. The committee was concerned about the fact that banks have a de facto monopoly status with regard to electronic identifiers. Hundreds of thousands of Finns are excluded because of the high cost of the service or other reasons. They are enforcement debtors who do not receive bank IDs or low-income pensioners or unemployed persons. There are also other categories of persons for whom electronic means of identification are a problem, for example persons who, because of minors, illness or other restrictions, cannot do business electronically themselves and the other person is not entitled to do business on behalf of the person. As the committee points out in its report, family carers often have similar problems when dealing with matters of their own. I therefore believe, Mr President, that it is absolutely necessary for the government to find out how access to and use of electronic means of identification will be secured for these categories of persons.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u393	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u394	Mr President! The report of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Citizens' Rights on the Government's proposal for amendments to the University and University of Applied Sciences Act states, among other things, that "The cooperation made possible by the bill will improve the efficient use of resources, e.g. avoiding duplication, as well as the creation of added value for students through a wider supply of language teaching. The implementation of the proposal would, among other things, strengthen the possibility of learning rare languages without compromising other teaching and its quality." Mr President! Cooperation between universities, universities and universities of applied sciences is therefore very much to be welcomed in many respects. A very good example of this cooperation is the Tampere 3 reform planned in Tampere, which lowers educational and administrative barriers between educational institutions — not only in the area of language learning, but also elsewhere. It will not only bring savings in the future, but also improve students' chances of combining theory and practice in studies better than at present. This is particularly important for the emergence of new innovations that our export industry and other companies definitely need. Mr President! An experiment on free language selection has also been recorded in the Government Programme. The freedom of choice of language learning would bring increasing numbers of international language experts to the labour market and offer excellent opportunities for further learning and work at home and abroad. It would also significantly improve the motivation to study for many students. Mr President! The government must therefore do what it can to ensure that language testing provides a broad, diverse and comprehensive picture of the language learning needs of schoolchildren and students throughout the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u395	Mr President! The draft law now before us is very much to be welcomed. Although I consider it important to distinguish between universities of applied sciences and universities and the preservation of the dual model, there are many support services that can be well combined. Language services, for example, are an example of the fact that higher education units operating in the same localities can make very good use of common resources, and, as the proposal states, this will also improve the opportunities for students to learn languages, especially in the case of less common languages. Thank you to the government for this good proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u396	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u397	Mr President! This proposal brings together the current National Board of Education and the Centre for International Mobility and Cooperation (Cimo) as a joint agency. The proposal is certainly well-founded, and it can be thought that synergies can be found here. However, it is important to ensure that in this new agency, in particular, Cimo's strong expertise is well exploited, as Cimo is an important international player related to our students and, in part, to research, which is well known in the world. In fact, they themselves are concerned about how their views are within this new integrated agency, and then there is a human concern, which often emerges when these agencies are combined, that what is the new name? When Cimo is well known as a brand in the world, it is certainly worth considering maintaining it, even though it is part of the Finnish National Board of Education now, and especially in that international world it is a much more appropriate, better and easily identifiable name than any English translation of the Finnish National Board of Education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u398	The 19th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u399	Mr President! The tobacco law now adopted is a step forward towards a smoke-free Finland. In particular, the restriction of balcony smoking takes a brisk step forward. Finland has been a pioneer and a leading player in tobacco policy, and it is important that we continue to pursue reforms in this area and continue to strive to remain at the top of the world. I would therefore like to give a short list to the Minister for Social Affairs and Health, which should at least be the next steps to be taken to prepare the reforms. First of all, the future legislation on the restriction of balcony smoking is very bureaucratic. Once the general meeting in the building company has decided to apply for it, the municipality must prescribe it if the smoke can pass to another balcony or apartment. This role of the municipality in this is pointless. I look forward to the presentation that the housing company will decide whether or not to smoke in its balconies. Secondly, brand-free cigarette packets have been introduced in the most advanced countries, and this is what I expect in Finland. When we know that young people are the ones who start smoking, I believe that brands have their own meaning in attractiveness and that when you move on to completely insignificant, i.e. brand-free packs, you would be able to move forward. Thirdly, I expect new free zones to be set aside for the benefit of us non-smokers. All in all, when progress has been made in general, such as bans on smoking in the workplace or in restaurants or elsewhere, these have always been criticised and horrified by the consequences and, after that, it has been said almost unanimously that these have been sensible reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u400	The 28th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u401	Mr President! This bill proposes a temporary amendment of the Order Act so that private security services can be used in reception centres. I am sure it is all right to think about what police resources are being used for, because we know that there has often been a need to call the police in reception centres, and it may be that there would also be lighter means, especially since we have just heard here, in the context of the Internal Security Report, how tight the police are at the moment. However here, now that we are proposing this kind of transfer of public authority to a private body, it is worth paying attention to it and think carefully about those conditions. It is known that if you consider such security services compared to police training, you talk about a completely different level of education, both in length and content. And especially in this case, if we consider using these private security services in reception centres, we should consider whether this training could include some form of multiculturalism, a meeting of different cultures, including how to deal with people with poor language skills or with whom there is no common language. These must be the kind of things that should be borne in mind in this further consideration of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u402	The 29th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u403	Mr President! In addition to public libraries, this extension of lending fees to libraries of universities and universities of applied sciences is very much to be welcomed and, in fact, a proposal that has long been run in Parliament, and all parliamentary parties in 2015 made a joint statement on this. Some 70 million books and 4 million recordings are quoted annually from public libraries. University libraries, which would now be covered by this lending fee, make 16 million loans annually. These university libraries are cited in particular, so that the role of authors in this bill would be improved by better access to loan compensation. After all, the authors' income is partly made up of these copyright and quotation compensations, and this is how this proposal will increase the equality of authors. However, the concern in this proposal is that it has not been envisaged to increase resources for these lending compensation appropriations. Of course, now that the same amount is to be distributed by a larger number of authors, this means that the sums per quote and per author will then be reduced, and that is a cause for concern. It is therefore necessary to increase the amount of lending compensation, and there has already been the prospect of raising these lending compensations to the Nordic level in the current law, and now that we are expanding this library group, which is involved, this increase in the amount of lending compensation becomes even more important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u404	The 30th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report of the Audit Committee TrVM 2/2016 vp. The hearing was suspended at the plenary session on Friday 17 June 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u405	Mr President! Indeed, this report was briefly discussed last week. Maybe this should have been a better time to deal with it, but I saw it this time. Last year Parliament called for the Government report to be developed in such a way as to better explain that it would not only describe different activities but would better reflect the effectiveness of different policies. Especially now that we have the government's strategic programme and key projects, it would be natural for the report to be further developed in this direction. Progress has been made, but I do not think it is far enough. There are a number of points in the report that have been taken up. I would just like to raise one point: in the context of the Savonlinna School of Teachers, the role of the sub-regions was also highlighted in the fact that many activities may affect — even the closure of activities may affect — the local cities, their potential for development. On the other hand, they are also a challenge when people flock to the capital region more and more. I also believe that it is important to monitor the development of regional cities in particular and to report on this to Parliament, along with other important policies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u406	Mr President! With regard to this report by the Audit Committee, of course, it was unfortunate that on Friday, when there was a great deal of desire to speak, the sitting was suspended when a large committee met, and now at 1 a.m. it is perhaps unreasonable to expect that there would be very great desire to speak here any longer to have this report on call. I myself am a member of the Audit Committee and therefore a few words about this. It has been a pleasure to work in the Audit Committee, and we have been able to forget about the Government of the Policy of the Day—Opposition, focus on these common issues and think about how well Parliament has implemented the decisions it itself has taken and decided. This audit report, as Mr Ala-Nissilä, the vice-chairman of the committee, pointed out, highlighted the role of the regional cities, which actually came up when we looked at how Savonlinna's teacher training has spent the extra money that the previous government had given in order to maintain its education in the local area. It is true that we have had a lot of such concentration policy and thinning of various networks of activities, often in the same city, usually in the region, closed down and closed down a section, and in fact no one has coordinated the question of whether it always hits the same city, but quite often it has been, and that is why the Committee of Auditors considered it important that these towns and the development of their vitality and opportunities be taken into more careful consideration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u407	The 31st item will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Audit Committee TrVM 3/2016 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-21-ps-73.u408	Mr President! As vice-chairman of the committee, I shall briefly present our report when, as a member of our chairman's commission, he has considered himself to be an obstacle. The report therefore deals with Parliament's audit and it has been found that the audit report on the financial statements, the annual report, the accounting and the administration of Parliament's auditors has been drawn up in accordance with good auditing practice. Furthermore, these parliamentary appropriations, the entire budget and the building budget have been mentioned here. Of course, the activities of Parliament itself are the most important thing. In 2015, operating expenses totalled 97.7 million. The Audit Committee essentially took two positions. We considered it important that adequate attention be paid to parliamentary activities and the resources required by them and that the resources already deployed can be used effectively, that is to say effectively. In this respect, the committee raised the issue of travel appropriations for committees. According to the survey, 186,000 or 27 per cent of travel appropriations were not used in 2015. In previous years, the amount of travel appropriations was also unused between 25 and 30 %, varying from one year to another. Today, Parliament follows a procedure whereby each committee is given a fixed maximum amount per year in the operating plan to carry out the journeys, depending on the type of journey to be carried out in that year. It is common that this available financial allocation is sufficient only for some of the members of the committee to take part in the trip, and of course the benefits will then be mainly for these representatives. We believe that such a procedure is not balanced from the point of view of the work of the representatives. As an example, when parliamentary work is becoming increasingly international, the members of the committee may lack essential information, for example, on how decisions have been taken in one country to restore the economy. This information is not available to those who do not take part in the journeys. The committee does not consider that this status quo is satisfactory and considers that the committee's budgeting procedure for foreign travel should be examined. In the previous year, the Audit Committee's report drew attention to the functioning of the parliamentary assistant system and considered it justified an evaluation of the effectiveness of the assistance system. The committee still considers it necessary to carry out such an assessment and considers that the evaluation should also include the development needs of the assistants' pay system. As a whole, it is stated that good governance has been observed here in Parliament and that the information contained in this report and the financial statements is incontrovertible.
