ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Transport and Communications must deliver an opinion. Minister Vehviläinen will introduce you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u2	Mr President! In this referral debate, we are now discussing the law on support services for electronic services, and I consider this particularly important when you know that, for several years, Finland has wanted to create a common national service channel. The key objective is to enable a national service architecture programme with a wide use of built services throughout society. The services developed in the national service architecture programme are presented as statutory tasks and centrally funded by the Population Register Centre. The proposal supports: Thus, Finland is now taking a big leap towards a common digital infrastructure — one might say: the digital road network. The digital services that citizens need will be brought together in a service perspective where you can interact with different parties through one identification. The development version of the service view beta.suomi.fi is already being tested by users. An e-service account enables a secure communication channel to inform, for example, about customer decisions. In turn, dealing on behalf of one makes it easier to use e-services, for example, for children's guardians and for those who shop on behalf of their customers. Create a framework for one-stop-shop user-driven digital services, which will increase efficiency and productivity. The seamless flow of information between different service providers through open interfaces will be facilitated. For the authorities of the state and municipalities, the law includes an obligation to use services in all the production of electronic services. Legislation on national service architectures makes it unique that common services are not only for the internal use of public administrations or for the provision of public services. Genuine added value for the customer is sought from the fact that, regardless of the operator, the service is provided through integrated support services and based on the same information. The law has chosen a policy enabling companies to use the infrastructure for digital services to be built. As far as possible, support services are also available to the non-public sector. A service channel, a service information reserve, a service outlook and a service with access to information could also be used by the private sector. Mr President! This bill on support services for e-services therefore deals in particular with five issues: firstly, identification, secondly, the national gateway, thirdly, the national service information reserve, fourthly, access roles and powers, and fifthly, the digital view of one-stop shop. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say once again that there is a great deal of concern here in this Chamber that there is not everyone who has access to this electronic identification if, although there are no BICs, we are currently finding a solution which is related to the adoption of another law. In other words, there is currently a consultation on the national implementation of the so-called Basic Banking Services Directive, i.e. an amendment to the law on credit institutions, and in this context it is intended that banks should be obliged to provide all bank customers with universal banking credentials. This could solve the problem if you have lost your credit information or for some other reason do not have the possibility of electronic authentication. This gives us a chance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u3	Mr President! The proposal therefore provides for a law on shared management support services for e-services. In addition, provision would be made for the obligation of administrative operators and the right to use common services. The consolidation of the regulation of shared e-services by administrations in a single law and the centralised financing of services are considered to have a significant impact on administrative costs. The Ministry of Finance estimates that the public administration has approximately 1500 contracts for electronic identification. By centralising the agreements A considerable amount of administrative working time will therefore be saved to the Population Register Centre, which is related, among other things, to the maintenance and billing of contracts. From the point of view of companies, the proposal would also streamline the licensing and service processes of companies and reduce their administrative burden. Article 6 of the Services Directive provides for one-stop shops, which are online services for businesses and portals for e-services. The Directive requires that all procedures and formalities relating to the taking-up and pursuit of a business should be accessible electronically through one-stop shops throughout the EU. This requires, among other things, the possibility of cross-border e-identification and e-services for the founders of a business. The services provided by the public administration under the proposed law will provide new business opportunities for companies. These opportunities are open and accessible to all companies and communities on an equal basis. According to the proposal, the construction of a service platform is intended to contribute to the emergence of inter-branch e-service markets across the cross-reciprocal borders as part of the EU's electronic internal market. It has been stated in the explanatory memorandum that the proposal is not expected to have an impact on the level playing field between private and public business. Nevertheless, the question arises as to the impact on the business activities of companies providing various directory and contact information services. Mr President! The goal is that at the end of 2017, the service view will provide an identified customer with a new way of finding services and obtaining information. The service view highlights the possibilities for electronic services and promotes the use of electronic service channels and the increase of self-service. Electronic services are already widely available and used. However, there are still many people who do not have access to electronic services or do not have authentication tools. According to a study by the Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority, banking customers, among others, are divided into users of digital and traditional services. The study shows that consumers have unequal access to banking because of different backgrounds and life situations. Almost a tenth of consumers do not use an online bank at all. 9 %, i.e. around 400,000 people relative to the total population, did not have online banking credentials. These include, in particular, elderly pensioners, the unemployed, low-skilled young people and low-income people. The identification tool is essential for the effective availability of services and network access. One obstacle to obtaining an identification tool from private service providers is the failure marking. According to Finnish Customer Information, at the turn of September to October 2015, the default marking was 370,000 people. A means of identification is necessary for the exercise of self-determination, and dealing on behalf is not the right solution when a person is himself or herself in a position to act. Mr President! Citizens should also be guaranteed access to public services that do not use e-services because of their skills, language skills or some other reason. The administration client should have access to more than e-services and should also receive personal services if necessary. Mr President! This was such a large package that a lot of details still need to be examined, but I am sure that we will find out at committee meetings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u4	Mr President! This government proposal is an excellent one, you could say, a significant step, a real e-world, a journey towards a one-stop shop principle, which will get rid of the administrative silos. It could be said that bureaucracy is being brought down, that administrative costs are being kept under control. In the future, services can be available to our citizens every single day, wherever, whenever and on any device they want.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u5	Madam President! The government's proposal is justified, but I would like to raise matters raised by Mr Mäkipää. Yes, there is concern about people who are not able to use electronic devices or, for example, bank IDs. In particular, the problem has proved to be how to teach people who do not control the use of bank accounts, for example, because there is obviously no teaching through personal accounts. There may also be reason to throw that ball to banks: at what point is their situation so that they can advise, teach and train, for example, elderly people, many of whom do not have electronic identification devices. So the focus is on man when we develop these programs and even this reform, and that must be remembered that we are all individuals, others need more advice and help, and not everyone has access to the equipment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u6	Madam President! In the digitalisation process in Finland, the public sector in particular has made heavy and costly mistakes along the way. This is a great process. This is an important part of the digitalisation process agreed in the Government Programme, and it is extremely important that all measures to bring together the state-aligned information systems take place in such a way that they run on citizens' terms and that as many people as possible can access online services. But then people who are generally unable to use the Internet because of their age will be taken into account separately. Last week I came across a case where the tax office had not accepted the alvi from the old forest owner when it was done in a traditional way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u7	Madam President! It is very important that these regulations, which regulate these public electronic services, now come under one legislation. Of course, it would also be extremely important for public procurement in terms of software and IT systems to also achieve these centralisation benefits. I would have asked the Minister how these state-specific projects are going to proceed in this respect: when legislation is brought together, how can these procurements be made more efficient and thus save large sums of money, given the huge number of these suppliers, both in the municipalities and in the state, at the moment? Representative Mr Mäkipää raised this important point that care should be taken to ensure that these services are also available to people who are unable to access the Internet for a reason or for another.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u8	Madam President! It's an excellent bill and it's in line. I'm sniveling with the government program. However, I would also like to point out here that, when new service routes are built on a digital basis, it is precisely on the basis that the service is safe and that such data leaks cannot be generated and hackers cannot get in the way, that there must be an absolute objective, but it must be equally important that we build a broadband network in this country, all over the country. This will make the whole system different in this country if some of the population is able to use state-of-the-art services in an excellent environment but, on the other hand, there are areas where high-speed broadband is not playing at all. In my municipality of Ilomants, it is already a good idea when the fibre network has been completed, but it is up to the government to ensure that in areas where fibre networks and high-speed broadband connections are not available on market terms, the government must act actively to ensure that the whole country is covered by this rapid service.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u9	Madam President! This is a good proposal, and it can and must be commended to Mr Vehviläinen, but there is no reason why we should have done so long ago, because we are very late here. This should of course have happened a long time ago — and this is not about this government, it is about many governments in the past. For example, if we look at what has happened in other countries, we are far behind. In Estonia, for example, all electronic services, such as prescriptions for medicines and voting, work through a communication channel called X-Road. And yes, the goal is now and it must be that in the future, all functions of the Tax Administration, Kela, its own municipality, province and state will succeed through one clear whole, with full support for the Minister and the Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u10	Mr President! First of all, to Mr Juvonen: it is absolutely essential that these channels of service are built on people's terms. I think that an excellent example here is that these service guides are produced on a life-by-life basis. Furthermore, we must continue to ensure that we have those who are not used to using technical tools, including these traditional telephones and customer service points. To Mr Heinos, better than ever, and to say that at this stage we already have mature technology that we can then go on to implement and implement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u11	Madam Speaker! It must also be stated in the parliamentary minutes that it is now important not to be able to reach out to these old ones or to see threats here, but really opportunities. One of the central strategic areas of the Government Programme is new ways of working, where one of the key is digitalisation. It is, of course, linked to these other policies, such as the streamlining of standards, the streamlining of authorisation procedures, which in many cases can take place digitally in the future, when we have this common basis here. That forces the Minister to take forward this central project of the Government Programme. We're on our way back to Estonia and the others, but we'll catch up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u12	Madam President! The report is mainly positive because the government has finally received this proposal here in Parliament. As Mr Heinonen has already said, Finland has in fact for decades been a little busy in these general public service and public administration information and digitalisation projects. We have had a very fragmented and fragmented system for a long time, which has led above all to the fact that the necessary savings have not been made, but, more importantly, the customer orientation in the service has not been managed at the level it should be, especially in the 2010s. In other words, this now enables customer-oriented services, and I hope that further work will also take into account that companies' services will often also be able to participate in it to complement all these public activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u13	All the responses requested have been listed and we will now go through them in order here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u14	Mr President! Representative St. John brought up some important things. There's almost 400,000 people in trouble. Payment disruptions are constantly increasing and will not be reduced by hampering citizens' ability and willingness to pay their bills. The granting of bank IDs is not the granting of credit but the possibility of electronic access to services belonging to all citizens. Minister As regards electronic identification, the Vehviläinen mentioned the issue of bank IDs to all citizens in the future, and I would like to ask how long this will be possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u15	Madam President! During March alone, I missed a prescription because the pharmacy was unable to connect to the central system that handles electronic recipes. I missed the child's allowance because the ATM couldn't get in touch with the bank. I missed a train trip because the train tickets could not be sold at the ticket office when the systems were skewed. I don't even mention Parliament's information systems here. I find it terribly important that this reform should be carried out, it is necessary. But these questions about security of supply, security, functionality and its ability to adapt are serious issues, and this proposal hardly deals with them. I hope that they will continue to be well taken into account in the preparatory work itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u16	Madam President! I have to say at this point that of course it will be better late, if not then. We really are behind. This security of supply is a very important issue that has been raised here. But what I am most concerned about is that we have a large number of people who are unable to use these because they do not have the tools to identify themselves. We have people who have lost their credit records. They can't get a debit card, they can't access the services through the debit card system. Very often they have the tools to do so, but they cannot do so. This is something to which I would like to see some kind of improvement. For example, banks today do not even give them a wall banking card. It is quite a shortcoming in this information society that even money cannot be withdrawn from the wall. Even that much must be trusted and helped upward from the plight that they have in many cases been involuntarily and unadulterated, that is, from the credit register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u17	Finally, representatives Räsänen and Krista Kiuru and then the Minister have the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u18	Mr President! This proposal is indeed a positive one, and the Minister's creative idea or suggestion of how this electronic identification can be managed through these banking credentials for all in the future is a good thing. However, in this context, we have to say that we are far behind our neighbouring country, Estonia. In retrospect, we too should have long ago introduced this compulsory electronic identity card, which is in use in Estonia and which has made it possible in practice to achieve a huge digital development in Estonia, both for companies and for individuals, but we must press ahead with this now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u19	Mr President! I myself also attach great importance to promoting digitalisation, and here is a good bottom-up solution. I congratulate the Minister on the fact that this open society was involved and not limited to state institutions. But I wonder when it would now be important to know where is the common portal for the whole of Finland in which all our services are assembled. When this matter was being prepared during the last term of government, it was, of course, difficult, I admit. It took two years alone for us to get this kind of Finnish X-Road started, as Mr Heinonen has already described. But it has now taken a lot longer: in October we had to be ready for this X-Road in Finland, and now we are still not seeing the end of April. In that regard, I would be interested to know where the concrete measures are, that is, Minister, where the X-Road is, when it was almost ready last season, where it is now?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u20	Then Minister Vehviläinen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u21	Mr President! Representative Krista Kiuru: We wanted to make a better platform than had been introduced in Estonia and it was expected. Now, at the beginning of last December, this beta.suomi.fi came for experimental use. It's on trial. It's not too late. Then there are two points of view: First of all, to this identification. This is where Mr Elomaa asked for this timetable, and that is very good. I repeat, if everyone did not hear it in my presentation, what I said: when this has really been a big problem, so many people have not had the opportunity to get these bank credentials for a reason and another — which we all know — and they have not had the opportunity to identify themselves, then now there is a bill on the table that allows every banker to have access to such universal banking credentials. It is in the consultation process, and I believe that the government proposal should come before Parliament this spring and therefore this matter should be in order next autumn. I think this is a good thing if we can resolve this in a few months. Then I will say a little about it when I used to compare very much how Estonians do everything so much faster, and I have also discussed this with them. Admittedly, they have been faster, faster and quicker in such a way that they have not always demanded the success of 110 percent of themselves, as we usually call for. If we tried what year we now had the municipal elections, 2008, electronic voting, and it failed, then since then we have been afraid to say anything about electronic voting. It tells us a little about our Lutheran grip that we are always very strong in that everything has to be trained so that there will be no failure. We all know there's vulnerability and not everything is always a game. That is, of course, what we need to pay attention to, as has been said here. But then I strongly deny that we would do something worse than in Estonia. If I now raise what this system of ours makes possible, this will make it possible to do business on behalf of another person, and it is not in Estonia. I think this is an important reform that one can do business for the other. Then I will take this one more time — Mr Räsänen took this — why we did not have that state-controlled system so that a separate card was taken. It's old technology, yes. You can't take care of it on a mobile or a valid basis. We are now making this identification solution in such a way as to make it possible to make a mobile phone or to make it available from the iPad, and we will make these electronic services available to people more widely.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u22	Next, on the list of speakers, Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u23	Madam President! We cannot criticise this government on this issue. I was wondering a little bit about these speeches. This government has taken swift action and perhaps those reviews should be directed at previous governments — whether it is the previous government or the previous one. Perhaps somewhere there should have been those decisions that we would have been in the vantage point. There has been a good debate on this issue, and I have already said that it is better late than never, and thanks to Mr Vehviläinen for the fact that we have really done so now, and also that we are looking for an even better model than those that have been in use in other countries today. When operating, e-services enable the customer’s self-service regardless of time and place, and this is important in this type of country where we live, where there are long distances, and the fact is that not all services are available now and in the future in every urban area, let alone in every village, and the distances may be long. However, it must be remembered and taken into account that not everyone always has their own equipment and connections, and so the organisation of e-services also involves enabling the use of e-services, for example by organising different customer terminals, such as libraries, joint service points, shopping centres and others, and we already have good examples of these in Finland. As a big issue, e-services also involve online identification of customers, and that is what we have been discussing here today. However, as far as identification is concerned, it is always necessary to look closely and assess precisely why identification is needed and whether it is necessary. The so-called general information must continue to be readable without any identification of the service being required. In the development of e-services, we need to look at the whole process of business and reform must start from the whole, as is the case with this proposal. The best outcome of development is achieved by genuinely taking into account the needs of the person, in this case the customer. This government proposal examines the situation in different countries, for example from Denmark, where a political decision was taken in 2007 on the priority of the digital channel in public services. This triggered a wider development of e-services and, according to the Danish authorities, 85% of the Danish population over the age of 15 have used e-services of the administration over the past year. Estonia has also been present in the debate, where the electrification of public administration is governed by the Government's e-Estonia Committee set up in 2014, and this committee in Estonia is actually headed by the Prime Minister. The British Prime Minister has also worked on this. There, the Prime Minister's Office is responsible for electronic management. These well illustrate the seriousness and seriousness of the take-up of this e-service function in different countries. In the Netherlands, too, the objective is for businesses and citizens to be able to deal electronically with the administration by 2017, which means that e-service is a priority. Here are some examples of how e-services operate in different countries. In that fast-paced debate I referred to Estonia, where all electronic services, such as prescriptions for medicines and voting, operate through a communication channel called X-Road. And in 2013 we too, with a slight criticism of the current government, which has now only sat down for a year, stated that the same solution will be introduced in Finland under the name of the gateway. The Ministry of Finance, which leads the project, intends to bring the services of the state and municipalities into the service channel, although it was forced to do so in 2013, which means that it is better to go there rather than to Minister Vehviläinen, who has done a good and thorough job here. What is important and desirable is that in the future, the services of the tax authority, Kela, the province, the municipality, the patient information archive, the electronic prescription system must be found in this whole, so that through one website Finns can easily find these services. Today, the provision of e-services is very confusing, as has been pointed out here. The Tax Administration and Kela can already handle many things from start to finish online. On the health side, an electronic prescription and a patient information archive are in use and will be comprehensive in the near future, but in different municipalities the electronic services are very diverse. In fact, in quite a few municipalities, e-service still means that you can print out a form online, but the application must be submitted physically, i.e. it cannot be done electronically. This is something other than the 2010s.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u24	Madam President! I am a little surprised that so few representatives are here today when there is perhaps one of the most important reforms of this parliamentary term in the debate on referrals. This reform, if successful, will promote competition. It will create cost-effectiveness throughout Finland. They're putting it in motion today. It will be analysed in the committees, will be consulted by experts, will be dealt with here, and certainly there will be some shortcomings, which will then be supplemented by future laws. All in all, however, congratulations on the fact that this group of the Ministry of Finance, which was set up almost two years ago for this work, has completed this proposal and, as has already been said here, Mr Ala-Nissilän should not now pay the greatest attention to some of the shortcomings which may have remained here. A few key, good things about this: First of all, there is the creation of a national gateway towards which all other digital services are now being directed. There's gonna be a one-stop service system. There will be a system of clear accountability, with both producer and money under the same control, a clear digital architecture for which the private sector can provide additional services, and a national income register will be created which will allow, among other things, the introduction of the Christian Democrats' basic income model — which, by the way, is the only effective model, since it will free all other traps. Mr President! The purpose of this Government proposal is to bring together all existing and new provisions on shared management e-services into the proposed law, to provide more detailed provisions on the functionality of services, the responsibilities and tasks of service providers and the processing of personal data and other data for the provision of services. In addition, the obligation and the right to use common services would be laid down, which is also excellent. In time, my home town of Espoo was accused of being excluded from this Apotti project, but one of the main reasons was that we knew that such a national bus model was coming and it makes more sense to build something like that, then put the money into that work, so that we are involved in this, which will now be the biggest success factor in Finland in the 21st century. I also considered that decision to be sensible and I am in favour of it. The projects of the Ministry of Finance's programme were therefore the gateway, the prospects for the services of the citizen, the entrepreneur and the authority, the model of identification, and the management of roles and powers. The end date for the programme 2017 has been set, so the minister should almost be defeated here because we are early and this proposal is coming to us at this early stage in the parliamentary term. The programme and its projects are owned by the Ministry of Finance. Operational implementation is envisaged at the Population Register Centre. The idea behind all of this is actually a breakthrough in digitalisation in Finnish society. I also very much welcome what the Minister has just pointed out in his reply that this model, when it is completed, is better than the Estonian model. The Estonian model has been studied and considered and has been visited by some kind of group to look at and get to know. The doctors have been here to show us, and this is a better version. This is the way it should be, and that is something that Finland will certainly be able to do. It would be a good thing if these map services could still be connected to this in some way, so that it would also facilitate its use. Perhaps one more thing is that as far as these identification services and their security risks are concerned, I hope that the committee will then pay particular attention to this, because these security risks are no small matter. When everything comes together, as it were, their significance becomes even greater. All in all, thank you for this good preparation for the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u25	Mr President! I did not get to know this bill very thoroughly, and that is why I am not in a position to comment very deeply on this bill, but the proposal's objectives are excellent. However, I express my concern that not all digital services have traditionally been developed in Finland on a customer-oriented basis, but technology in particular. Although the general explanatory statement of the bill states on page 15 that customer orientation has been central, it has not been so for the citizens at least. So there is a lot of feedback about how difficult it is to use electronic services and how difficult it is to go there and how difficult it is to operate there. Digital services are very rarely accessible, and I particularly thank you for that in this bill that this digital accessibility has been taken into account here and that experts on accessibility have also been involved in the preparation. I hope that this accessibility will continue to be taken care of just as well. We have such a situation that much is said about accessibility, but very rarely is it remembered that accessibility means the accessibility of all senses, and, for example, in the development of digitality, this issue is often left in the position of the child. Mr President! Electronic services and digitalisation are an excellent and worthwhile issue that must be systematically developed and promoted in our society. But it is often forgotten that e-services cannot always replace personal service, guidance and advice. Yesterday, in this Chamber, we talked about the management of unemployment and employment measures, and now, for example, the offices have increased e-services considerably, and this has also meant reducing human resources. As a result, even young people, who have just graduated, may not be able to benefit from personal assistance and support. They may have to wait several months for the expert or official to reach them. In my opinion, young people are even left behind because young people do not have the skills and experience of the labour market and cannot work without guidance in the labour market or as job seekers online, even though they have excellent technical skills and otherwise the ability to operate in the digital world. In these situations, e-services alone are not enough, and this should always be borne in mind here, alongside the development of e-services. We have many other groups of citizens who should not be left to e-services alone, and there is a very critical aspect to this issue, among other things, in the annual report of the State Audit Office last year, that we should not completely exclude people from services. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u26	Mr President! This government proposal is more than welcome. Unfortunately, the whole range of e-services in the public administration will be taken over and a common service channel will be created for e-services only now and not years ago, because, as Minister Vehviläinen said, the fragmentation and siloness of these support services have hindered and slowed down the development of e-services. From the outset, every public electronic service has had to be built with known results. So if the government deserves to be commended for anything, then this proposal has progressed rapidly under this government. — In the past, there was a suspicion that we could not even get the X-Road service route we received from Estonia free of charge to operate here in Finland at all. But it must be said from the opposition that this proposal could be more courageous. In practice, this organises existing support services as a single entity, but otherwise does not reform or digitise the production structures and processes of our public services. I trust and hope that this proposal will only be the first step towards a broader reform, building the foundations for radical digitisation of public services. The need for a more comprehensive change is well reflected in the international development of the sector described in the general explanatory memorandum of the proposal. The leading countries have long had the courage to move the digitalisation of public administration forward much more courageously than Finland, even more ruggedly. In Denmark, for example, e-services have been a priority for years and all Danes must have a digital postal address. Both citizens and businesses are legally obliged to deal with the authorities only electronically. For example, for health reasons, only 10% of Danes have been granted exemption, which still gives them the right to deal with the authorities through paper mail. Similarly, in Estonia, e-identification was successfully introduced more than a decade ago, unlike in Finland, which originally developed the technology of the old Estonian HST card — I was one of the test card users myself in Otaniemi in the 1980s. Estonia succeeded because the electronic identity card was made mandatory for all For persons residing permanently in Estonia, at the same time as all authorities were obliged to use an electronic ID card as the primary means of identification and signature. In practice, traditional methods of identification based on paper documents and signature on paper quickly disappeared in Estonia. The cost of service production decreased while citizens' service experiences improved. Yet I can well understand the lack of courage of the government. I can only imagine what the whole of Finland would get if the government dared to suggest something as radical in Finland, not to mention us parliamentarians. Mr President! There has been a lot of concern here today about Finns who do not have electronic banking credentials, for example. It is quite true that until now, bank authentication services have also been critical of public services. However, this may not be the case for much longer. Firstly, the identification services used by banks in Finland are old and their usability and security have not been at the same level for years as national identification, for example, in Estonia. In addition, the entire banking sector is going through a violent digital break-in. There is already an international consumer network bank in Finland, which has no branches at all, but all transactions are online and algorithms that produce most of the services. Since such online banks do not have real estate and staff costs and are easily scaled across Europe, their accounts and loans have much better interest rates than traditional banks. In other words, there is no point in basing the identification of public services on traditional banks, at least not in the long term. Mr President! Another difference that emerges in international comparisons between Finland and the pioneer countries is the management of digitalisation. In Finland, no one or nothing directs the development of e-services and information management in public administration, let alone the development of the national information society. Digitalisation does not have an owner in Finland who has sufficient power to direct and tighten development across administrative boundaries. In the UK, for example, the development of eGovernment is directly the responsibility of the Prime Minister's Office. This enabled, for example, the rapid opening up of the British government's information resources to the general public. Only 18 months were allocated to ministries and government institutions, 18 months are allowed. Later, when it was decided to open public data reserves in Finland, the traditional Finnish cry stream started with additional funds and transition periods. Mr President! Of course, the development of electronic services and administration is also a matter of resources. For example, in South Korea, established in 1987, the national The Agency has only 430 researchers on its payroll. Something about South Korea's attitude is also reported by the law that will come into force this summer, which will repeal a number of laws that may hinder the development and testing of new digital services in the Haundae district of Busan, with a population of 423,000. If the government is considering setting up a similar test area in Finland, I can volunteer for the City of Espoo, even though we do not have as many residents.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u27	Madam President! It is true that digitalisation is the word of the day, and this government proposal is moving forward quickly, and it is intended to speed things up. Electronic services are quick, and that is how things work out well. The Estonian model has also been mentioned here and compared with it. I think it is good that we are also creating our own model and not always looking for that model elsewhere, and in particular we are not developing similar models, but we are being brave and we are also starting out with the courage to make our own decisions. It is important that this performance is also carried forward customer-oriented and that attention is paid to people who may not be so easily integrated into this electronic world but may need more of that advice and guidance. Not all people have computers and mobile devices for that purpose, and libraries are one place where people go to do their business. By the way, have we ever looked into how much electronic stuff is being done in libraries, how much these things are being done there? I know there are a lot of young people and people who have neither the chance nor the means to buy equipment. The performance is good and worthwhile, and it is indeed customer-oriented to take forward and remember that the person is the one who uses the machine, and everything else will then follow, and that when the Internet is broken up somewhere in the middle of the forest, for example, then the connection will be broken and the use of the electronic world will be left behind.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u28	Madam President! I think that the government proposal now before us is very good and fits in perfectly with our time. The fact that Finland has clearly been left behind in these services for electronic data processing and services compared to, for example, the Estonia mentioned by Mr Jyrki plant, our southern neighbour, is a sad thing, but of course this does not mean that, in this situation, we should stay and weep for our hard destiny, but we must not hesitate to go down the road where these electronic services and electronic services are possible throughout the country. It is important that everything is brought together in a single law — how this platform for this service, for electronic services, is built — so that this phenomenon of Korea, mentioned by the representative of the plant, does not come together. It has been wisely done there, when the law prohibits all other such activities, that we can build a common platform. This is the way in which public services will be organised in the future so that they are under one platform and the availability will be built on the same system that is wisdom. At the same time, we will probably be able to guarantee this security. We must remember that the banks have this current system of protection, with its indicators and other means of identification, but apparently this too is old-fashioned, so that we can build even better, safe systems in this country. What is important, however, is that the electronic service is organised so well that we can really benefit from it. One of the important elements of the Government Programme is this digitalisation, which is something to be welcomed with joy. But even digitalisation will not play if we do not get the systems done, so that, for example, tax issues and many other things can be handled online. For example, the current social welfare reform, the reform of social welfare and health services — all such services will be transferred to the network in the future. The good old example is that when a person goes to a health center and gets an X-ray, it can be sent to the other side of the earth in an instant, if necessary, to a specialist to check whether there is anything special about the picture, and then the patient gets a quick service and help for his illness. So, in this sense too, this government proposal is very good and worthy of support. Hopefully, there is now enough wisdom and reason in Finland for us to be able to bring together these sprawling different services and to have one common and functional system that will enable the services of Finns to be put in order. I believe that it is also an essential part of this – even though this law probably does not provide for it, but it is an industrial policy again, and I hope that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, also towards the European Union, will have such decisions and a budget reserve – that rapid broadband connections can be built throughout Finland. According to our Constitution, citizens are equal to each other, and we must try to organise services in such a way that they operate here in Helsinki but equally in Utsjoki or somewhere in Nuorgam or even in Pello and Ilomants, so that this network of ours does not limit the use of the new, fine services that create it. After all, now we really have Finland divided into two parts: some regions play excellent services and others do not at all. Unfortunately, we are in the background here, and I very much hope that the Ministry of the Economy will be active in this matter and, above all, that Parliament will take the bull out of the horns here and book money for the budget and for the next additional budgets, and the next government, which will then begin in due course, will take this issue seriously. If we do not get fast broadband connections to work in this country, it will in practice mean that we will also be sidelined from the market, and even the objective of increasing exports, by which Finland will be lifted out of this recession, will not be achieved if we do not get these information network systems in order in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u29	Madam President! Although it is said that with a stick in the eye the one who remembers the past, and when it is said here that Finland is lagging behind in IT technology specifically in public administration, one important part of it is that the state computer centre was driven down and its own expertise disappeared, and since then it has been dependent on market forces. We've moved on to a consulting democracy that's been able to cash in. This is a challenge today, too, that this will not happen when we talk strongly about digitalisation in the Government Programme too. Nor is the good news what has been reported today that the working climate of the Ministry of Finance's YulkICT department has become inflamed and clear signs of crisis have been measured in the Labour Satisfaction Barometer. All of this makes it difficult to work with a goal. Madam President, many speakers have referred to Estonia. Estonia is a good example, but it is not necessarily an absolute model, as has rightly been said here. Estonia started to build the system from scratch in the year zero. However, we have history and experience, but unfortunately we have negative experiences. Now we really need to get a new posture. I wish the Minister every success in this work. Now I feel like I have the right grip.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u30	Mr President! With regard to this national gateway, I would like to highlight a few websites that are closely linked to it. So this service channel itself is a communication concept that acts as a platform for the provision of secure and standardised information, and can be used by all those who have joined it, i.e. by linking the citizen and the public digital service. The main themes are, of course, available on the digisuomi.fi website, where there are nine main themes that have been asked of the citizens. They've been published last fall. These include the fact that the service has a owner, the use of open information and the opening of information, the use of existing information and the use of existing services, quick benefits for the customer. Services should be easy to use and customer-oriented and focus primarily on electronic services. Then I would like to highlight a few other websites where this national service channel is being handled:confluence.csc.fi — it is a development site, there is all documentation — then this esuomi.fi site,and this service bus channel,and this website,beta stage,onbeta.suomi.fi. On these four sites you will find the main themes for this entire national service channel, and these will give the citizen and also the representative of Parliament all the information they can about the state of affairs and where they are going.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u31	Madam President! It was a pleasure listening to Mr Plant's speech. In concrete terms, it dealt with all the problems involved in this situation. Perhaps now, however, it will make it a little easier to sprinkle this ash on when assessing American systems where the cheque is a well-known means of payment and about a hundred jet aircraft are transferred to a clearing centre where banks exchange checks with each other — yet it is the leading state of information technology about all in all. From this example of Estonia — Mr Kivelä here said it — when you start from zero, it is easy to build. And similarly in Finland, you can look at this patient information system: each organisation that may be involved will start part-optimizing whether to go along or to get involved and what kind of delay is taking place. At the national level, you could say that we had to go with us at the latest, but you could also say to the state's top management that failure to regulate and coordinate must have cost Finland perhaps 10 to 20 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u32	Mr President! Just now, the State Audit Office is assessing our current electronic services, and that report was not exactly flattering to read. It showed that it has become expensive and services have not been exactly what they should have been. It is therefore very welcome that this law has now come to Parliament. One of the criticisms was this siloness. I personally believe that on this platform, what is now being built, it is possible to move forward from these silod services. I wonder, for example, that we talk a lot about incentive traps and we have the tax office to find out how much your tax is going to be on these and these figures, and we have counters that can assess, for example, what kind of unemployment benefit will be on certain wage incomes, but then, when we have to find an app that tells us what happens to housing support, wages and unemployment benefits, it is no longer there. In my opinion, it should be in the interest of the State to find these cross-driving systems which would tell the customer what happens if he behaves in a certain way. Now that I know that the Minister has also been actively involved in this basic income experiment, I would hope that this development will also take place, because, although we change the laws, if people are unable to anticipate their economic consequences in their own lives, we will in a way not be able to cope with the change in legislation because old images live. But then, if you think about this customer orientation, we got praise for that in the sense that we have had these user-driven tests and others, but often only at too late. It would be essential if we could think better about who that service is being done to. It has often been assumed that digitalisation is a saving, as it were, of its agency or administrative operator or public operator in the obligation to provide services. Then the starting point has been more administrative when it should be customer-centred: What added value does the service bring to the customer? How can it serve better? You should also think about it. what the concept as a whole is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u33	Congressman Kurvinen. — Excuse me, Mr Kurvinen, it had Mr Elovaara’s name dropped off, but now he’s back on the list. — Mr Elovaara.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u34	Thank you, President-in-Office, that really happened. Mr President! The Government’s objective to move digitalisation forward is an important objective. It offers opportunities, but positive developments can also be marginalized. One such displacement is the memory disorder associated with old age. Memory disorders have also been increasingly observed in people of working age. These costs are incurred by the State, companies and customers. Banks, telecommunications companies and energy companies make use of e-invoice services, and e-invoice services bring savings to these entities. For consumers, online banks in particular play a key role. For people suffering from memory disorders, the introduction or use of services may prove difficult or impossible. The principle of equality requires both equal treatment of citizens and equal opportunities. In general, no separate charge is charged for E-invoices. On the other hand, prices vary for paper invoices. I just wanted to make this point during this debate because I am concerned that people with memory problems and elderly people who are charged a separate fee for their bills are putting themselves in an unequal position. I hope that this aspect will also be taken into account by the government and the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u35	Madam President! It is a good thing that there are 'women first' in this Chamber, too, that is a good principle. Some ideas for this debate on digitalization and e-services in society. For a change, this conversation has been quite pleasant to listen to and follow. There has been quite a common spirit here across government and opposition borders and group boundaries that we need to move forward here and that we need to make savings, create better services for people and perhaps create business opportunities for the private sector. Unfortunately, Finland, which was still one of the best information societies in the world in the 1990s, has fallen far behind in this development of information and information society. If you look at Estonia, our southern neighbours, they have had ambitions, dreams and dreams, and they have made a lot of progress, they have been flexible and creative. Let's hope we get a little bit of that, too. Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have an easy tool for identification, which most Finns have, but unfortunately not all, namely the online banking credentials of banks, which are already widely used. But the fact is that not all people get online banking credentials because of their financial situation or their debt and payment history. At this point I would like to appeal to our financial sector and to our banking sector to consider the banking practices to which online banking credentials are given. I believe that it would also be in the interests of the financial sector if we had a more convenient and clear way of accessing different electronic services and accessing different electronic lanes. We will certainly also have to consider here in Parliament that, if banks do not voluntarily provide those online banking credentials, there is a need for legislative changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u36	Madam President! Now that this e-business is hopefully taking a proper competitive leap here during this government and at the same time a social welfare reform is being carried out, which is also an extremely important reform, I would like to ask the minister present: Now that the new basis for this e-service is being created completely, one of the major problems in social and health care is that we have different patient information systems in different municipalities. Are we now creating a single system in Finland that will enable the development of digital health care as a whole to be much more effective? After all, in the United States there is good experience of this, such as the care of veterans, so that the same card can be provided with the service, whether in Hawaii or Alaska, it does not matter. Will we ever get into a system like this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u37	Mr President! First of all, it is good that this national service architecture project is being continued, and I think it is good that the government has taken this line of experimentation, which fits in very well with this picture. In these implementation options, I would also like to call for it to be very important that not all of us in our very rifted field do so themselves by implementing digital services. Now I have lost that point here, but I do not know whether we are still giving in to the possibility of producing our own services here and there, because I think that this idea, which is in this proposal, would suggest that everything is in common hands, except for these other two activities. If The Population Register Centre would then strictly ensure that service production does not fail, so it is a very important thing, because we have very many ripples of ict projects that have actually failed to achieve the right result. As I have already followed the Minister in that debate, this is not the essential part of this legislation for the citizens, but how this legislation will be implemented in practice, and for that reason we need its gateway. I think it would be important for that service channel to start coming out at the end of the day — when we ourselves hoped to turn it into a new generation of services, and that is why this Estonian concept, which we actually got free of charge last season as a result of a hard struggle, would then come out. I would like the Minister to take it as a very central issue now, because it would ensure that we have all of these in one hand. Instead of talking about bank IDs, Mr Kurvinen took account of the fact that even the identification solution cannot depend on a single card. It is no longer even possible to identify the future by mobile means, but the identification solutions of the future are very different.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u38	Mr President! I very much sympathise with the Minister for Vehviläinen, who has constantly been appealed to in this Chamber for the excellence of Estonia. The fact is, of course, that the population is one quarter of Finland's population and that these decisions have been made on a fairly clean table. But at every stage the technology is getting old and renewed, so I would like to tell you from my own experience that this interface of Estonian common services for the consumer, the user, is by no means the best or even easy to use in the world. It requires a chip card, a separate reader, a downloadable and difficult-to-use program, and I do not know whether there were any shortcomings in my university studies, but I have not been able to use these services to date. This is precisely the technological challenge that Mr Kiuru has just referred to here. After all, there was a fever in Finland and a long-term attempt to obtain such a chipped identity card, identification. I remember that EUR 10 million was burned, and in the meantime, while waiting for this sort of digital Olkiluoto 3, we went to the system of using only bank IDs. That has been quite good, however, given Mr Kurvise's reservations. There is no reason for us to take the example of solutions that have already been taken, because they are already unhelplessly obsolete, and the challenge in which we all want to support the Minister is to find solutions that are not obsolete when they come into operation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u39	Mr President! I'm sure there'll be a lot of questions along the way. But when I was browsing this performance, the article 18 reports these incidents, and it is known that there may always be interruptions in e-services, and there was talk of breaches of security and others, which, of course, prevent this support service from working properly. Well, the service provider will, of course, indicate what disruptions are involved, how long it will take and so on. But then I would ask when I did not get the right consciousness, when there may be a situation that will last for days these breaks: who will then be responsible, who will answer, and in what way? It is of course a different thing when there is this sort of emergency and then there will be disturbances, but thus normally there may be a day for two out so that these do not play as you should.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u40	Now to Minister Vehviläinen for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u41	Mr President! Thank you for this debate. There have been a lot of good points of view here, and we obviously have a very common will in this area. A few comments on the individual speeches. Firstly, Mr Laukkanen said about these map services. These map services are coming with this, but they are not produced by the Population Register Centre but in the same way that the Population Register Centre does not make the provision of online payment services. It is the State Treasury that does it for them. Then, when there were many speeches here, including Mr Mäkisalo-Roppos, about this accessibility and also about how elderly people have the opportunity, and someone else's speech came up with these memory sick people, I would like to say that a couple of weeks ago we put this in an online brainstorm specifically aimed at the elderly about what kind of digital services the elderly would like. It is precisely this usability, user-orientedness, that is what we want to find out. I think it is extremely important for us to be able to day-to-day digitalization, that it is not just some lump and some system and technology somewhere out there, but that people become you in terms of age and their own wealth, with the fact that it is a normal activity. Of course, we as parliamentarians must have in this sort of flagbearers that we also do ourselves, talking in the field of events with sufficiently simple examples, what is all this all about? Then the wise speech of the representative of the plant in many ways. I myself am thinking and I have also followed the Denmark here how it has been done, and I think that until we have this ship and this route is in order, we cannot demand people. We must get that we have this platform on offer, but in my own mind just this morning, as I prepared for this debate, I wonder whether we would have the courage to set such national and strategic goals as to what by what year our adult population would use identification and do through this or how much is being used on behalf of others, and that we would do this with more strategic goals for these things and then follow them and make a correction if they did not get ahead. To Mr Kurvise, who has just left, I would like to conclude by saying that we have a government proposal that is going to change the fact that all banks have an obligation to give each customer universal banking credentials. For Mr Hoskonen, briefly about this social solution and the establishment of the provinces, they must come to use this platform to the full. But then, as we know, there are also different provisions in the various administrative sectors concerning the transmission of information, which will also mean further legislative changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u42	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Education, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion. Minister Grahn-Laasonen will begin the debate, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u43	Mr President! The Ministry of Education and Culture has prepared the Government's proposal for the Act on customer fees for early childhood education. This bill is part of the process of transferring early childhood education from the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to the Ministry of Education and Culture, which started in 2013. The current provisions of social welfare and health care legislation on customer fees for early childhood education would be repealed, but this proposal for a new law is based on this earlier law. The payment would continue to be based on the size and income of the family and the amount of early childhood education. The types of income on which the payment is made would also remain unchanged. The Government Programme requires that municipalities' finances be corrected by increasing the payment income of early childhood education by EUR 54 million. For this reason, this proposal increases the fees for early childhood education. Early childhood education is a goal-oriented, pedagogical educational activity that is carried out in a systematic and professional way. It is a high-quality job done by highly trained education professionals all over Finland. Approximately 84% of this public service will continue to be paid with public funds. It is proposed that these increases be implemented mainly by increasing the maximum fee by 22%. Payments below the current maximum fee will also be slightly increased in order to achieve the Government’s objective of increasing the customer fee intake. According to the proposal, the highest monthly charge for early childhood education would be EUR 354 instead of EUR 290. The highest charge would therefore increase by EUR 64. However, the fee does not go up to a new maximum fee for all those who currently pay the highest fee. Currently, in families with four or larger families paying the highest fee, the payment of the youngest child would increase by between EUR 30 and EUR 60 depending on the income of the family. In the case of families with two and three persons, the payment for families who have now paid the highest fee may fall or increase by between EUR 0 and EUR 64 depending on their income. The revenue thresholds used to define payments will be raised. For smaller families, i.e. two and three, income limits have been increased proportionally more than for larger families. This affects low-income families with two and three lower contributions and improves incentives to work. This change facilitates, in particular, the payment of single parents with low incomes and two children. At the same time, we encourage single parents to accept work if possible. Payment rates are proposed to be increased from families other than two persons. The increase in the percentage of payments will have the effect of increasing the payment in euro to the lowest of the payments made by the payers and to a higher of the almost maximum of the payments made by the payers. Changes are proposed to the monthly fee for part-time early childhood education. If the child were in early childhood education up to 20 hours a week, the monthly fee could not exceed 60 per cent of the full-time early childhood education fee. A fee for full-time early childhood education could be charged for at least 35 hours of early childhood education. If the child were more than 20 hours but less than 35 hours in early childhood education, the fee should be proportionate to the child’s early childhood education period. In addition, municipalities can continue to make good use of hourly customer fees, for example, within the limits of the maximum fee laid down by law. There are also changes to sister discounts. The fee for the second child would always be up to 90 % of the full-time contribution of the first child, i.e. up to EUR 319 per month. The payment for the following children would still be 20% of the contribution for the youngest child. Mr President! Early childhood education remains free of charge for the most low-income families, i.e. families whose income is below the stated income limits, and for those who pay less than EUR 27. In addition, the law would provide that the payment of early childhood education should be withheld or reduced to the extent that the payment would jeopardise the livelihood of the service user or family or the fulfilment of the statutory maintenance obligation of the service user. Of the costs of early childhood education, the share covered by customer fee income was approximately 14 per cent in 2013. Even after the increases, customer charges account for around 16 per cent of the costs. Thus, despite payment increases, early childhood education is still a highly subsidised public service. The development of high-quality, comprehensive and effective early childhood education will continue. The Ministry of Education and Culture will start preparing a programme for the development of early childhood education together with professionals, and the Finnish National Board of Education will now for the first time prepare the criteria for early childhood education to be followed in the whole country in order to ensure the quality and equality of early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u44	Let's take a few speakers from that list before the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u45	Mr President! It is difficult to understand what kind of country the government wants to build for Finnish families. First, a package will be introduced to reduce the quality of early childhood education, which will increase the size of groups of children, which will reduce the rights of Finnish children. Now that the package to weaken early childhood education has been completed, we are being brought here with a proposal to increase the fees for day care in a totally unreasonable way. Mr President! It is impossible to understand the rationale of such a policy unless the aim is to get mothers to stay at home and reduce the number of children in early childhood education. The government keeps talking about incentive traps. Invoking them, the unemployed are being squatted and coped. But when it comes to returning to the work of ordinary mothers, there is a rather different sound in the watch. In the case of mothers, instead of breaking down incentive traps, the government is building more of them. A housewife’s society will be brought about when mothers do not want to return to work when confidence in the child’s ability to take good care of the child in the day care centre is eroded. We know from studies and expert advice that financial incentives have a major impact on the employment of mothers of young children. Mothers’ wages are often lower than their father’s. If going back to work means going to the top of the payment category, it is no good going back to low-paid work after these massive increases. It is good that this is no longer the case for single parents, but when, despite requests, there is no desire to correct the income limits for the payment categories, these disproportionate increases are true for ordinary families. These aren't rich mothers. These are not rich fathers, and these are not rich families. These are normal Finnish families, which is why the Minister of Education's proposal to increase the fees for day care cannot be supported. Mr President! When the package to weaken day care and early childhood education was here in the Chamber, we were assured time and again that the municipalities themselves will be able to decide whether or not they want to cut children off in their own municipality. That was when we were told that the municipalities themselves decided. But then when municipal decision-makers around Finland refused to operate on children, the government put them on the bench of the accused. The government named these municipalities that defend children for further cuts that were made to blame. And even now it is quite clear that not all Finnish municipalities will ever accept such large fees for middle-income Finnish families, i.e. once again the differences between families living in different municipalities will increase. Mr President! Government policy does not receive family benefits by appointing a Minister for the Family. Government policy is based on family-friendly policies, and that is not what this government is doing. Children's equal rights to day care will be abolished. Group sizes of daycare centres and schools are being increased. The quality of care and education for children is deteriorating. In families where parents are police officers, teachers, nurses, parents ’ salaries are being cut. Child supplements, parental leave allowance, sickness allowance are being cut. And at the same time, day care fees and health center fees will rise. And when the child finally went to study, the student allowance has been cut by almost a quarter. Mr President! Has this government ever stopped and thought about the consequences of all these acts? Has there ever been a review of how all this affects Finnish families, mothers, fathers and children? A housewife society is being built in which the chances of a child are increasingly dependent on what family she has been born to, and that is not right.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u46	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Regeringen planerar att införa stora förhöjningar av dagvårdsavgifterna. Samtidigt som sysselsättningsgraden — och speciellt kvinnornas sysselsättningsgrad — är vår stora utmaning skapar vi nya incentiv för att kvinnor och mann ska stanna hemma.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u47	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister! We all know that every euro invested in early childhood education will pay itself back six times as much. So it is no exaggeration to say that investing in the welfare of children is an investment in the future for all of us. The government has set an increase in the employment rate to 72%, and there is indeed a long way to go. One must wonder how these government proposals now support this objective of increasing the employment rate, since we now know the fact that we are once again building a situation for Finnish families with children that it is certainly not worthwhile to accept low-paid work. Compared to many other EU countries, the employment rate for women is currently high in Finland, which facilitates the livelihood of families and guarantees women economic independence. The two providers’ model also best guarantees the sharing of parenthood, when men alone are not responsible for supporting the family, but also have the opportunity to spend time with their children. Although there is still much to be done about equality, we can be proud of these things in the Nordic countries. Regrettably, the development of equality is not something that is only moving steadily forward, but sometimes has major setbacks, and this increase in the fees for day care, which is now under discussion, is one example of this. Here is another government proposal that should have been subject to a proper gender impact assessment. There is no need to be much of an expert on equality that realises that raising the fees for day care makes it particularly difficult for women to work. Mr President! The government’s objective of raising the employment rate will now be half-hearted if women are driven home. Yesterday at Yle, the mother of four children told me that a return to work after family leave is not worth the increase in child care fees. These are the stories of real life we get to listen to all the time. In the fall, the prime minister listened to the midwives. Now it would be worthwhile for the whole government to listen, for example, to mothers who are planning to go back to work on family leave. There are a lot of people here who would like to return to work but face a wide range of obstacles, including child care fees as an example. Other government efforts to reconcile work and family have been modest to date. Hopefully, the long-awaited Government Programme for Gender Equality will provide objectives and solutions to these issues. The gender equality programme must be a miracle worker in order to patch up at least a small proportion of these government measures, which have brought equality back in the right way. The only positive thing about the government's proposal is that the zero payment category for day care is to be maintained. It can also be welcomed that the status of single parent has been taken into account when the contributions of single parents and single parents of one and two children are slightly reduced. Mr President! It is important for us to remember that, in addition to the increase in the fees for day care, the government has made many other weakenings in early childhood education. Subjective day care rights were abolished and group sizes were increased. It is incomprehensible that child care fees are increased and the quality of early childhood education is reduced, although we all know that high-quality early childhood education must be the right of every child, regardless of the economic and social situation of the family. It has to be said that the Sipilä Government does not seem to understand or want to understand what a mistake it is making in putting this austerity policy at risk to families in need of early childhood education services. This means that the government consciously restricts the right to early childhood education for the child as a fundamental right. It is good that this bill and the legislative proposals go to the Constitutional Committee for an opinion. I very much hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will give a statement that this absurd, foolish and extremely unequal government proposal will be reversed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u48	Madam President! Every once in a while, I get contacted by a childless citizen who asks why he should pay his taxes to care for another child. I tend to answer: well, because that child is likely to pay your pension one day. This reform, which we are now dealing with, is not very great in itself, but it is going in the wrong direction, and it is not the first in the series of reforms in which we are now dismantling the real social pact, the intergenerational care agreement on which our society is built. It's great to keep the zero-payment category. It's great to keep the payment progress. But it is sad if the only good thing about the performance is that it is not even worse than it could be. For some families with children, the increases to day care fees will be considerable. In Finnish society, it has been exceptional for almost all other European countries to have women working full-time. We have women in full employment, as men do, and one of the key reasons why this has been the case is that we have been able to guarantee high-quality and relatively affordable, safe day care for children, which is why middle-class women are also fully involved in working life. At the same time, while the price of day care is being increased and its quality is being reduced as a result of the increase in group sizes, it is at least likely that this will create an incentive for mothers to stay at home with their children for a longer or more frequent period and, on the other hand, an incentive to use private day care services. These both have a multiplier effect, which the bill does not stop to think about, on the one hand, of course, the general employment situation in Finland, on the other hand, on the kind of care our children are growing up in. Does our day care system, as has happened to our health system in the past, have public care services for all that are slowly crumbling and then special, a little more expensive for those who can afford to pay for it? Finnish equality has started from the fact that our children first go to a common day care centre, then they go to a common comprehensive school. This is a big advantage for us. One of my German acquaintances said that it seems to him that Finland is not a country but a club, and he meant that here he sees the kind of equality he does not recognise in his own society. There's so much you'd like to cherish. Universalism refers to a system in which everyone has the right to services and where these services are produced in tax-funded form, at least mainly. There are hardly any universal service systems, but that ideal is quite a few of the great systems created for the structure of our welfare state in the background. Now that we are heading towards a world where careers are breaking up and months' earnings are going to vary significantly from one month to the next, and perhaps even children will have two official homes in the near future, I believe that we should rather go towards this ideal of universalism, not away from it, as these government activities now seem to take us one after another. I do not see that, on this road, it is possible for us to make a system that lasts, which can be built on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u49	Then let's go to the debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u50	Mr President! Yesterday the government said that the incentive traps are now being dismantled with a really big hand and with these yesterday's measures, which include a work sample for example, lower the threshold for access to work. I do not know whether you, Minister, were on the same table to lower this threshold for access to work, but there is some contradiction in this proposal before us today in relation to yesterday's decisions. Vatti’s special researcher Tuomas Kosonen has reported publicly that financial incentives have a very high impact and that some parents have a combination of day care fees and home care support leading to low-paid employment not increasing family incomes. In the past, when this difference was around EUR 300 for low wage earners, after this government proposal, when day care fees rise so significantly and excessively, the difference is only EUR 200. I would like to ask you, Minister: why has this not been the subject of a gender impact assessment or an employment impact assessment or an assessment of how all the costs for families with children are now being brought together at once?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u51	Mr President! In the future, the biggest burden of payment will be 86% of the tax resources taken from the common funds. One can say that the solidarity approach continues. A few sightings of the government's proposal. First of all, the government's proposal takes account of the most vulnerable groups of children. Firstly, the zero-payment category will remain, secondly, for children of low-income single parents the burden of payment will also be reduced. The third new proposal, which is perhaps less important, is shared custody: taking account of children living with one parent on a day-to-day basis in relation to payments. I believe that this is one indication that our legislation takes account of our new ways of living for divorced families and their children.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u52	Mr President! In the past, there has been a need to hear in different contexts that this government is a woman-hungry government, including Mr Kontula. This makes you wonder how this government evaluates the position of women in working life by increasing contributions from middle-income families by up to 20 per cent, as Helsingin Sanomat writes. The situation of women in working life will be significantly hampered by this so-called reform, that is to say, cuts or increases in contributions. Interestingly, the main government party from the centre, which is particularly heavy as a family party, is not here in the Chamber to discuss this so-called reform on behalf of the main government party. It's a strange situation. I only hope that Mr Grahn-Laasonen will reconsider this point — that equality of women in working life requires equal opportunities for childcare.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u53	Mr President! The bill on early childhood education fees is very challenging. They're making really painful savings here. There is a great deal here — including modern family policy in these customer fees — but I would like the Minister to answer here. And when Parliament goes through this bill, we need to assess how this affects the employment rate, the incentive traps.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u56	Madam President! When Sipilä’s government appointed the Minister for the Family, we Christian Democrats were excited and thought that families would now become the apple of the government — but unfortunately families with children have become the eyepiece of the Sipilä government. It seems to me that all these cuts and increases in payments are aimed specifically at middle-income families, who, however, also have their own work and taxes to keep this welfare society alive. It is disconcerting, as has been said here, that no downtown MPs are here to defend these drastic government increases in payments that will create more incentive traps. And this is really confusing in this proposal that, at the same time as we are trying to increase the employment rate, this proposal will certainly create situations in which it is certainly not worthwhile to accept work. I would therefore like the government to take a look at the encouraging basic security of the Christian Democrats,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u57	Mr President! Finnish day care supports and supports the child, and on the other hand it has enabled women to have an equal society, women to participate in working life. These increases in day care fees are really unreasonable for many middle-income families. It's not like this isn't gonna bring down the right to day care. Many families wonder if it is worth the less-earning parent’s participation in working life, and even after you’ve scrapped subjective day care, these decisions are really child-hating. I do indeed appeal — sometimes the collective effort of the women’s network was a subjective right to day care, and after the wars child allowances were introduced — to the need for a policy of work on behalf of the child. If compared with Sweden, there women and parents of young children do much more part-time work, combine work and family. I would ask the government how you have contributed to the introduction of this hourly day care fee in the municipalities, which would encourage part-time work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u58	Mr President! I am a little tired of the fact that the government, too, is saying many times about dismantling incentive traps. I remember from the last period that the Finns of Peru repeatedly said that working must always be more profitable than being at home. In reality, however, we are always making more nets and incentive traps, which then do not bring people back to work, and there is now a good example of that in this proposal. After all, in an ideal world, spouses are on the same income, and then, for example, when they are on parental leave, one wonders which one can stay, but this is not the case at the moment, but, unfortunately, often a man is better at income levels than a woman. And this, for example, now in this proposal also leads to the fact that it is not economically worthwhile for a low-income spouse to return to work. This isn't right.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u59	Mr President! It was very good that this family minister was raised here. It's kind of weird that when people talk about families, you don't see much of a family minister around here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u62	Mr President! Indeed, many families with children are low incomes, and for these low income families incentive traps are being dismantled. Fees for low income families with two to three incomes will be reduced, making it more profitable for a single parent, for example, to take up work than is currently the case. Another positive aspect is this consideration of joint custody situations, which is today. This legislation will be brought into order as a representative. The exposé brought it up. I would also like to highlight this hourly billing, which is possible under the law. This would be an important message for municipalities now: to promote hourly invoicing and to introduce electronic accounting systems with a very high number of positive effects. They bring savings but also increase security and, above all, free up the working hours of early childhood education professionals for the task for which they are doing the early childhood education work. So...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u63	Mr President! High-quality and affordable day care is a prerequisite for women to work, it is a prerequisite for an equal society and an equal working life. Now there is a suspicion that the government's goal is to drive women home with children, away from working life. No other conclusion can be drawn from the combined result of the government’s decisions. First, we limit the right to early childhood education, then we raise groups of children in day-care centres, and now there is a significant increase in the fees for day-care for very average-income families. This creates a very significant incentive trap, especially for women, whose income is generally lower in the family than for men, so it is likely that the result will be that women will be less involved in working life. And what is bad for equality is bad for public finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u64	Mr President! I believe that the Minister has not been happy to make these proposals, and he has done good work on how they are targeted. But the government has decided and made a choice of values when it has decided on these increases in payments and the work in which they are made. In my opinion, this is very contrary to the government's employment objectives, because, for example, VATT's researcher said when he looked at the incentive effects of home care support, that an increase of EUR 100 to home care support would have reduced women's employment by 3%. Now, if we think about the ring — this cannot, of course, be directly passed on to day care fees — that day care fees will have the same effect, and then we will return to home care support and home care support will replace women in working life, then the circle into which many women are going through this is something that the individual may not be able to foresee. We already have statistics showing that we have many hidden unemployed, and there are many women of good working age. The background is either family reasons and children or the idea that the quality of day care
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u65	Mr President! It is clear that there is an urgent need for more women in working life. We have an ageing Finland, and that means that each of us, men or women, is required to carry it into working life. In this respect, the discussion on incentive problems and their elimination is appropriate and it is also appropriate to assess the impact of the various government proposals on the elimination or increase of incentive problems and also to make them honestly visible with the measures taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u66	Mr President! Unfortunately, Finland takes substantial steps back in terms of equality through these decisions. These increases that are being made are disproportionate for families with children. It is known that there are many others. First they cut off low incomes and now they cut off middle incomes. In addition, Finnish and Finnish families will be placed in an unequal position, depending on where they live in Finland. It is important to remember that early childhood education is the right of every child and every woman also has the right to work. Minister, you have just spoken beautifully about early childhood education, but unfortunately this government has wrecked it, and this government also leaves women at home. Those of you who are a major step backwards in this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u67	Mr Harakka before the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u68	Mr President! Now we have to ask whether there are any economists in the assembly. If I remember correctly, VATTI’s previous Director General made a lot of noise about not getting parents of families with children into work. He said with a little disdain that "glorious slacking is too tempting." Where is this person now when his party is building a huge incentive trap? 25 per cent, no less than a quarter, of families with children belong to this upper payment category. The additional cost of two children's care for two average-paid employees is EUR 1342 per year. Minister Stubb has said here on several occasions that no one's taxation is going to rise. Well, this decline means that the tax rate of both working parents, the tax rate, will rise by half a percentage point. This tax increase is for some reason directed at working parents of young children and, above all, at those housewives who should want and be able to enter the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u69	Then the speech by Mr Grahn-Laasonen and then the debate will continue. — 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u70	Mr President! Talks about the scrapping of early childhood education are a lot of intimidation and underestimate the work being done in kindergartens around Finland every day, so I would hope that the debate will remain at an appropriate and respectful level. An increase of EUR 54 million was agreed in the Government Programme, and we have worked hard at the Ministry of Education and Culture to build the most socially just model possible on these margins. The majority of payment increases will apply to those families that are located in the 8th, 9th and 10th income decile, i.e. the most well-off families. Of course, they also happen when we collect large, large sums of money, middle-income families. There has been a considerable debate on the incentive traps in this debate, and they are quite a legitimate subject for discussion, because many of them have been weighed up in this preparatory work. We have tried to minimise these incentive traps in the preparation as much as possible. The Ministry of Finance's expertise has also been involved. Fees for low-income families of between 2 and 3 persons will be reduced. For example, this law makes it more profitable for single parents to take up work than before, i.e. lower payments for these most vulnerable families. And I would like to stress that early childhood education is free of charge for the most low-income people, i.e. the most vulnerable, i.e. this so-called zero-payment category is maintained. It's very important. The law gives us the opportunity to take into account different family situations. An hourly billing is possible with this law. Many municipalities have already developed it well. You might want to take a look at it and find out. Similarly, this development of high-quality and high-quality early childhood education continues strongly. In international comparison, Finnish early childhood education is an ideal for many other countries — and the fact that we have an early childhood education system that enables women to work. In all my actions as a minister, I strive to ensure that equality in Finland is better achieved and that women have a good position in the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u71	And then the debate goes on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u72	Madam President! Although the main task of an opposition politician is to look for possible shortcomings in the government's proposal, I would like to say that there has been quite a lot of thought about this incentive trap problem in this proposal and there has also been an ambitious attempt to dismantle those incentive traps. The basic problem in general is that when we have a need-tested system, every time a single incentive trap is dismantled, a new one is created somewhere else. This is mathematics, not ideology. We will not get anywhere as long as we have a means-tested system. That is why I am trying to speak for the tax-funded system which would then remove all the incentives traps at once. As long as we have need-tested parts of the system, we need to remove a key variable. Either abolishing working life or abolishing day care altogether so that we can get rid of those incentive traps. There are simply no other options, and that is why this is so problematic.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u73	Mr President! Yes, I must now say to the Social Democrats, who have said here that Finnish early childhood education has been completely destroyed, that I do disagree. And surely the Finnish early childhood education field wonders whether their work is not appreciated there. With regard to this draft law, I say that the Minister has done a good job of tackling the incentive trap problem, but the big challenge here is that ordinary middle-income families who are already paying the highest level of payment, this incentive trap problem is tough, and it is clear that this issue still needs to be clarified and seen here in Parliament's work. But after many changes in early childhood education at the same time, home care support has been as pristine as it were and then we still have these afternoon care fees, it is quite clear that we need to look at this whole thing. And when the Education Committee required the Ministry to bring a report on the state of early childhood education in spring 2017, I would ask if this work is ongoing. It would also be a good basis for making the second part of the early childhood education law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u74	Madam President! Yes, educational equality has fallen, and in that respect we can say that we are very much looking at the work of this government, which does not flatter you. It is quite a fact that in the future it will be very important to what family a child is born into. This breaks our hearts that we have made such a policy that a child should not be a child no matter what family is born into. All these increases in contributions have put families with children in a very difficult position, and it is only getting worse, namely, it is now of great importance where the municipality is born. Here today the Minister no longer said that this offer could be refused by the municipality. I ask you, Minister, can the municipalities still refuse to do this? Yesterday we heard from the Prime Minister that the municipalities will no longer refuse to do this, but 130 million will be taken from the municipalities in 2017 if the word does not start to be heard, so the minimum rates will be increased. So if the municipalities refuse, does this, Minister, mean that you will force the municipalities really to comply with this law?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u75	Madam President! The Christian Democrats have tried to understand many of the structural reforms and cuts made by the government, which have been difficult, but in this case it is not enough to understand, because this actually hits the income level of families with children and also actually weakens the profitability of accepting work. In that sense, I feel that this is going to hit the private economy, the private person and the family's purse, but also this big challenge for the state economy. This feels like a really, really weird performance. I would have drawn attention to the fact that these customer charges are now rising in municipal day care to the point that the child should rather be taken to private care, because there these rates will be lower. Has this been intentional, or has this now become, as it were, a sideshow in this performance? Is there an ideological background to this choice? This will happen if you look at the way these payments are now going to rise on the municipal side.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u76	Mr President! When the government wrote on its government programme, you wrote there that in Finland women and men are equal, and I must say that when you look at these proposals that are constantly being brought to us, it seems that there is now a desire to change this matter. It seems a little incredible to listen to the accusations of the coalition that people are somehow intimidated by the opposition when you yourself repeatedly bring us day care and children’s proposals that weaken the position of children — yes, the lack of appreciation for Finnish early childhood education professionals can be found elsewhere than in the opposition. And if this is not about strengthening the housewife society and weakening women's access to employment, why were these income limits not properly fixed so that these increases are actually directed at people with good income and not at every fourth family, as has already been mentioned here? It would have been possible, and it would have considerably reduced this incentive trap that you are now creating for mothers at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u77	Mr President! The limitation of subjective day care rights to the unemployed, the increase in group sizes and now these increases in contributions — are the policy of the government which is considered to be family-friendly from the point of view of the government team. Of course, this is not true. I too, Mr President, would be interested to receive an answer from the Minister as to whether the municipalities will be able to decide on these payments independently in future, without disciplinary measures being imposed on them by the State, as was the case with decisions relating to the limitation of subjective day care rights or the absence of a group size when the municipalities have failed to accept government proposals in those municipalities. In this context, it would be interesting to hear this position of the government and also from the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u78	Mr President! Equal opportunities for early childhood education must be secured in Finland for all children, it is the main point. There won't be any compromises. In this government proposal, the low incomes and single parents are taken into account, and that is a good thing. In the case of middle-income earners, if there are, for example, three children, the increased fees are on the upper deck. Perhaps we should ask ourselves whether something can be done to prevent them from making such a drastic increase in payments. Nor should it be forgotten that family work is important and freedom of choice is important. I would like to ask the Minister that if the parents of the child are in different places and the need for early childhood education is, of course, in the localities of both guardians, how this compensation between the municipalities would work then, and that, when there are increases, has this information been made available to the families, because these early childhood education places must also be applied for at a very early stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u79	Mr President! When we discussed here that this impact on employment and the incentive effect should be assessed in Parliament, I fully agree with that. But here is the danger that when you make individual decisions and evaluate the incentive effect of individual laws, the cumulative effect is the one that actually breaks its camel's back. Just now I received a message from my mother, who said that it is no good going to work after this, with two children in the family and so much money going up. There are these families who are currently wondering what they are doing, and this is quite unreasonable if we think that our big common goal is the employment rate. In this respect, we must assess both the tax burden, as far as the competitiveness pact is concerned, as regards day care fees, as regards afternoon care, and also the quality of day care, because the main reason for women's withdrawal from the labour market is the fear that day care will no longer be so high-quality or that early childhood education will no longer be so high-quality. We should also consider what is the structure of hidden unemployment at the moment and make a proper analysis of it. There's no actual record of that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u80	Mr President! I quite agree that we should look at the whole, the taxation and the fees, and look at the overall level, because they are, in some way, parafiscal charges. At the same time, the question arises as to how we control this. For example, when municipalities increase their revenue from payments, it should in principle mean that there is less pressure on taxation, which would also allow some time span to be reduced, and this should also be one of the objectives. While payments are increasing for fathers and mothers, the question of what is the quality of early childhood education will certainly arise for fathers and mothers, thus giving them greater legitimacy to ask how early childhood education will be developed and how to ensure the highest possible level of early childhood education for children. In that respect, it is a great thing that we have the basis for early childhood education curricula coming this side of the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u81	Mr President! Yes, I do now feel that the government has left the everyday life of a normal person. These savings and increases in payments for families with children are, as a whole, quite unreasonable and at the same time inconsistent with the government's objectives of dismantling the incentive traps. The weakening of early childhood education, the increase in the fees for morning and afternoon activities and now these increases in day care fees cannot leave any trace of the well-being of Finnish children and families. They will endanger the objectives of early childhood education and increase inequalities and increase the risk of exclusion. My question is this: has the government specifically carried out an assessment of the overall impact of savings and cuts on families with children? Now these things and presentations come here one at a time, but how do these as a whole affect children and families with children, I would like to know about that. And if this has been done, could the Minister bring the results of this evaluation here to the attention of all of us?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u82	Mr President! Some municipalities have decided not to introduce these previously decided limits on the right to early childhood education and the raising of child groups, and it is likely that in this proposal too some municipalities will increase fees, while some municipalities will not increase fees. I respect the municipalities that have chosen to invest in families with children and children and have failed to do these bad things decided by the government, but that certainly causes families to be very unequal on the basis of the municipality in which they choose to live. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether this inequality between people, which, in this situation, arises, what is to be done about it and whether this is not seen as a problem, is accepted. I do disagree as to whether it would be better to collect this income with customer fees, what is needed to organise day care. Personally, I would see that progressive taxation would be a better and more equal way of financing high-quality early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u83	Mr President! On the other hand, I am sure that there are many of us who are puzzled when, in the past, the message to us here has always been that every person capable of getting a nail to work, and now that you look at these different performances that the government brings, this will certainly give a picture to many of us, as many of us have received such a message from parents, especially from young children, that you are giving a direct message that it is not worth going to work, that it is better to stay at home. And, of course, it is not in this kind of situation where Finland is, and when the government also has a goal of increasing the employment rate, there can be no way to have the message we want to bring. That is probably why this problem, which has been caused by the government, should now be looked at again in Parliament and a solution will be found. In that sense, it is interesting that now everyone — the representatives of the government parties are here rather little — seems to be in favour of doing something about these problems, so can we now conclude from this that the government here in Parliament will then correct the problems it has caused?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u84	Mr President! For children, it is important that each child should have access to early childhood education. It's a child's right. But it is also important for children that we do not covet the opportunities of future generations. In a difficult situation, the minister and the government have brought in a bill with a lot of savings. You're going to knock out every single life-saving proposal. You are calling out for every proposal for savings: this must not be done. It would be a terrible world if, according to the opposition's whistle, we went. But the development leap is done in secondary shark farming. This is the first time that binding criteria for early childhood education have been laid down. They're in a consultation in August. Now every person who organises early childhood education has to follow them. In this way we will ensure that the early childhood education of each child is of high quality. The development programme for early childhood education is also under way and the development network is under way. Perhaps these measures should have been taken more quickly. Thank you, Minister, for the fact that quality is actually being developed. It is necessary to live in really difficult austerity efforts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u85	Mr President! The SDP has put forward its own alternative budget, which has clearly also taken a position on such cuts. The SDP as a whole has savings in expenditure. There are increases in income in a way that does not increase the tax rate. In the SDP option indebtedness development, the future of children and young people has also been taken into account in such a way that the SDP option absorbs 330 million less debt than government debt. I must remind you that the coalition is the party that has owed the most since 87. Mr President! However, I would like to know again from the Minister whether the municipalities have an independent right to decide now that these increases in payments will not be introduced if a municipality wants to make a fairer and more equal policy than the government wants to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u86	Mr President! Surgery and its magnitude are value choices. The value choices of this government are tough. You cut the most from children, families with children and education in euros. Instead of cutting from children, the green option cuts subsidies that are harmful to the environment. You want to favour pollution, we want to favour education. Mr President! Now we have been discussing these incentive traps. In the case of a middle - income family — for example, a mother who is a kindergarten teacher and a father who is a police officer — the income already ends up in the highest pay grade, i.e. a family with about average income, even a little below average income, ends up in the highest pay grade. They pay more than EUR 1450 a year if they have two children. In addition, the government is cutting much more from families with children: child allowance, benefits, parental allowance. If the holiday allowance cut in the Competitiveness Pact comes, these families will suffer losses of thousands of euros per year. Do you add together at all how much you cut from families with children?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u87	Madam President! We will not get over it, nor do we get around it, that this bill does not increase the inequality of children and increase gender inequality. I'm sure they'll agree on that. In my opinion, Mr Sarkomaa, in his first speech on the subject of the debate, I was very grateful to him for pointing out the need to carry out an extensive impact assessment. But there is also a need for an overall impact assessment on the savings and weakening of families with children, how they affect the livelihood of a normal family. You don't have to be a powder inventor to say that the number of children living in poverty is going to increase. In that sense, the alarm bells should ring at the head of the government representatives. I hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will raise a stunning objection to such a draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u88	Mr President! The government’s proposal to increase the fees for day care is proof that representatives of government parties, ministers and officials do not live in the same reality as ordinary families with children. The proposed increase in the highest grade of day care fees is very high, and this increase will weaken the funds available for the rest of the family's consumption by up to thousands of euros a year, and these various increases in payments elsewhere and in day care already made make life very difficult for families with children quite dramatically. They also jeopardise these objectives of early childhood education listed here, and increase inequalities, increase the risk of exclusion and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u89	Mr President! The government's many actions undermine children's well-being: group sizes are increased, which reduces the quality of day care, increases child supplements, the right of children of unemployed families to full-time care has been abolished. The fact that these increases are disproportionate to the middle-income family has been well highlighted in this debate, and many people have been hoping that the Committee's work will pay attention to the dismantling of these incentives traps, so that the proposal does not undermine women's employment. There are certainly options and solutions here to look at, for example, the richest and most wealthy day care fees that are now the same as those of families who are barely on average income.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u90	I will give four more replies, followed by the Minister's reply, and then, at least, we will go on to that list of speakers for a while. And those four persons are representatives of Razmyar, Lauslahti, Kiuru and Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u91	Madam President! It is easier to build strong children than to repair broken adults. That is why, Mr Sarkomaa, it might be said that our early childhood education has been scrapped, that children have been placed in an unequal position in Finland. But I would also like to hear from the Minister — it was good to hear that you are also concerned about these incentives traps — whether there is a real need to re-evaluate this. This is also coming to us in the Committee on Culture and Education, but we have a majority in the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and of course there is a government, and I would like to see changes and corrections in this respect also at committee stage. And I would also like to ask whether the municipalities themselves are also allowed to decide and determine, because, at the moment, the municipalities have had that opportunity, although it does put the municipalities in a very unequal position. I would also like to ask the Minister for an answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u92	Mr President! Incentive problems are particularly felt in low-income families and single-parent families. Value choices have been made in this government proposal. Value choices have focused on those less well-off families of children. First of all, the zero-payment category remains. Second, single-parent families with low income incomes will be somewhat less paid. In this respect, it may be noted that efforts have been made to address the problems of incentives in these less well-off and low-income families. It is clear that in the case of middle-income earners, the problem of incentives must be clarified and the whole of taxation and payments taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u93	Mr President! It is true that this government has reformed early childhood education in three ways during this period. However, what is meant by renewal and development is not in line with our view of improving services, because you have already restricted the subjective right to day care during this term of government, you have significantly increased the size of the groups, even though last season we proposed to the whole Parliament that these group sizes should have been reduced, and now you also produce a proposal to increase the fees for day care in such an incredible way that 6600 will achieve an increase of more than 20%. Yes, this equation is so impossible that I come to think of a mistake. But when I read the Evening Sanomat on April 19th, the chairman of the Pohjois-Pohjanmaa district tells me that he too is trapped in such an incentive trap. As an engineer, he likes to do calculations, and he calculated it's more profitable to be home. And then, when asked exactly what it is to earn reasonably well that you should still go to work, he tells us that if the wages were EUR 2,700 gross and taxes deducted from it, the amount would be quite the same as what he gets when he is at home. I am no longer surprised that you bring such a presentation here, when even this one who tells me this in the Evening Sanomat is the chairman of one of the forces of the Finnish People’s People’s Party. Let me ask you one more time: what is the point of this motion when yesterday Lindström's must-be steak?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u94	Then there is Mr Essayah and then there is the Minister. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u95	Madam President! At first, Mr Sarkomaa spoke very constructively about the fact that these traps of incentives now need to be examined here in Parliament and what to do about this proposal, but then he criticised the opposition for not having come up with these alternatives. For example, KD has made quite clear value choices in its own alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u98	Then the minister will answer, no more than three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u99	Mr President! Unfortunately, the Minister for the Family is not here, but this is one of the family ministers who is trying to answer these questions, and thank you for the many comments. The municipalities ultimately decide for themselves, and with this proposal the State sets a maximum ceiling. Which is why these decisions are being taken — I think the Finns are well aware of the reason, the economic situation in our country, and the fact that if the indebtedness of the state and the municipalities continues and the necessary decisions are delayed, the children we are talking about today will be the most affected. Some 84% of early childhood education will continue to be paid with public taxes, i.e. it is a strong public service and an extremely high quality one. As I have said several times, the low-income people have been particularly taken into account in this proposal. The most low-income families, the most vulnerable, will not continue to pay for early education, but the service will be free of charge for them, and even a discount will be made for low-income single-parent families with this proposal and will make it more profitable to accept work. Yes, in this proposal, apart from the fact that this is not quite easy to present, there are also improvements to the current system. I hope it will be taken into account, and I believe that you will hardly be against it, will you? The development of early childhood education was well asked here, and the work is being done with the National Board of Education. Strengthening the pedagogy of early childhood education is essential. The educational levels of kindergarten teachers in universities will be increased. This quality is strongly in focus when the Finnish National Board of Education prepares the basics of early childhood education for the first time. The National Board of Education also, at my request and in our cooperation, will for the first time be building a network for the development of early childhood education, which aims to create practices which will then be disseminated throughout the country where the quality of early childhood education is strengthened. Similarly, for the first time during this government, we have distributed development grants to improve the quality of early childhood education, and it has also been very well received by the municipalities. Similarly, further development of the law, such as the facilitation of the flow of information to families and kindergartens, the use of different forms of digitalisation and indeed this strengthening of pedagogy, is a major issue in further work, as well as what we know today about high-quality early childhood education and its effectiveness and what Mr Sarkomaa, for example, has strongly pointed out: that signs of bullying can be detected already there at the early stages of early childhood education and prevent and tackle exclusion very early. We also know more and more about this early interaction, and we are investing in it for these very smallest children. I dare say that even after all these performances, the quality of Finnish early childhood education is excellent and it is also evolving.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u100	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u101	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The government's proposal to increase the fees for day care is proof that representatives of government parties and ministers and officials live with different people in reality. The financial position of families with children has deteriorated in the last good 10 years. A large proportion of families with children are in middle income income categories, but over a longer period the average income of families with children has decreased slowly. High income is lower than average among families with children. The number of families with children living at the poverty line has increased. Poverty in spite of work is precisely the reality of families with children. Poor families with children are also more often small families. There are clearly more children under 3 and 3 to 5 years of age than in other families with children, i.e. the same age as in day-care centres. The less income, the more difficult it is to maintain a standard of living and a way of life in modern society. As the standard of living rises in society, demands also rise as to what is considered necessary for a normal life. At some point, low income leads to absolute inability to participate in activities considered to be normal. The increase of 22% in the highest grade of day care is really large and unreasonable. The increase will reduce the funds available for other family consumption by EUR thousands per year. The government’s various other increases in contributions, along with the weakening of day care and early childhood education, make life difficult for families with children quite dramatically. They put the objectives of early childhood education at risk, increase inequalities, increase the risk of exclusion and raise the threshold for going to work. Increases in payments are out of the family's other consumption and increase poverty. In families with children, every euro goes to consumption, such as food, clothing, hobbies, housing, and all of these are away from the euro that goes to day care fees. In families with multiple children, day care fees are close to EUR 1000 per month. People feel that working has become too expensive for adults. The aim of Social Democrats is to build a child-friendly and family-friendly society in Finland. A prosperous and prosperous Finland is built on good childhood. The early years of man’s life and the everyday life of a childhood family lay the foundation for an adult. The most important thing in social policy is to take good care of every child. Universal basic services reach all children and young people. A functional maternity clinic system, a high-quality early childhood education that responds to the needs of families and children, and a school that supports the development of children create a structure that effectively prevents exclusion and creates equality. Strongly resourced and well-targeted basic services reduce the need for special services, which is a policy that is both economically and humanly sustainable. For the SDP, high-quality free early childhood education is one of the key objectives of family policy. We are in favour of a broad subjective day care right. Early childhood education must be the right of each child, regardless of the wealth of the parents or the employment situation. The Social Democrats stress in particular the importance of quality day care and shift care for the benefit of children, parents and society. Early childhood education must support the comprehensive development of the child. It is hoped that municipalities will not be forced to increase their day care fees by means of government decisions. This is the wisdom I really hope of the decision-makers of the municipalities. The positive conditions of childhood also provide the basis for the good life of adults and thus for the well-being of our society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u102	Madam President! There is one interesting feature of this government that shows itself in a very special way. We have a central prime minister, and perhaps for a long time, for ten years, agriculture has not been feeling as bad as it is right now. We have a coalition finance minister, and perhaps after the wars there has never been such significant cuts in education, science and research. Then we have the Finns of Peru, and never in history has there been as much cut off from the low-income and low-income ones as we do now. It just occurred to me this kind of statement that this is a very special government coalition and falls into the history of these as if completely opposite expectations as one might think that this government coalition produces: better education, better food law, agriculture, self-sufficiency and better care for the underprivileged. But everything seems to be going the other way around. It's too bad there's so few listeners here. But then on to the subject itself. The Government is now improving the finances of municipalities by increasing the contributions of residents, not by participating in the plight of municipalities. This is an extraordinary policy solution that, in a way, the finances of municipalities will be improved by increasing municipal payments there and here and there all the time. In other words, in practice, the government is destroying its own programme of increasing purchasing power and, at present, the only ones on the domestic market that are producing some kind of growth for us are now taking away the vitality. This is a little sad to follow, and no matter how good you want to think about it, you are running out of things to think about. Should I say "well cut"? In 2013, 92 per cent of children in early childhood education were in municipal early childhood education and around 74 per cent of all school-age children were in municipal early childhood education. According to our view, the primary task of municipal early childhood education is to ensure that parents of families with children have the opportunity to work or study and to have safe and developing day care for their children for that time. Day care fees must be defined in such a way that they do not eat unreasonably the incentives to work, but enable and encourage work. Now these increases are a decisive factor in exacerbating these incentive traps. The planned increase would increase the monthly day care fees for a family of two children to more than EUR 600 when the family has two parents and the family belongs to the highest category of payment. These are wild increases. Increases in day care fees would hit those who receive between EUR 2500 and EUR 3000 per month for their work. These increases are exorbitant and actually rise to more than EUR 1 000 per year. And I am just wondering if this is the line now — as some representative has already asked — whether we are deliberately directing families in the direction of having children put into private family care, because that is more reasonable after this change. Is that the government's goal? I think it should also be said, Minister, then openly, whether this is it or not. One more observation. These weakenings are now affecting a very narrow sector. These various cuts feed on the purchasing power of the lowest-income ones. And the point of view which has not yet been discussed in this Chamber, and which has not been raised, is that the various renovations, pipelines and so on already represent an expense of nearly 10 billion in society, which means that many families spend EUR 100, 150, 200 a month, and all of these should be dealt with. And when there is a situation in this same context that day care fees are rising, the opposition is right here to be concerned about whether mothers will stay and care for the children at home. I think the government is wise to listen to these views. Is it really the case that this $50 million makes sense to create in the future a group of adults whose childhood has been very different from that of others? Perhaps we should really think again about whether this money could come from somewhere else, as the Christian Democrats have suggested, that a great deal of revenue should be generated by investing in the fight against the black economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u103	Mr President! Now that we are dealing with the fees for early childhood education, we really need to take into account the other decisions that have already been taken, which concern our early childhood education and families with children. As we all unfortunately remember, in this Chamber, by the government, we have already restricted the right to day care, we have increased group sizes, and now we are also by the government to increase these fees for early childhood education. Surely many families with children are thinking about why they are now being put on top of an unreasonable burden, especially when we take this incentive trap problem, which is specifically related to middle-income families: when everywhere else in society there is a message that everyone is capable of working, here we are sending a message that it is actually worth staying at home. There is nothing wrong with this proposal for everyone, and the Minister must be commended for it that this has been achieved in these difficult frameworks, but I still think it is quite unreasonable that middle-income families should now be treated quite harshly. It is recalled that from previous savings made in early childhood education, some municipalities have wisely decided not to introduce them, and this will also be the case with this reform. As the government has already said, these savings targets, how much they should save, are not all realistic, because not all municipalities will introduce them and in that sense savings will not be fully achieved. On the other hand, inequalities between municipalities are also increasing. I would therefore ask the Minister to focus further on whether this problem of home care support could have been addressed and looked at the solution through it and seek improvement, for example, in these incentive traps.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u104	Madam President! The Christian Democrats have supported the government on many points, even in difficult solutions, but it must be said that we are concerned about family policy. Good objectives have been set in the Sipilä Government's programme, such as the objective of strengthening the well-being of children and families and their own resources, developing school and early childhood education to support the welfare of the child, and even appointing a family minister, which is in itself a good thing, but unfortunately it is difficult to find a positive content of family and demographic policy in government activities. Unfortunately, these increases in customer fees for early childhood education both feed on the purchasing power of families with children and create exactly the incentive traps we have been talking about here. There is now a need for positive messages for families, especially for families with children. For us, the sustainability gap is largely due to the fact that the number of births is decreasing year by year and the age structure of the population is being distorted, which will then lead to an increasing financial burden. Positive messages would also be needed to encourage families to have the number of children they dream of. We know that, on average, children will be fewer than families themselves would like, and therefore a more positive approach to family policy would be needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u105	Mr President! When we look at all the savings, cuts and increases in payments for children and families with children, we cannot help but think that the government does not know what it is doing. I believe that the Minister himself, as a mother, would not want to be involved in these proposals. We all know that the euro invested in early childhood education will come back many times over, and that is why all children should be entitled to early childhood education. Uniform and high-quality early childhood education and comprehensive school are the foundations of an equal society. Despite the Minister's assurances, the actors in day care and early childhood education in the field will question whether high-quality early childhood education can be carried out in increasing day care and early childhood education groups in the future. High-quality early childhood education is based on the encounter and interaction between the child and the parent, and there is a fear of what these larger groups of children mean, whether there is so much to be with the child and whether the child can be held in arms and so on. Mr President! Investing in a child is an investment in the future, and according to studies, the well-being of children and young people is highly differentiated according to the socio-economic status of parents. The family’s financial difficulties are linked to the nausea of children and young people, and we have good examples of this in dealing with the recession of the 1990s. As many as 50 percent of those living in their childhood and youth will have some mental problems. The costs of this previous recession are still being paid, and now it seems little that this government is making the same mistakes. Is it true that these savings will also be paid for decades to come? Although in this bill families with low incomes have been well taken into account — about that
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u106	Mr President! It's common to say that the welfare state is the best friend of a woman. But I have to say, this government is not a very good friend of working mothers. So many tough performances have come from many sectors. Although I recognise that the Minister has tried to make as good a presentation as possible within that untenable frame, when the frame is untenable, it does not, unfortunately, make it good, but rather worrying from the point of view of the employment rate. In Finland, the birth rate has fallen, but babies are not just a private matter. The amount affects society as a whole. Reconciling work and family is not a private matter either, because it affects the employment rate and hence society as a whole. When women’s employment has been evaluated, one of the underlying factors is that women who have education and who have the opportunity to work do not go to work is that they are concerned about the quality of day care. Now we are in many directions making decisions that undermine women's employment. While good early childhood education records are made, it is unquestionably that group sizes increase, especially for part-time children, to time-untenable size classes, undermines the quality of day care. It makes many mothers wonder if I would stay home after all — especially if the work is part-time and does not provide a decent living. Now that the increase in child - care fees comes on top, it is a situation in which, for example, when a father is well - incomed and a mother is low - incomed, these increases will undoubtedly tempt the mother to stay home and care for the children. The threshold salary of a low-income mother rises by more than 150 euros. In fact, when we add to this the increases in daily care fees, we add what is happening, for example, on the side of housing policy in terms of interest reductions and other things, and what is happening through the competitiveness package to the livelihoods of families, let us start talking about the combined amounts already so large that it will certainly have an impact, for example, on what kind of leisure opportunities children have. If we weigh all these things together, then we have to say that even children in this government do not have very many friends, although I do believe in the sincere soul life of the minister in this matter, that much has been discussed. But if the municipalities introduce these day care fees, and then there is that 60-euro afternoon fee in the background, then this is a very large whole. In fact, it is not only about what is happening in the economy, it is also about what is happening in working life. If we add to all these issues, for example, women's fixed-term employment relationships through the dismantling of the regulation that we currently have, more trial periods and drive public services down, and thus more public activities and thus more easily into situations where we are also shopping for what kind of collective agreements we have, then this will be quite a circle. I think it would be worth thinking about the fact that if we save here and get a few euros saved, what will we lose in the employment rate of women and what will be the reduction in our public finances through this? So it is not just a question of payment policy, it is not just about the quality of day care, it is about how these decisions together affect how each of us works.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u107	Mr President! I will start with what has been achieved so far in early childhood education. The government has spoken of the reform of early childhood education, and this reform and development has in fact proved to be a mere saving. To date, not only has this increase in daily care fees been achieved, but group sizes have been increased and subjective day care rights have been limited. And now that we are considering what great achievements are at stake, many will see these seeds of reform and development, which the government is talking about, rather as a really hard austerity policy. And that is why it is sad here together to wonder what the great enthusiasm for the development of early childhood education has disappeared during this reign. I sincerely believe that the Coalition Party has been developing early childhood education, and I do not understand why this desire for development has been given so much to me. I also find it very problematic that these reforms, which have just been mentioned, plus the increase in the fees for morning and afternoon activities, the removal of child benefit from the index and the combined increase in social and health care contributions, will lead to a clear lack of money for families with children to live on a daily basis. It does matter what kind of situation we are driving Finnish families with children. The wildest thing is that today there is no educational equality, even the kind of family that happens to be born. This influence of the family now seems to be clearly increasing, even though we have traditionally tried to ensure that educational equality is promoted rather than reduced. It has now been different during this reign. But the worst part is that what matters in the future is not where the family is born, but where the municipality is born. I think that the Minister has rightly stated in the past that, despite the fact that these increases in payments have been made and these restrictions have been made and the group sizes have been increased, the municipalities can finally decide, within the framework of their own self-government, whether they are involved. That is why it has been extraordinary that this right to make a decision is no longer mentioned. Rather, it has been suggested, as the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance did yesterday, that these minimum levels of payments will then be increased in the future, because next year's spending limits have already been set aside, according to information we have received for 2017, 130 million blackmails on the finances of municipalities. That's 130 million more sticks for the municipalities. And if the word does not come, then the minimum rates of payments will be raised even further. In this regard, this is frightening whether the municipalities really have a choice as to whether they are going to support this government policy. Mr President! In addition to these impacts on municipalities and the autonomy of municipalities, an important angle has emerged today, namely this dismantling of incentive traps. I cannot help but wonder whether we are now talking about proposals from the same government. Yesterday the government suggested that incentives traps should be dismantled, lower the threshold for access to work, and quite a lot of stick was given. Yesterday, there were very different proposals for measures to dismantle barriers to employment, which, according to the government's own words, left for the dismantling of the incentive traps. Today we are dealing with a proposal whose impact on the employment rate is quite unpredictable, and we are also afraid that the incentive traps will increase. This is a big question. Therefore, it would have been important to assess these effects on employment, the effects on gender, but also on families, when we already have many of the average incomes in our highest pay category today. I can’t help but say that it’s a really tough estimate if VATTI’s specialist who has studied this incentive trap problem for a living, Tuomas Kosonen says that financial incentives have a major impact and that some parents have such a combination of day care and home care care support as a result of the fact that employment in low-paid jobs does not increase family income, so that in practice in families at least one parent, usually with a lower income, stays at home. It is rather sad to assume that this is now the way to encourage home stay, not to dismantle incentive traps, as was done yesterday. President! Finally, I would like to draw attention to what has wisely been said here by a few Members, namely the effects of this proposal on the increase in private care. From the point of view of the Social Democrats, it is a genuine and relevant concern whether there is now room for private care to become more interesting because these legislative proposals lead to a situation in which private care is already a genuine alternative, with the costs of day care being increased in this way and incentives being left behind.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u108	Madam President! Although the Minister has already left, I would like to add one chapter to which he referred a couple of times, namely that 85% of the costs of day care after this reform will also be covered by tax resources. This is true, of course, but if we look at the children in the highest category of payments, then in these cases the amount of the tax subsidy will fall to 57%, which is then quite close to half the cost being borne by the families themselves, not jointly and severally.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u109	Mr President! I recommend that the Government examine the THL studies assessing the position of children and families with children in today's Finland. Even on the basis of these publications, it is clear that there is a structural indifference in Finnish society and politics towards children. The financial situation of families with children has deteriorated and child poverty has tripled in the last 15 years. Several indicators indicate that children and adolescents have experienced an increase in nausea and an increasing number of children suffer from difficult problems. The recession in the 1990s created a vicious circle in the services of children and young people, in which the cuts in central government transfers and increases in payments created a growing need for remedial services. Later in the years of growth, the vicious circle was not dismantled, but in the everyday growth environments of children, day care and school, there were changes that call into question the potential for good growth of children. The clinic and student and school health services are unable to meet the growing need for support. Increasing the complexity of working life poses serious challenges for the good management of parenthood. The government is characterised by a great deal of concern about children, but concerns are not translated into political decisions when allocating money and workers and when deciding on payments. Structural indifference deepens in a society where action on economic conditions and business logic spreads to all areas of social development. Mr President! Childhood is the life of children here and now. It is a condition for the preservation and renewal of the human species and culture. Continuity and renewal of society require that each generation has the capacity to care for children, and the level of renewal of society depends on the quality of children's lives. I am absolutely opposed to these increases in payments. I put the question why we in Finland have comprehensive school, upper secondary school, vocational school and higher education institutions free of charge, but early childhood education must be paid for. According to a survey by the National Audit Office, it is most effective in society to invest in children under the age of 5, i.e. children in day care. So I suggest to the government that it withdraws this proposal and prepares it for free in early childhood education in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u110	Mr President! We have heard many times in this Chamber the weak aspects of this proposal. Personally, I would like to highlight the fact that families with children live mostly in cities, and especially in large cities, the cost of living is very high for many reasons. Housing is expensive, young couples have student loans on their necks, and all living at the same time needs to be built up, and when it comes to such a presentation, where payments are raised, when even in working life, young people often have a weak and intermittent position, all of this together does not encourage families to have more children. This proposal takes very low incomes into account, that is a good thing, but that weakness comes from the fact that two-year-old families are already paying significantly higher contributions at medium income levels. These now fall upon those working, honest, tax - paying, hardworking young people who try to hold on and care for their families. In other words, this proposal goes against what has already been said a lot during the previous government, that women should be encouraged to work more and more, so that we can get people into the workforce and that women's careers are more uniform and stronger, because they will then be reflected in social security and pensions, and also in the fact that they will then move forward. Unfortunately, this reconciliation between work and family is now completely lacking in the government programme. I would urge the government to provide a proper, concrete programme to strengthen the role of women in working life and to increase the role of fathers in caring and to create the conditions for a better sharing of that parenthood so that it does not fall on the back of the other person alone. The issue of gender equality is the one that must also be addressed in impact assessments, how this affects women and men and their opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u111	Madam President! It is unfortunate if day care fees create incentives traps in such a way that it becomes more difficult to reconcile work and family. Unfortunately, this government proposal leads in this direction, namely to raise the threshold for the profitability of going to work and, on the other hand, to having children. On the other hand, I would like to thank the government for not seeking similar restrictions and cuts on home care support during this period, which were under very great pressure during the previous government, when the Christian Democrats were very much able to prevent the conditions for receiving home care from being undermined. I believe that families must have a genuine opportunity to make choices, and especially at a time when children are small, under 3 years of age, families should also be able to make an economic choice in the best interest of the child, whether it is home care or care in day care or family day care.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u112	Madam President! Thank you for this debate that we have had together. It is a good thing that this was brought up strongly. The Minister is no longer here, but thank you also for being able to listen to us during this debate for a long time. It was good to hear that the representatives of the government party share common concerns as much as we do here in the opposition. But it is true that early childhood education is something we have all appreciated in Finnish society, and we have been proud of that. It is true that the Social Democrats have also done a great deal of work for and for this. But it is quite right to say that early childhood education is also being scrapped. Of course, these decisions that have been taken during this term of government must be said not to be converted into black and white. Children are put on an unequal footing, municipalities are placed on an unequal footing. As I said earlier, when these savings are on our children, it is completely wrong. It is far better to have strong children in society than broken adults, and if these savings are made in this way now, they will inevitably be found in front of the future. Moreover, this proposal, which is now coming to us in Parliament, is taking considerable steps back, above all in terms of equality, given that it is precisely the ways and means of getting women to work better. We should think about home care support and all the other incentive traps that unfortunately exist in this society at the moment. For example, I am very concerned about the employment of immigrant women. In other words, there are already enough of these problems, and unfortunately this is not the direction we are taking to improve the employment rate for women. All in all, I hope that these concerns will be shared. These can, of course, be primarily influenced by the committee when this comes, but I hope that the government ministers, and in particular this family minister, whom we have talked a great deal about today, will also take this issue comprehensively. Bad decisions can be changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u113	Mr President! It seems that the government considers childhood to be just such a passing phase and does not attach great importance to what is happening in those few years of rapidity. Of course, in the history of the individual, childhood is relatively quickly over, but at the level of society, the child population is and remains a structural part of it, whose quality of life reflects the quality of society as a whole and the potential of our future. If childhood is quickly viewed as fleeting preparation for adulthood, children are not noticed or considered important in themselves, as children. I do not think that these decisions should allow a child to have his childhood years as a child. Now, quite clearly, the government also ignores the fact that in those few years of childhood the conditions are being created for the kind of adult children to grow up. By increasing the poverty of families with children, the government will not do well. It also seems that the government has forgotten that everyone is only a child once. A child cannot wait a few years for those so-called healings. My question is: are these matters of children and families with children at the bottom of the political hierarchy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u114	Yes, Mr President. I think Mr Haatainen raised a good point of view in the debate, which was a long-standing subject here, namely the impact assessment of the drafting of legislation. Of this performance, too, we have to admit that not everything is in the pipeline. The impact assessment is a little too thin on this bill, and therefore very little credibility in this legislative proposal to take a position on the problems raised by the representatives in this debate. Mr President! Since there are very few opposition representatives left, I think there are actually two left, so I'll still raise one... We have already spoken a lot in Parliament about the threat of regional equality in education. Regional equality in education has already been threatened by these other proposals from the Ministry of Education, where concentration is speeded up very much and where access to education is jeopardised in many ways. Yes, regional educational equality is also linked to this performance: if many municipalities decide otherwise, then of course the starting point is that very much depends on where the child lives, whether he is allowed to go to day care. This means that equal access to early childhood education is at risk in this country, if very badly this happens.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u115	Mr President! Here, too, there was a desire to be involved in this debate and perhaps to bring the broader economic perspective behind this proposal. When we really look at the impact of these increases on the money available to middle-income families, we are talking about an annual reduction of more than EUR 1 000 in the money that this family spends on everything else. Then, in view of all the other cuts, the various increases in payments that have taken place in public finances, and when we see the way in which this competitiveness pact is vaccinating the incomes of their families, it is beginning to have quite an impact on our domestic demand, which has, however, driven our economic growth — however small it has been — even if it has kept our economy in some way, head up somewhat above the water level. And even through this, you would think that the government parties — especially now the people of the United States — would be interested in what negative effects this will have on our economic development. And, as Mr Harakka asked at an earlier stage, where are those economists from the United States, who have always believed that these incentive traps should be specifically dismantled and that we should, in particular, get women to work? Now that these things are really being discussed, and now that we are at the centre of them, the crowd will shine with their absence. You can't help but wonder. The same is true of the representatives of the Central Party, when they are at least always on the side of the families in their election speeches, but when we come here to side with the actions, the result is a little different. But all the same, from this economic point of view too, this proposal is unfortunately going in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u116	Mr President! It was good to have a representative. Mr Räsänen brought this development of purchasing power into this debate. I packed it here for a moment to forget, as I looked at this performance from the point of view of such a civilist politician, but I think this has already started knocking on my conscience. In other words, in the Committee on Finance we have very often heard experts who are concerned about the purchasing power of Finns. Now we are beginning to be on the last track, when the total number of these cuts for families with children, which, when everything is added together, are beginning to be on the line that it will have quite a significant impact on purchasing power. In this way, if we have been thinking today in particular about the position of low-income people in relation to this bill, then the development of purchasing power should also be seen. In that respect, this bill may also have a financial impact on the state, but I do not believe that this is the case there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u117	Madam President! Yes, this proposal poses problems in terms of the deteriorating development of purchasing power and, on the other hand, in terms of this incentive trap issue. Here during the debate, a number of representatives have expressed the wish that changes should have been made to home care support. I have some doubts as to what kind of changes would have been desired or what would have been hoped for in support of home care. However, I would like to stress that it is important for families to have genuine freedom of choice in favour of home care for young children. And even according to studies, families also appreciate home care support as family policy support and the possibility that a small child can also be cared for at home if desired.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u118	Mr President! Historylessness typical of our time highlights the blurring of the debate. This was also characteristic of the privatization of public services in the 1990s, when there was little discussion as to why health and education services and early childhood education were developed with public funding. After all, at that time the welfare state was criticised, among other things, for assuming that the state and the municipality were doing things and for forgetting the love of their fellowman. These are the same speeches we have heard last autumn and this winter. However, it may be asked whether it is not precisely the idea of caring for other people that we collectively pay taxes that enable the municipality to provide care, health, education and day care services for everyone, and so we could reduce the fees and aim for full free day care. When it comes to the welfare of children, it is about the nature of the welfare society and the relationship between the generations. In my view, we are approaching a night watchman state, which is a mini-state concept of individual freedom, in which only the maintenance of external and internal order is considered to be the task of the state and the market would be run by everything else. It is a political choice which would lead each citizen to self-sufficient access to education, social and health services, early childhood education and all other services because of the scarcity of public services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u119	Madam President! In conclusion, I would just like to say that, when Finland is part of this state order that approves high taxation, there has not yet been the proposal which is the tax solutions which will then compensate for the cuts that have been made. They are still waiting for their arrival, and I find it somewhat reprehensible that their presentation should be prolonged. Finland is well known for our acceptance of high taxation, we think that with the tax levied, we get tax refunds every day, as it were, in the form of all kinds of services. But if this keeps narrowing down, then there must also be a big tax reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u120	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u121	Madam President! For geographical reasons, around 17.5 million kilos of seed potatoes are produced each year in the Liminka and Tyrnäva regions. This is about 70 per cent of Finland’s total need for seed potatoes. The area is important for the maintenance of domestic seed potatoes and also for ensuring general security of supply. Potato is an important part of food security, we know that and we all recognise that. The law in force does not clearly define the categories of seed potatoes used for the production of seed potatoes or the categories of seed potatoes used for the production of other potatoes. With this bill, it would be done. The proposal also designates the Food Safety Agency as a control authority and regulates the conditions for potato production in the regions, the retention of information, the right to information and the right to inspect. In addition to the possibility of prohibiting the marketing or use of potatoes and the possibility of measures to preserve the plant health status of a high-quality seed potato production area, the draft law has been added. The high quality of potatoes also enables wider exports, which should be increased from the current 3 to 4 million kilos to double. This would provide us with greater security of supply and provide rural farmers with jobs. Therefore, Madam President, I believe that the draft law is very much in favour of ensuring the high quality of our country's essential basic food, potatoes. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u122	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u123	Madam President! This is a great and positive thing in this rather gloomy debate today. This presentation will improve the condition, general usability and the cleanliness of our seas and will be a very significant and important change. This maritime spatial planning would be a new form of planning separate from the spatial planning system. Sea basin plans would be generic, territorial waters and, as a whole, economic zone-wide plans that address the needs of different activities in a broad-based way, in line with their needs. This is so important that, now that this protection is being done, it has not been as coordinated and regionally controlled as it could have been. Of course, this also meets a single EU directive and is, as it were, forced to implement it, but here it is done in a so-called good way, and this is a welcome reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u124	Madam President! This government proposal is bringing the EU directive into Finnish legislation on maritime spatial planning. The objective of the EU directive is good. The idea is that the use of marine areas should be planned in accordance with the ecosystem approach, i.e. that all activities at sea and the coordination of different uses should take into account the sustainability of nature. However, the uniqueness of Finnish marine nature has been forgotten by the Government’s proposal. The Baltic Sea is a very sensitive sea, and we in Finland must take special care of it. The Government's proposal before us should take better account of the sensitivity of the Baltic Sea. The bill is about to make formula decisions for sea areas. The plans would be decided by the regional councils whose territory includes territorial waters. However, responsibility for the state of the Baltic Sea rests with us all. Therefore, the responsibility for maritime spatial planning should be at the level of the state. Mr President! The Government is also continuing its harmful dismantling work when the proposal does not require an impact assessment or an adequate consultation of maritime spatial plans. Planning must be streamlined in some other way than creating a situation where local interests threaten the state of the Baltic Sea. There is room for different uses and protection of the sea. It is important that a working framework for maritime spatial planning is now established in line with the EU's good objectives. I hope that this proposal will be further specified in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u125	Mr President! Mr Hänninen's idea is all right here, but this does not remove the maritime management plan that belongs to the state. These are the two things: this new proposal will improve and supplement the situation in the Baltic Sea too, because we have, however, this basic maritime management plan for which the state is responsible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u126	Madam President! The draft law would implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for maritime spatial planning. The Land Use and Building Act would include regulations on maritime spatial planning, which would also be applicable in the Finnish Economic Zone. Maritime transport and other uses of the sea, such as the generation of energy with wind and wave power and the placement of different pipelines and pipelines, have increased and environmental pressures due to use have increased. The use of marine areas in non-fish farming has also continued to increase. Today, the planning of the use of marine areas is only possible in the territorial waters. This is not comprehensive enough in view of the challenges of sea use and the need to protect the marine environment and the fact that marine use and ecosystems extend to much wider regions. In addition, marine information is fragmented in the hands of different authorities and the volume and quality and availability of marine information varies, making it difficult to make effective use of this information in marine planning. The aim of the proposal is to organise maritime spatial planning and the preparation of maritime spatial plans in the most appropriate and resource-efficient way possible. That is in line with the policy of this government programme. Sea basin plans create added value and conditions for the long-term and sustainable development of the sea basin. Madam President! All in all, this is a very welcome and good bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u127	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u128	Madam President! The aim of this proposal is to provide greater scope for the product development of insurance companies and thus to promote competition between insurance companies through more flexible regulation of insurance history data on the basis of which insurance premiums are based. This is very welcome. There is a very closed procedure in Finland as regards the tendering of insurance. These products are very similar to all, and price differences are a few dozen euros. The provisions of the compensation procedure are also specified in a number of respects. Everyone knows that if you have to do something with the insurance company, you almost always lose. If you don't have a fair legal security policy, you're in a lot of trouble. It is very good that these criteria are clarified. This will also reduce the range of complaints from the Consumer Disputes Board and is a very good and worthwhile change in all aspects.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u129	Partly, in part, for a second reading will be presented in order of number 8. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 6/2016 vp, a single reading of the Convention and then a second reading of legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u130	Mr President! The treatment of ballast water plays an important role in protecting the marine environment. Unprocessed ballast waters are used to transfer organisms to areas that are not their natural habitat. In this case, the new alien species may cause major damage to the original organism strain of the area. In the context of the marginalisation of the original stock of alien species involved in ballast water, the damage is very extensive, both in terms of the diversity of the marine environment and, for example, in terms of the fishing industry. The possibility of the transfer of alien species is increased by modern high-speed shipping and large numbers of ships. With the entry into force of the law, we will effectively prevent species migration and protect the marine environment from their effects. The Baltic Sea is defined as a highly sensitive maritime area where it is also not possible, for geographical reasons, to exchange ballast water in accordance with international regulations. These points underline the importance of the adoption of the Convention. At the same time, we should be aware that according to the committee's report, 55 models of cleaning equipment have been type approved, but in practice they have not yet been made to work in the desired way. When the provisions of this legislation are put into effect, the aim must be to ensure that the change does not entail costs for Finnish shipping which undermine its competitiveness. The law also defines a restriction which excludes, for example, sea rescue vessels and Border Guard vessels from the law. In this context, we must ensure that the Defence Forces' vessels are also excluded from the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u131	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u132	Madam President! First of all, the law on general conditions for aid to economic activities does not appear to be linked to the fight against the shadow economy. However, experts believe that greater attention should be paid to preventing tax evasion in the distribution of business subsidies. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has therefore included in its report that when the law on state aid is renewed, the fight against the shadow economy must be incorporated into the new law. This is a good suggestion. The grey economy continues to cause so much loss to the Finnish economy that all the means to contain it are necessary. I would therefore like to make the following statement, which has been distributed on the table: "In adopting the bill, Parliament requires that the government take the fight against the shadow economy as part of the forthcoming reform of the State Aid Act. The State Aid Act should include provisions ensuring that business subsidies and other grants are not granted to non-complying entities and that the authorities have adequate access rights to information from the point of view of combating the shadow economy."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u133	Madam President! The aim of this proposal is to harmonise and improve the efficiency of the use of aid and to ensure that aid is subject to a national ex ante assessment of compliance with European Union State aid law. The so-called 'good support' conditions would be added to the legislation. The fulfilment of the conditions should be assessed before the introduction of the aid scheme or individual aid. This reform is very welcome and improves the ability of the applicant to understand how this support is sought and what its conditions are. As a third point, attention is drawn to the fact that the beneficiary of the aid has to provide more basic information, which is of course of interest to the financiers, when these subsidies are often applied for for a project and then there are external donors. When you don't always find out the purpose of applying for that support or it's not entirely clear, that's where it gets better. Then, on this point raised by Mr Kontula, I do agree that this aspect of the shadow economy is something which, as the committee has said, must definitely play an essential role in all this type of legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u134	Mr President! I have a brief speech to make. I support the statement made by Mr Kontula. Apparently, Mr Laukkanen also agreed to this at least to some extent that it is a good statement that we really must do everything to combat the shadow economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u135	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u136	Madam President! Throughout modern times, at the heart of the labour market has been the idea of wage work, i.e. that the basic players in the labour market are the workers who sell their time and the employer who buys it. Moreover, for the last 150 years or more, it has been thought that full-time pay must be sufficient for the worker to support himself and his family. In other words, for the pursuit of another profit, work carried out under the control of another will be paid wages that cover the cost of resuming the workforce. I will start with these basics, because from the public debate over recent weeks it seems that they are not clear to everyone. It has been proposed to work without pay and work on hunger pay, it has been demanded that the wages of workers making profits for businesses should be paid out of tax revenue, as if the basic laws of the labour market had been completely forgotten. Madam President! In its initiative now before us, the Left Alliance is proposing a minimum statutory wage for Finland. It is not about anything terribly radical, just the basics of the labour market. The minimum wage is already in use in almost all European countries. In Finland it is missing, as we have considered that the minimum wage per collective agreement is sufficient because of its generality. However, there are already nearly a quarter of a million employees in Finland whose wages are not agreed at all by collective agreements and whose minimum wages are not negotiated by trade unions. It is expected that this group will only grow in the next few years. In this proposal, the minimum wage would be revised annually to half the average wage of the population. In practice, this would mean EUR 10 per hour for current wages. In full-time work, the monthly salary would be about EUR 1700. However, the trainee’s salary could be 80% of the minimum wage. The motion for minimum wage has already given rise to confusion. Especially the right question has been asked what happens now to Finland’s competitiveness. The trade union movement, on the other hand, has been concerned that the general minimum wage might undermine the position of collective agreements. In the light of current knowledge, both concerns are unfounded. In particular, Germany's experience has shown that the minimum wage can well live alongside and even strengthen general collective agreements. The minimum wage proposed in the proposal is so moderate that it would have no significant impact in the areas covered by collective agreements. For example, the minimum wages in the real estate sector and in the commercial sector, known for their small wages, are now above the minimum proposed. On the other hand, the minimum wage is important for individual work excluded from collective agreements. As a result, all paid work in Finland would comply with the requirement of the European Social Rights Committee that full-time work pay should go beyond the national poverty line. Ladies and gentlemen, my many colleagues! The Finnish labour market is changing. Demands for strengthening local reconciliation, increasing immigration, robotisation, job entrepreneurship and sharing economy challenge traditional labour market structures. In this house, however, we can choose: either we are watching the change or we are courageously looking for new solutions to new situations. The Left Alliance has never been a bystander and has never thought of doing so now — therefore the minimum wage law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u137	Madam President! This is indeed a very timely initiative, and indeed this minimum wage has not been set in Finland. According to the initiative, the minimum wage is set at 50% of the gross average salary of the last third of the previous year and the minimum hourly salary would be revised in April of each year by a Government decree. In calculating terms, taking into account the average tax retention, the minimum wage thus defined would be around 60% of the country's net average wage, which is defined in the implementing guideline of Article 4.1 of the renewed European Social Charter as the minimum wage threshold for eligible wages. I think it was a good choice for those who took the initiative to raise the threshold for decent pay. This Chamber often calls on the various EU directives, including the Nordic procedures and the European model. I would not see it as a bad thing that the debate that is starting now would actually get windy and that in Finland too there could be such a decent salary lower limit. This is already so small that there's no way a single parent family can handle this. Of course, there is little left to ask when Germany has defined the minimum wage of EUR 8.5 per hour, which will be around EUR 1470, which was your idea that you would be so different from this German model.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u138	Mr President! The price level in Germany is also slightly different from that in Finland. These concerns about competitiveness are, in my view, unfounded, even because even the minimum wage limit can also be adjusted by adjusting what is our average wage. Our average wage is influenced by the general wage dispersion, which is the highest wage. Sweden, for example, has achieved a relatively reasonable average wage through lower pay differentials than in Finland and higher starting wages at the time of entering the labour market than in Finland. It is not just a question of what an individual worker receives. It is also a question of how large is the accordion, what is paid within a given national economy for an individual hour or month.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u139	Mr President! Let me just make this brief. After all, the Christian Democrats have tabled this kind of testimonial, and this is very close to the model — the apprenticeship system — which, as we know, is very effective in Germany. There you will receive a decent salary during your studies and, in most cases, a commitment and a promise that you will get a job where you are trained, then a job for the future. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities visited the Vattenfall factory, where their needs had been considered in particular with the legislators, and those needs were such that they did not receive the necessary workforce from normal vocational training, so they, together with the state, then created this legislation in the direction of taking a person to work and also promising him a job, which has been a huge help there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-20-ps-40.u140	Mr President! When these different models are imported from one economy to another, it must also be noted that we have quite a different history. In Germany, apprenticeships have been practiced for decades, even for centuries, and there is a totally different tattoo to the one in Finland today. The size of the workplace is also very different from that of Finland. I do not see that there are realistic possibilities in Finland at the moment to enter a similar apprenticeship system, at least very quickly, as is the case in Germany — just because we employers are not prepared to invest as much in training their workforce as they are in Germany. I do not know whether they would be ready in Germany if they were not forced to do so and if the situation were not for vocational schools to become so few and so poorly trained workers that they would not succeed. But in this minimum wage initiative, unskilled workers are taken into account on the basis of trainee pay and, in their case, pay may be below this minimum wage and be only 80% of it.
