ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, arade ledamoter! A shocking blow in Orlando, U.S.A., stopped us. Forty-nine people died and over 50 were wounded in the mass shooting. There is no acceptable explanation for such an act. Violence never results in any good, but only in new problems. Den fruktansvärda attacken i Orlando i Förenta staterna kom som en chock för oss below. Vid masskjutningen dog 49 personer och över 50 sårades. Det finns ingen godtagbar förklaring för en handling av detta slag. Av våld följer aldrig någotgot utan bara nya problem. Den största sorgen drabbar givetvis offrens anhöriga och närstående. På riksdagens vägnar vill jag framföra våra condomeanser till alla anhöriga, närstående och vanner till offren för Attacken i Orlando. Of course, the greatest grief affects the relatives and loved ones of the victims. On behalf of Parliament, I would like to express my condolences to all the relatives, close friends and friends of the victims of the Orlando attack. Vi hedrar offrens where med en me. We honor the memory of the victims with a minute's silence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The answer is now given by Mr Peter Östman and others. the question of the crisis in Finnish agriculture. After the Government's answer, there will be a debate on the interim issue. Mr Östman will take the floor for the first time in the debate. There will then be a rapid part of the debate, allowing group speeches to take up to 5 minutes and other pre-reserved speeches to last up to 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u3	Madam President! The opposition is on the right track today. The plight of farmers is our common concern. It is pointless to demand clean Finnish food for homes, schools or restaurants if we are not able to secure the conditions for food production. At present, the profitability and liquidity of agriculture are weak, as since 2013 producer prices for products have fallen but the costs have not. There are many reasons. The growth in demand for food has stalled on the world market, the stock levels of agricultural products have increased, the oversupply has confused the EU market. The Russian ban on food imports in August 2014 increased the difficulties on the EU market and continues to cause direct income losses in Finland, especially for milk producers. More than ten years ago, EU countries decided to abandon milk quotas in spring 2015. As a result of the withdrawal of quotas, production has increased in many EU countries, as new competition regulations are sought in a difficult market situation and, on the other hand, the farms now have to maintain turnover by increasing production. The price of milk has collapsed. Other agricultural products also have the same fate. The intermediate issue shows that the opposition shares the same picture of the situation. Now is the time to work together to find solutions. We need new markets and support measures both within the EU and at home. Together with food companies, the Government is looking for new export destinations through the Food from Finland growth programme. During ministerial visits, we have also stepped up the opening up of exports to China and Japan, among others. The Government’s key project funding contributes in particular to the administration’s handling of export declarations for meat and dairy products and to the dismantling of export barriers. China in particular is a huge opportunity for Finland, which requires hard work and patience with its complex licensing processes. In the EU-level crisis debate on agriculture, Finland considers it important to support producers affected by the crisis in the event of oversupply. Buying in products does not help because it can even lead to increased production and a prolonged crisis. The aim must be to stabilise the market so that producer price levels can recover to a sustainable level. Over the last year, EU funding and national crisis support have been allocated to agricultural crisis measures totalling EUR 33 million, of which 18 million have been paid to milk and pigmeat producers. In the autumn, some 15 million additional aid will be paid to farms on different production lines on the basis of debt and construction investments. Finland and many other Member States are pushing for new EU funding to directly alleviate the crisis at farm level and to stabilise the market. Finland also proposed speeding up the payment of EU subsidies in 2016. The proposal has been welcomed by the EU Commission and the decision is expected during the summer. The first tranches of compensatory payments for natural and environmental damage can then be paid around 70 million more for the current year than under normal circumstances. Mr President! In Finland, we have taken action. In the spring, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry set up a working group to find out what, in particular, credit and guarantee instruments can do and what else we can do about, for example, loan and structural support arrangements. In its interim report, the working group will present state guarantees for liquidity loans, as well as payment facilities for interest rate subsidies and government loans. On the basis of the proposals of the working group, the Government will seek to facilitate the liquidity situation of the affected facilities. The proposals will be specified, inter alia, in terms of the number of farms targeted and the continuation of the cost implications of the proposals. As part of the concrete crisis measures, the Board of Directors of the Farmers' Pension Institution decided, on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and with the agreement of other ministries, to temporarily reduce the interest rate on late payments of MYEL occupational pension contributions. In its April spending limits debate, the Government decided to raise the national support appropriation for 2017 and 2018 to the 2015 level and cancel the compensatory allowance from 2017. These decisions target a crisis effort of around EUR 34 million for agriculture. In June, Finland will continue to propose to the EU Commission that the share of EU coupled subsidies of direct EU aid in Finland should be kept at the level of 2016 for the period 2017-2020. The change we have proposed would make it easier to coordinate national and EU beef subsidies in particular. In May, the government announced its decision to take further action in the next draft amending budget, once possible EU crisis response has been seen. National crisis response must always be compatible with EU agricultural policy regulations, financial instruments and measures. As part of the key projects in the Government Programme, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is preparing the Government's policy decision on procurement in state food and food services. With this decision, we will promote food purchases that comply with good manufacturing practices in accordance with national legislation. The specific characteristics of domestic production in relation to animal welfare are an integral part of the procurement criteria to be promoted by a decision of principle. These include, for example, the ability to grow poultry without pecking and salmonella-free and, on the other hand, pigs without tail pruning. The state must provide the kind of food that we demand from farmers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u10	Madam President! I would like to thank the corresponding minister for his proper answer and for a very detailed reply. Four opposition groups under the leadership of the Christian Democrats raised this intermediate question for the simple reason that Finnish agriculture is in the worst crisis since the famine of the 19th century. The rural crisis has deepened and is much more serious than, for example, at the end of the last reign, when the present Prime Minister's party threatened to measure the confidence of the then Minister for Agriculture and Forestry in the parliament of Petteri Orpo. According to the Government Programme, the profitability of agriculture will be improved by pre-financing payments, lending, reducing production costs and lowering standards. Instead of pre-payments, farmers have had to wait for late payments and banks have tightened their lending. The dismantling of the standards is progressing slowly, and the vacation system has become weakened.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u11	Madam President! The future of Finnish food production must be safeguarded. Facilitating the plight of agriculture must be a national issue for us. We are talking about clean food, 300,000 jobs, the economy, Finland's self-sufficiency and security of supply. Mr President! The profitability of agriculture has been undermined by lower producer prices, Russian sanctions and counter-constraints, the abolition of milk quotas and other EU policies, excessive bureaucracy and, most recently, delays in payments. For example, the gross income of dairy farms has fallen by about 40% over the year. Spaces live from hand to mouth. The same is true of meat production and grain farms. There will be little reduction in inputs and other costs as the quality of products, animal welfare, the state of the environment and food safety will have to be maintained. The future work has been compromised on farms. Investments have also been frozen. Heavy red tape means endless paperwork and that at the same time there may be a surveillance veterinarian in a cattle building and a support inspector in a field measuring the arias. The pile of bills is growing, and shutting down the power is threatening. There are delays and uncertainties in the payment of subsidies. The collapse of profitability has meant serious mental stress. Striving is an extreme test and finding motivation to try behind the stone. You have to compromise everything in farming families. This is currently the case in most Finnish farms and in all production sectors. Madam President! This cannot continue. First of all, we need a minister. The agricultural crisis package proposed by Mr Tiilikainen in order to ease the current profitability problem. The Centre requires that the Government decide on the crisis package as a matter of urgency. The decisions now taken on state guarantees and the increase in the shortening-free years are a good start. Secondly, we need to reduce the hopelessly heavy bureaucracy quickly and improve the legal protection of the farmer. This is the work that Minister Tiilikainen and the Government have already done. The whole administration needs a change of attitude from a supervisor to a coach and from an administrative focus to a farmer-oriented one. Another key to the farmer’s survival is a functional vacation system and caring for it. Thirdly, there is no longer room for any compromise on the level of aid for active production, on the contrary. The aid policy must be reformed more clearly in terms of value-added agriculture. Fourthly, there is currently a clear imbalance in the food market between producers, the food industry and trade. Studies have shown that more and more purchasing power has been transferred to the market. The Centre demands that all actors in the food chain sit at the same negotiating table. We need to find fairer and fairer trade practices. The farmer must have a share of the value added of the food chain in order to make profitable operations possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u14	Madam President! Throughout the line, Finnish people greatly appreciate the countryside as well as clean, domestic and safe food. The Finns of Peru defend these views and values, whether we are in the opposition or now in the government. Similarly, we give the government our full support to a wide range of agricultural production and entrepreneurship based on family farms. We believe that these matters have an important role to play in our country in terms of employment, food safety and security of supply as a whole. Rural areas are an opportunity now, and in the future rural areas will have great social significance. This should be understood and developed by all parties involved in rural areas and rural areas accordingly. Clean nature, air, water and soil are also a selling asset in food exports. Healthy food is a sales product that is also ready to be paid for. There is growing demand for organic and superfood production in the world. We want to support and facilitate the emergence of new trade links so that production meets the need better. This requires that farmers should also be provided with assistance and services for internationalisation and marketing, as is the case with other entrepreneurs. Mr President! True Finns see that the conditions for small and family farming must be maintained in Finland. A financially viable and forward-looking state responds to society’s challenges by employing, investing and taking good care of the environment and animals. A well-being agricultural entrepreneur is the best protection for animal welfare. The income level of the agricultural population must be consistent with the overall income trend. Structural change and efficiency have reduced jobs in the food sector, but the importance of the sector has not diminished because Finns still want to eat clean, domestic food. We therefore propose that local food be raised to its proper value. The present sitting government has understood the importance of the sector for our country since the government programme and, at the same time, understands the plight of farmers and seeks to address the problems as comprehensively as possible, although it is clear that the government alone will not be able to correct the situation of farmers. The problem is wider, always due to the impact of Russian sanctions on the elimination of milk quotas, among other things, in the EU's common agricultural policy. It is therefore also a question of the problems of the European Union's common agricultural policy. The Minister has already listed a number of measures to be taken. Among other things, the government has proposed to the EU Commission that production aid should remain unchanged as a proportion of EU direct payments until 2020. Several simplification proposals have also been submitted to the Commission. This would provide for a so-called yellow card system, which would partially mitigate the consequences of area defects for farmers. Other sanctions identified in the controls have also been mitigated, giving farmers some flexibility in the allocation of aid. Similarly, there has been an active presence in the EU in order to further moderate the sanctions imposed by cross-compliance infringements on producers. The Finns of Finland demand that the Finnish Rural Authority put its computer program in order so that farmers can receive payments within the agreed timetables. In addition, the Government has advocated a policy decision on procurement in public food and food services. The aim is to promote procurement, the production of which has been carried out in accordance with good national production practices in accordance with Finnish legislation. Similarly, the government has worked to promote food exports. Generally speaking, world production is changing for many reasons, but researchers say that Finland has a good chance of farming in the future, even if the climate changes — we have the ability to adapt to it. Finland can be a significant exporter of food and agriculture as an industry to increase its size. Of course, much remains to be done to improve the position of farmers. A recent working group will consider the use of different loan and support arrangements. It must be said, however, that the plight of agriculture has worsened over the years. It is not the result of this government alone. Unfortunately, this distress is partly due to the idea and attitude that Finland as a whole should not be kept inhabited or that Finland might not even have to produce its food if we could import it at a lower price. We need a change in this attitude, and it cannot be achieved by government intervention alone. Imported food is also cheap until the importer has acquired a dominant position. And as a result of a variety of crises, imports can stop — in practice, they come through the Baltic Sea. But finally, Mr President, I would like to remind you of the fact that, despite all the criticisms that have been expressed, the government has allocated money to national subsidies for agriculture and horticulture, to the same natural handicaps. In addition, both the government and the Finns are convinced that during the autumn session, farmers will still be relieved by the government. And with these words, our group will give all its support to the farmers in our country and also to the sitting government and to the valuable work of the farmers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u15	Madam President! You cannot outsource Finnish agriculture and the food industry. The crisis in agriculture and food production is real and the situation of farms is historically weak. Hardly ever before has the future of Finnish agriculture looked as uncertain as it is now. It is up to our decision-makers to ensure that farmers' faith in the future is restored and that there is sufficient generational change. Finnish farmers have been forced to pay for world politics because of sanctions and Russian counter-impositions. Market prices for agricultural products have collapsed since Russian exports stopped. It is the European Union's duty to compensate farmers much better for the financial losses caused by sanctions, especially since, despite warnings, the EU itself mixed up the milk market by removing milk quotas that curb overproduction. No sector with no economic buffers, but rather debt, will last for long in a situation where incomes continue to fall but even costs increase. This is the current picture of domestic agriculture. In this situation, it is justified to seek solutions to the acute cash and liquidity crisis in farms. However, it is clear that domestic food production cannot rely on crisis packages or on repeated additional budgets. The solution must be sought through the simplification of the European Union's common agricultural policy, the dismantling of national bureaucracy and the reduction of the overall cost structure. Madam President! The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party has listened to farmers and experts. We put together the feedback and published an agricultural rescue program. In the programme, we are presenting proposals for measures to improve both the survival of farmers and the economic situation. We want to simplify the system of agricultural subsidies, because farmers must be able to concentrate on the essentials of producing clean food and promoting animal welfare with minimum bureaucracy. With the experience of the veterinarian, I can say that the welfare of animal keepers is also the best guarantee for the well-being of livestock. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party wishes to pay particular attention to the well-being of farmers at work. In 2013, Paula Risikko, Minister of Social Affairs and Health, set up a working group to find ways to promote the mental well-being of farmers. The good functioning of the holiday system is essential in this respect. We have ourselves built a complex support system. Control of its errors with inconsistent interpretations and problems with the payment of subsidies are a key cause of farmers' exhaustion and partly the cause of their economic problems. It is inexcusable that farmers do not receive payments due to them in due time. The losses of aid always concern the whole package of aid subject to cross-compliance. No wonder the checks on subsidies are a source of fear and stress among farmers. This has to change. Control of cross-compliance needs to be taken in a more advisory direction. Farmers must be given better opportunities to correct their mistakes, for example, within two weeks without fear of losing aid, unless there is a condemnation of willfulness. The cost structure of agriculture must be printed down, and the interpretation of the effectiveness of harvesting must be tightened up as a condition for payment of aid. In the future, aid needs to be more targeted at active producers. Madam President! The Coalition Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes the reassessment of the tax bases for property tax on agricultural production buildings and also supports the reassessment of the Electricity Market Act as to whether well-meaning legislation imposes too high an investment obligation on electricity grid companies and hence excessive electricity transmission prices. For the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party, the countryside and the work done there is valuable. In Finland, domestic animals are well cared for and they are not fed antibiotics in vain. In crop cultivation we use only a fraction of chemicals compared to many European countries. Our choices matter. In order to enjoy clean domestic food in the future, we must now begin to favour domestic food in public procurement at the latest. Finnish food produced safely and ethically will be an even greater market power in the future, but the increase in exports to which the government is aiming requires better marketing and sales expertise and presence in the world's marketplaces. Madam President! The Coalition Party's parliamentary group will do its utmost to ensure that domestic family-oriented agriculture, rural enterprise and the food chain based on fair rules of play survive this crisis as a winner.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u16	Madam President! The origins of the SDP are in the countryside. We're a party for the liberation of small farmers, torpedoes. In the opinion of the SDP, a hard-working and believing entrepreneur also needs spokespersons in Finland in 2016. Today, torpedoes are young producers and small businesses in rural areas. Farmers must be freed from today’s absurd agricultural bureaucracy. The late payment of agricultural subsidies is a domestic problem in which the sitting government has jurisdiction. The government, whose top theme is the dismantling of red tape, is itself involved in red tape, so that many producers are already thinking about putting a note on the door. For many, bankruptcy is not a matter of choice. It is a necessity. Why was the government unable to deal in time with a problem that has been completely in the hands of ourselves and the government? There is a common concern about the survival of farms. The SDP did not take part in the intermediate issue because the government has announced that it is seeking solutions. And now we expect the government to do the real thing. The profitability of agriculture has deteriorated rapidly throughout the EU. The EU's sanctions and the Russian counter-impositions are reflected in the agricultural situation. The market restrictions imposed by Russia exacerbated the problems of Finnish milk and pigmeat producers in particular. With the abolition of milk quotas, many countries have increased their production at significantly lower prices than Finland. Finland cannot compete on price but on quality. Mr President! Sustainable and profitable food production is a very important issue for the SDP. Domestic food brings bread to many tables. The food chain provides work and livelihood for Finns, including those in the food industry and transport. Without profitable primary production, the entire food chain and jobs will be jeopardised. Mr President! Finnish food is very safe in international comparisons, and the level should also be maintained in the future. Animal welfare must not be compromised; on the contrary, the reform of the Animal Protection Act must be carried out quickly and with ambitious objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u21	Madam President! Finns appreciate the domesticity of food. In many ways, our food is more responsible than the European average. Ethical and environmental standards are taken seriously. Of course, there is always room for improvement. This must also be reflected in the support schemes. Agriculture is a specific area of business, where the welfare of both people, the environment and animals is central. Effective relief and support schemes are essential for all parties involved. According to Sitra’s rural survey in 2011, Finns want better access to organic and local food, in particular, not only to good taste and health but also to the ethical and environmental quality of food. In addition, the green economy and diverse business activities are at the top of the citizens’ wish list. Agricultural subsidies are not fully targeted. For example, the environmental compensation scheme would like to involve several times as many producers as the under-budgeted budget of the Ministry allows. For years, farmers have been encouraged to take action to protect water, and when they chose them diligently, the money earmarked for environmental compensation under the rural development programme 2014-2020 was totally inadequate. Too much bureaucracy has not been clarified, quite the contrary. We're wasting government money. Farmers will also pay many times more for the consequences. The application and monitoring procedures must be rationalised in such a way that they are appropriate, reasonable and effective. Mr President! Finnish agriculture is in a serious crisis. That's the sum of a lot of factors. The difficult distortion in the food market is that even a reasonable price paid for food is not enough to cover the salary of the producer for his work. Here's the place to fix it. Food’s domesticity and ethics are appreciated, but it is often difficult to find out about food products. The responsibility of production, with the exception of organic production, is hardly visible at the counter. Food trade in Finland is one of the most concentrated in the EU, which has produced higher food prices for Finns, more floor area for stores and longer commercial trips than the European average. Producers and the food industry are not able to cope with the highly concentrated retail trade in the food value chain, which determines and breaks the biggest slice of the price paid by the consumer. Agriculture and the entire food chain must be adapted to meet not only consumers' wishes but also the government's own targets for circular and bioeconomy and profitability. Despite significant self-sufficiency rates, the supply of domestic agricultural products is not fully in line with demand. This makes no sense in the midst of the profitability crisis. The margins for organic products are considerably higher than usual. Yet, organic oats are imported into domestic mills from abroad every year when the domestic stock runs out. It is almost impossible for the consumer to find organic meat even if he wants to. There is a determined need for more domestic legumes not only for food for consumers but also for the improvement of livestock production, trade balance and the circular economy based on imported protein. The degree of Finnish food processing has been developed, but not enough. We need a programme in which science, trade, industry and farmers work together to promote food product development and exports. The current system is more supportive of bulk production. That's not our leverage. We must invest in high-quality brands, animal welfare standards and products that guide consumers' eating habits in a healthier direction. Farmers should be able to choose a wide range of products as a basis for their livelihood. Ecosystem services, the production of renewable energy, such as biogas, and the drive towards self-sufficient agriculture are today's visions, the need for the near future and the viability of agriculture. A significant reduction in domestic food production would also be a major disadvantage in terms of security of supply. Even security of supply will not work unless agriculture greens and tries to get rid of oil dependence, among other things. Mr President! We need rapid, temporary solutions. In the long term, the future of agriculture will require a major overhaul of policy. Domestic production and the food chain must be put on a sustainable footing in order to support our food producers economically as well. This must be taken care of jointly. Mr President! The Group of the Greens supports the motion of censure tabled by Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u22	Mr President! Finnish agriculture is in a crisis of profitability and farmers' incomes have fallen by an average of 40% — 40%. The situation is unreasonable. The farmer also deserves a fair wage for the work he has done. However, the crisis of profitability in agriculture is not just about the fallen income of farmers. This crisis affects us all indirectly. A viable agriculture is a prerequisite for a viable and job-creating food industry. In addition to farmers, Finnish fields, barns and pig farms employ the entire food industry chain from slaughterhouses and mills to the cashier and restaurant. Without viable agriculture, consumers will not be able to buy and eat Finnish food. Without agriculture, we will be in trouble in the event of a possible crisis, because pine cones do not fill the stomach. Mr President! In May, we presented a wide-ranging programme of the left-wing Union of thanks for saving agriculture. Let's hope the government finds time to get to know our performances. The outlook for agricultural development requires both measures to address the acute crisis of profitability and to identify longer-term developments. The agricultural crisis will not be solved by additional aid alone, but the farms now need support to cope with the acute crisis. We need a bridge over a dark stream. We on the left do not want to increase the actual permanent agricultural aid, but, for example, a new type of adjustment loan and the deferral of payments for existing loans could help farms over a difficult period of time. The crisis package proposed by the Ministry is now acceptable, but unfortunately the centre-driven government did not accept the interim agricultural crisis package presented by the Ministry in its spring amending budget. You can't help but wonder what's going on. The government has forgotten the poor, it is no news, but the forgetfulness of the farmers of the centre-driven government can be regarded as historic. Despite a great deal of talk, not even massive red tape burdening farmers has been done much, and the delay in the payment of subsidies that has put farms at the edge of the gap is incomprehensible. However, crisis support measures alone are not enough to remedy the situation in the longer term. Ways are needed to increase demand for domestic food. There is likely to be an opportunity for future procurement law to favour local food in day-care centres, schools and workplaces, and that should be taken advantage of. All actors in society should take responsibility for domestic food production: there is a need for a broad commitment from different parts of society to favour Finnish food. I appeal to companies, trade unions, organisations and individual citizens: buy domestic food, prefer Finnish food. At least I like to eat domestic food, and I'm not the only one. The labelling requirements for food must be specified in such a way as to include not only the country of manufacture but also the country of origin of the main raw materials, since the shop cannot buy a domestic product if it is not recognized. In addition to domestic demand, exports are essential for the profitability of agriculture. The food industry must be supported in opening up export markets. Finland must strive to strengthen high-quality environmental and animal protection standards at EU level, as the playing field needs to be smooth so that other EU countries do not gain competitive advantage from lower environmental and animal protection standards. Finland can only survive in international competition by quality. Mr President! Sustainable agriculture meets ecological, social and economic requirements. With agriculture, we can influence the future of the world. Food causes one fifth of Finnish climate emissions, and with farm solutions we can make a significant contribution to carbon footprint and water load. Adapting to climate change requires action from all of us, including farmers, and farms must be supported through these changes, for example in terms of circular economy solutions and small energy production. Mr President! Finnish agriculture must be saved, and I do not trust that the government will do so. That's why I'm in favour of a representative. The motion of censure by Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u23	Madam President, värderade fru talman! Last week I got a call from a fellow farmer. His condition could be called a model farm for Finnish family culture. There are 110 hectares of land and 70 cows. All the key figures in production are top-notch. The farm is actively involved in machinery cooperation to keep costs down. Debt is reasonable because it is about eight years since the barn was built. The farmer himself has training in the field, is 40 years old and works full-time on the farm with one employed worker. His wife works outside the farm, and their three children go to school. So we should be doing great, but what was his message? The milk account has fallen sharply and agricultural subsidies have decreased. Almost a quarter of turnover has disappeared. Feed and fertilizers have become more expensive, and the only reason that family farming can continue to operate is because the bank agrees to postpone the mortgages to the future. His message was unambiguous: 'Matts, this cannot continue.' Mr. Government, please react now before it is too late. That is what we want to say on this issue. Finland’s agriculture is now in an acute crisis. That is why the government made a fundamental mistake when, in the second amending budget of the year, it did not reserve money for a crisis package for agriculture without delay. The measures are now postponed until autumn, which in practice means that Finland will not have the negotiations required by the crisis package completed with the EU until next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u24	Madam President! "We will not accept that farmers will be paid in the foreseeable With these words, the representative of the Parliament, the current Minister for Agriculture Tiilikainen defended Finnish peasants in Parliament in November 2014 and was concerned about the production of domestic food. Despite the responsibility of the government, the payment of subsidies is now 'in the future'. Farmers are still waiting for part of the subsidies to be paid for the bills due for 2015, not to mention the debts of the inputs for this spring’s harvest. In my region of North Savo, 75% of farmers are in agricultural debt, less than 40% have negotiated financial arrangements with the bank and nearly one third have postponed the repayments of loans. The electricity has been cut off from several farms because of the backlogs. Kiuruvesi, Pielavesi and Keitele have distributed food vouchers to families who are struggling with financial problems. The liquidity crisis in agriculture will be repeated when machine contractors, for example, expect when farmers will be able to pay for the work done to them. On top of the other pain, the cooping of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry with Kemera support threatens the employment and seedlings of loggers. In many villages, economic activity depends on farms and forest farms and their reflective effects. Madam President! A farmer’s tractor was fitted with a sign with a tractor march: “Give us our daily bread.” Perhaps the farmer wanted to remind you that food is not only about food but also about the livelihood and well-being of the whole person. Delayed payments have been the last straw in the face of a drastic 40% reduction in entrepreneurial income on farms. In these circumstances, we need to improve the functioning of the holiday, not weaken, and we need to put an end to the pressure on working time. Activities related to well-being and well-being must be supported. Agriculture is now in such deep distress that even small hand-lifts from other policy sectors would be more than necessary. As early as summer 2015, I believe the Christian Democrats were the first in Finland to make public procurement conditional on compliance with at least the Finnish animal welfare criteria. Similarly, we have put forward initiatives to promote the use of biogas on farms for heating, electricity production and also for fuel. I noticed that Prime Minister Sipilä promised bright prospects for biogas in his party speech. However, a few weeks ago, the government gave a negative answer to our group's written question on the abolition of the power tax on biogas cars. At the moment, biogas plants and their refuelling sites are not being created on farms when there are not enough gas cars and, on the other hand, gas cars are not being bought when there are not enough refuelling sites. Prime Minister, implement the KD's initiatives, and the talks of the Assembly will then become concrete. Madam President! The Christian Democrats point out that this issue is not just a matter for one professional group, the farmers. This is about Finnish food, what each of us has on the plate every day. It is also a question of security of supply and self-sufficiency in the future. This future is now seriously threatened. We do not demand that the government resolve the Ukrainian crisis, the Russian sanctions, climate change, overproduction of milk in the EU and global food production distortions. No, we Christian Democrats are simply calling on the government to safeguard the future of Finnish food production and to take the crisis seriously. Finnish expertise has already developed high-processing foods aimed at international markets, and Christian Democrats see a lot of export potential there. In order to continue along this path, we need viable domestic agriculture and clean primary food production. We hope that the Government will share this vision and will act accordingly. Madam President! I'm in favour of a representative. Mr Östman's motion of censure on the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u25	Next, Minister Tiilikainen, three minutes, then the Prime Minister has the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u26	Mr President! I would like to thank the parliamentary groups for a very factual and respectful debate – that is what it was all about. Speakers of the Government Groups Leppä, Mattila and Eestilä reviewed the plans and measures that the Government has already taken and what it will do to alleviate the plight of agriculture. It must be said that it is precisely this increase in market profits, both by promoting exports and by increasing the use of food in Finland, that is certainly the most important and most important of these activities. In addition, as I said in my speech, there is also a need for support measures at both EU and national level and for cutting red tape. The opposition's contributions were also very constructive, and I thank you for the broad understanding of the plight of farmers. Representative Wallin of the SDP stressed just as Mr Leppäk stressed the importance of the food chain for employment in Finland as a whole. Mr Sarkkinen, the representative of the Left Alliance, also spoke about this same issue. It is good that this is recognised that it is not just a question of farmers' livelihoods but of a very large part of the Finnish economy and employment, which relies on the fact that farming in Finland is profitable. Mr Halmemenpää, thank you for acknowledging that Finnish farming is much better for animal welfare and the environment than the world average. I believe that the farmers will appreciate what you have said. There is also a common concern about the concentration of trade and fair income distribution between you and the government, and we are working to correct this through dialogue. Mr Nylund of the RKP, your concrete example from that farm level shows that the opposition, as well as the government groups, is also familiar with the specific situation of the farmer. As far as the picture of the situation is concerned, there is no doubt in this whole Chamber, and I thank you for promising support for the crisis measures planned by the government and coming to this Chamber in the future, but I would like to emphasise that when farmers' incomes have been lost on an annual basis by means of market losses, hundreds of millions will not be corrected by means of an additional budget alone. It's an important factor. The Government has decided that the crisis package in the next amending budget will come, it will be prepared, but in order to achieve market returns back to the level to which they belong, everything must be done with better criteria and orientation in public procurement and with strong efforts to promote exports.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u27	Then Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes too, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u28	Madam President! We in the government are very aware of the difficult situation in agriculture. Agriculture has been in difficulties, particularly as a result of poor farm profitability, sanctions and poor market conditions. The situation is unsustainable both economically and, above all, humanly. I fully share people's concerns and pain on farms. It's really hard to keep up with the producers. Thank you to Parliament for your support for what the government is doing. In the Government Programme, we committed ourselves to increasing the profitability of food production and improving the trade balance of the food sector by EUR 500 million. We will decide on additional measures for agriculture in the next amending budget in the autumn, once we have seen the possible EU response to the crisis. The Government seeks solutions to the acute financial crisis in the farms through state guarantees and the extension of loan periods. We must also call for joint effective action on the part of the EU to facilitate the acute crisis in agriculture. This is one of the things I will discuss tomorrow with the President of France and the Prime Minister. At the same time, we must ensure that the EU makes it possible to take the necessary national measures to facilitate the crisis. Mr President! The Government also aims to promote increased use of biogas. I believe that the day will no longer be far away when biogas is transported on farms on its own. Some make it electricity and heat, and this, as the Minister said, is of great interest to farmers. Although the situation of farms is difficult, it is good to see, however, that there is still a desire for investment in agriculture. In the government, we will do everything we can to strengthen the confidence of farmers in the future and to bring about a change of direction. High-quality, clean and locally produced domestic food is appreciated among Finns. Food production is also an important issue for self-sufficiency and a safety factor. Mr Östman referred to the objectives of the centre. Yes, when you read the paper carefully, the fourth objective is to find the bioeconomy and under it domestic food production, renewable energy and increased use of industrial wood. These are also found in the Government Programme. Mr President! Thank you to the opposition for supporting the demand for mass food for Finnish production criteria, the dismantling of standards, the simplification of controls and now this safeguarding of working capital funding for farms. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u29	Before the debate, I would like to speak to Mr Orpo for one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u30	Madam President! Agriculture is a domestic issue, therefore a few words. The Government is therefore well aware of the difficult situation in which Finnish food production and the food chain are located. That is why we have unanimously decided, in the context of the amending budget, to prepare the crisis package for autumn. Through my future role: We have about 90 million undivided reserves, which indicates how tight this economic situation is. I therefore stress all the other measures in the European Union, deregulation, increased demand for and use of domestic food, including in public procurement, countless different measures which I believe Minister Tiilikainen will take as Minister. This will provide immediate action on a broad front to improve the situation of Finnish food production and the Finnish food chain, which is serious. There's no way out of it. We will return to this financial contribution to the crisis package in the budget debate which will begin in August, but a number of measures will indeed be needed by then.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u31	Then let's go to the debat. There are already a number of people who have signed up for it. Congressman Leppä will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u32	Madam Speaker! It is great to see that all parties in this Chamber agreed that Finnish food production should be secured. It's a very big value. National consensus is extremely important here. However, I would like to make a few observations on the contributions made by the two opposition parties. There were contradictions that we cannot implement at the same time. We can't be at the same time blackmailing and making things easier. Nor can we be at the same time promoting food production and increasing the share of uncultivated land. This is not just a success, and that is why it is worth specifying this type of issue in your future policies. But then, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister about the number of regulatory issues, as many speakers have now raised the issue of milk quotas and other EU quotas, that is to say, quantity regulation. Every time the European Union has made regulation easier, every time the food market is confused in Europe and every time European food production has become less competitive. Is there any change to this now, and whether, Prime Minister, the discussions may be on this issue,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u33	Thank you, Madam Speaker! It has been said that it is unheard of that the first signatory of the interim question does not receive the first speech. But sometimes it has to happen. — I would like to say to the Prime Minister that when I referred to the five-point strategy programme in the centre, perhaps that choice of words was unfortunate when I spoke about agriculture at such a title level. I meant farming. I'm sure you won't find it at the title level in your strategic program, but I'm sure you'll find it in the texts. Well, it was a small mistake, however, compared to what is my question. I wonder why the government did not bring, knowing that agriculture is in a crisis as deep as it is, a crisis package already exists in the context of the amending budget. As I said in my own speech, now it goes that way next spring before farmers get this money into their accounts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u34	Mr Östman, sometimes even the President makes mistakes, at least for me.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u35	Madam President! Yes, I suppose today we are faced with the question of whether it is more profitable to become an agricultural inspector than an agricultural entrepreneur. I wish things weren't quite this different. But now, when we talk a lot about these public procurements and the government has also taken this as a project, we can also do it with a much lower profile, so that we do not need a special project, but we who are authorised here can do or can encourage other delegates to make the local food strategies, local food decisions, to take the local food strategy into the local food strategy. Here I have the website of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, which collects those municipalities that have already made decisions in their municipality, even if it is a mile limit for potatoes or meat or milk. Or an example is the good North Ostrobothnian municipality, the municipality of Vaala, which has for a long time made such decisions as civil servants. This is the message I would like to take to Finnish municipalities and municipal decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u36	Madam President! The first signatory to the interim question, Mr Östman, whom I appreciated, was asked by the Assembly and why you do not pursue these issues. That is why the Coalition Party has put in place an agricultural rescue programme, so that at the moment a new agricultural programme is being planned in the European Union. If not now a party program and attention is paid to the main problems, what is meant to influence it, when should it be done? Probably after the program is back on and the same bureaucracy is on. Just before this part-session, I received a call from a colleague who had been asked by a vet for official assistance in the case of animal welfare. There was therefore no help because the journey was long, it could not have been carried out during the working day, and then there were so many tasks of monitoring these cross compliance. Has administration and control now become the golden calf that is bowed down, and the welfare of farmers and even animal welfare are left behind — that is the question, Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u37	Madam President! It is clear from all the speeches here that the crisis in agriculture is much more than just the delay in agricultural subsidies. When we heard experts in the Agriculture Section, it became clear that the delay is largely due to the fact that the information systems are not in order. Now that there are two agriculture ministers, both former and current, could you tell us how this has come about so that it was not fixed in time? Thank you for now having EUR 900000 in the amending budget to put these systems in order, but can you tell us why this 900000 did not come in 2015 or 2016?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u38	Madam President! It is quite right that the government should start demanding that Finnish production criteria be taken into account in public procurement when food is purchased. I would also like to hear some guidelines on how to take account of increasing the share of organic food in public procurement. Many professionals and politicians in the industry are careful not to make organic production better than conventional production, but, for example, more than 60% of municipal decision-makers would also be prepared to increase the share of organic food in public food purchases. The Government has announced that 20% of arable land by 2020 would be organic. There must be some concrete measures to be taken to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u39	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. From a respectful attitude toward the intermission and taking this concern seriously. We'll wait for action. New challenges for agriculture, on the one hand, and opportunities, namely climate change, increased green production, circular economy, small energy, productivity improvements and the development of new food innovations, on the other hand, require basic research, innovation and economic incentives. Unfortunately, the government is cutting off the Natural Resources Centre and other research activities, not with a cheese planer, but with a scythe. This is a contradiction. Circular economy and decentralised energy production are an important opportunity for farmers to increase self-sufficiency, save on inputs and generate by-products. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how we intend to make concrete progress on these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u40	Madam President! I too would particularly like to thank Mr Tiilika, who listened carefully to all the opposition groups and the parliamentary groups of the government parties. I would also like to say that the group contribution from the centre was very good. Any of the opposition parties or the signatories to the interim question could have used it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u41	Madam President! Prime Minister, you said that the day will no longer be far away when the farm's biogas is transported on its own. I fear that that day is still a long way off, because the government's own measures do not support the fact that we have biogas production at the level at which it is in many other European countries. In Germany and Italy, for example, gas refuelling points are about 30 per cent of all points, while in Finland we have so much less than one per cent. In Sweden, there are about 50,000 biogas cars in traffic, barely 2,000 in Finland. The government does not want to abolish the power tax on biogas cars, which would speed up the purchase of biogas cars, and when there are no cars, neither will these refuelling points be created. The government also does not want energy production aid to be used to build its own biogas plant if that biogas is sold over its own needs. It is a bit the same that if milk were to be used more than its own farm needs, there would be no aid whatsoever. I can't believe the Ministry's policies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u42	Madam Speaker! Mr Eestilä referred to that programme, a good programme as such. But I will continue to ask and continue to ask Mr Nylund's question when I understand that Minister Tiilikainen said months ago that there would have been a crisis package for this amending budget, which is to say that he had a central parliamentary group behind him. Then why didn't the government bring it here? Was it perhaps the case that the assembly prevented the inclusion of that crisis package in this amending budget?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u43	Madam President! It feels very good that, across party boundaries, agriculture is valued and wanted to be defended, and this has not always been the case in this Chamber. I would therefore appeal to the government to give money to Makera in order to invest in new types of production, renewable energy and so on, to support it always together and not to call it tinkering. A robot to a farm is just as valuable as a robot to other production facilities. I would also like to see no message coming out of this Chamber that the Finnish support system should be driven down or that the Finnish way of production pollutes the environment or is not sustainable for animal welfare. However, this message is also very often sent from this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u44	Mr President! The agricultural crisis is real and the farms are going bankrupt. There are, of course, many reasons, but it is necessary to recognise that there are also six domestic reasons: farmers are simply not being paid because of the complexity of these information systems. The payments have been delayed and the situation is fatal for farmers, because for farmers, support for farmers is in practice what a worker pays. This situation is absurd. We in Finland want domestic food, we want to support domestic agriculture, we spend a lot of European tax money on domestic food production, but these subsidies cannot be passed on to farmers in order to alleviate the plight of farms. The SDP has wanted to give the government time to remedy this situation, we are patient with this, but, Mr Tiilikainen, can you now promise that these information system problems will be resolved and these late payments will be brought under control?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u45	Mr President! There is a common concern, and I hope that the government will step up, especially in these fast-term activities, that the payment problems can be resolved so that there are no disproportionate situations. Then, in the longer term, we need to think about this situation, how we can develop the natural profitability of agriculture so that the farmer gets a decent price for his product. That is the essence of everything that a farmer can find products in which he gets good profitability and the market works better. And here we should perhaps be a little more vigorous — the Minister did raise the issue of dialogue and some action on this side — to think about how we can increase the value added and develop products so that we can get a better price directly from the product, so that subsidies, for example, do not go directly to the price of the fields. Should the aid policy be reformed in such a way that it would be more profitable to grow new products and new varieties that might also give farmers a better direct price? As an example, when I first met those who developed the oats, they said that Finland did not really find its own oat protein, nor did it find its own bean protein.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u46	Mr President! I was given the opportunity to take part in the tractor march from Sipoo to Helsinki, and it was really time to hear the stories of Finnish farmers about the current state of Finnish agricultural production and also the problems associated with the payment of these subsidies. These are exactly the solutions that Finnish farmers now want from the government. We need both immediate action over this difficult period and then long-term solutions for developing Finnish agricultural production. I too would have liked to have heard the answer from the government as to why the government was not prepared to take a decision on this crisis package in connection with this amending budget now under discussion. And are you prepared, as one of the means, to reflect on the new type of adaptation loan proposed by the Left Alliance, which would allow farms to overcome the acute economic crisis but would also support this development of longer-term production?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u47	Mr President! It has been a joy and comfort in this debate to hear that concern for Finnish agriculture is common to all of us. Agricultural production is a vital prerequisite for every sovereign state. There is no real independence without our own agriculture, our own domestic food. It is certainly clear that this appreciation of the agricultural entrepreneur goes across all the party lines and the opposition-government boundaries. It is extremely regrettable that this crisis has created a situation in which we are now, as it were, in which we are: the continuing increase in EU bureaucracy in the long term, the abolition of milk quotas, the different information systems problems and then these Russian sanctions. But it has become clear here that every party, and the government in that vanguard, has already made clear plans here on how to correct it, because nobody is satisfied with it, and that will be corrected. Help is on the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u48	Värderade fru talman! Factum är att det finländska jordbruket är i kris, och nu behöver våra jordbrukare inte bara medlidande utan nu behöver de konkreta åtgärder, och de åtgärderna måste komma från regeringens håll. Det är ganska patettiskt att vi har en location där center leder Finlands regering och jordbruket står i den största kris det har haft på hemskt länge.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u49	Madam Speaker! This requirement by the Centre to comply with its own Government Programme is a coherent policy. Representative, last season we made the same demand from the opposition. If we do not now impose that requirement on ourselves, this is a rather strange situation. Last season it was simply not implemented, and now we cannot afford it, as was said in that group statement. But we have to remember that this government has only been sitting for a year. It could not, could not, be able to do all the things in its excellent program. And as Mr Terho has just said here, for example, they will be implemented. That's where we're going. It's obvious. The Parliament Group in the Centre Party wanted to show and present this demand fairly here, as it did last season.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u50	Madam President! As has been heard here, agriculture is now facing exceptionally serious problems and has been led, among other things, by reduced producer prices and changes in the amounts of aid and payment schedules, Russian import bans and the elimination of EU milk quotas. Young farmers and those who have invested in production facilities in recent years are particularly affected. As revenue dwindles, expenditure increases, liquidity declines, a stack of payments there at the corner of the district grows. Everyone knows what is at the end of the road: additional debt as long as it is possible and then bankruptcy. It is now absolutely necessary to find ways of dealing with this difficult situation for farmers, and that is why it is a very good thing that the government has taken this issue seriously and that crisis package has promised. Finnish agricultural production must be secured in a sustainable and long-term way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u51	Madam President! The land-economyers are really in a tight spot. A number of reasons have been mentioned in this Chamber today, but one, perhaps the most significant of them, has not been mentioned: overproduction. As long as there is more production than demand, it is almost impossible for producers to obtain a proper price for their products. Agricultural aid is good, but it does not always lead to the desired outcome. What is significant is that: In Sweden, farmers do better than in Finland, even though they pay less subsidies than they do here. With better conditions for farming in Sweden than in Finland, how is it possible that a Finnish farmer can afford to pay more rent for a field than a Swedish farmer?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u52	Mr President! Of course, it would be good if the representatives did some homework. In the previous speech, they had been forgotten. We do not have overproduction in any of the key agricultural products. It is found in many products, e.g. In beef too, 80%, and this cannot be the reason why we have such a difficult agricultural situation. Yes, there are many factors. One is this situation of sanctions in Russia. It would be reasonable for the whole of society to be involved in this compensation for the loss of these farmers, and it is therefore absolutely necessary for the government to complete the solutions in its own programme to alleviate the plight of agriculture. Agriculture is currently in the most difficult profitability crisis in the EU. Farmers’ faith in the future is not assured by any talk; action is needed now. Of course, it is a good thing that there is no confrontation in this Chamber this time. That is a good thing, and I believe that it will be welcomed among farmers. But now is the time for action, and hopefully the whole Parliament will support these future actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u53	Mr President! Concerns about the position of the Finnish primary producer are common, as has become clear. The only way to improve profitability in a sustainable way is to make sure that the market works properly and well. And, in fact, Rantakangas said that now is the time for action, not for speech. Mr Wallin asked a very fundamental question: why does the one who does the most get the least? And the answer to this is that there is one person in this chain who has too strong a position. Minister Tiilikainen, I'm sure you know — it's a trading position. Now I'm gonna ask you where those things are. You said you were engaged in a dialogue. The previous government took historic steps to implement a fair competition programme under the leadership of Minister Ihalainen, enabling a market share of more than 30% to enter a dominant position, creating tools to address this. Minister, what are you going to do about this? Where are the acts that Mr Rantakangas has called for to be achieved?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u54	Madam President! It's great that the government has a lot of things they're doing. It's great to have the Minister. Tiilikainen has made efforts for the future so that we open new markets for Finnish food exports. However, I would have asked Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister Tiilikainen what efforts have been made to lift the Russian sanctions against Finland. There is obviously no ban on these negotiations, and it would be great to hear how Finland seeks to promote the possibility of discussing Russia with a view to lifting food sanctions. Perhaps we should make a few trips to Russia instead of China when we know that it will take years to open up the Chinese market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u55	Mr President! I trust that in a few months' time the government will bring this crisis package and that it will be able to ease the acute distress, which is great and deep. But will the government be able to influence the European Union's agricultural policy, the common agricultural policy, to bring about a clear change? For twenty years in the EU, I have been following the policy of the EU in general, and every time there have been agricultural reforms — every few years — this development has gone into a more bureaucratic, more complex and more complex situation for farmers. We can no longer afford to go this way, but we must bring about a change, a permanent change, to this agricultural policy. The EU is the most important factor because it has been given the power to decide. Do you see that this is a chance to change?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u56	Madam President! With the opposition and the government very much in agreement on this situation, then, Prime Minister, would it not be high time to invite the whole government to a crisis session and sit down so long as the government’s heart is softened and the money for the farmers’ arrears is dug under a rock and paid immediately? In Sweden, in a similar situation, Sweden acted differently, immediately chose in its own budget the transitional money from which subsidies were paid to agriculture on time, and then the future EU funds will be directed. I have to ask why everything in Sweden is always easier. Because there is a healthy national sense of self-esteem and a healthy culture of self-handling without the fear of the EU's lords. When the Swedish minister of responsibility was asked whether you are aware that you are not looking well at your actions in the EU, the answer was very clear: if the note comes, then we will deal with it, but now we will make sure that the farmer gets what is his job. We would also expect such action from the Finnish Government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u57	Madam President! As has been heard in this Chamber, the causes of this crisis are diverse, and I understand that the weather conditions, which were very bad last summer, cannot be solved by the government, but I hope that action will be taken to resolve this acute cash crisis on farms. It is good to hear that the crisis package is coming, but unfortunately it will be mercilessly late. From the perspective of the Finnish producer, it is positive that the visibility of domestic food has improved in stores, for example. Finns have also noticed that only by buying domestic food will production remain in Finland. In shops, the domestic product stands out clearly and it is easy for the consumer to choose. Direct sales from farms and new transmission channels without intermediaries are also on the rise, which is a good thing. In food supply, municipalities and the government must increase the degree of domesticity and local production. For example, in schools, day-care centres and services for the elderly, people also deserve domestic food, and that is what I hope we all make an effort to achieve.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u58	Mr Eestilä and Mr Nylund before the ministers can answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u59	Madam President! There's a lot of money going on in agriculture. The problem is mainly how much is left in the farmer’s purse, in a way, to pay the bills and to discharge the obligations that come to him. In total, nearly 8.3 billion will be spent on the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 of Mainland Finland. Are we now absolutely sure that this is the right part for the farmer? Another major problem in society — and we must all recognise it — is that trade is concentrated in us and that the role of the farmer in this food chain and in that form of income is weak. Then we will be dealing with a dominant position. It's not an illegal state, but it's illegal to abuse it. It contains a very strong barrier to entry into the market. Then you can start talking about the shelf space and when. Is it, Minister Tiilikainen and Prime Minister, that perhaps through the competition law we can find a solution to these problems, or is it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u60	Madam President! First a brief comment to Mr Vartia: About 90% of Swedish agricultural production takes place south of Hanko. There is nothing strange about their need for less support. The second point concerns the scarcity of money, of course. We are in financial difficulties and we have a deficit, but the government's second amending budget was a choice of values. Now there are 144 million at the bottom of Terrafame’s chest. Most, the majority, are still there at the turn of the year, and the officials of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry are unable to get started, because they have not been given the authority. That's the truth. Thirdly, I have read the Minister The interim report of the financing working group set up by the brick block. That's very good. It's cheap to the government. Can we trust that we will now begin the legislative work there, that we will receive a year of deferral of loans and state guarantees? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u61	And Minister Tiilikainen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u62	Mr President! Let me start with this last question by Nylund: Yes, the proposals of the Financial Task Force on state guarantees for crisis loans and the granting of additional abbreviated years will start with the preparation of legislation. That's the government's policy. This is for the attention of all those who asked for this. Perhaps this was over in that opening speech, but this was in response to everyone who asked about the crisis loans. The issues proposed by this working party will be prepared without delay. Mr Leppä asked about this EU regulation. There is hardly a return to quotas, but I have to say, when you listen to colleagues across Europe, that perhaps even the fiercest liberators of the agricultural markets have said that something should be gained. When it comes to concrete, I don't hope so much. Mr Mattila, that is an excellent speech. In the case where the state makes a decision in principle on the acquisition of state resources, the decision-makers have the opportunity — and many municipalities have done so — to favour local food, domestic food. The criteria are always found if there is a will. Mr Eestilä gave a very good answer to that question as to why the Coalition Party's crisis package. It is precisely because, when the future EU programme is being prepared and we are now going through what can be done in this mid-term review, that the Finnish messages are precisely that (a) there are too many cross-compliances, (b) sanctions are too harsh, (c) the infringement of livestock must not become sanctions on the field side and vice versa. And to add to this the need to obtain tolerance in the area discards found during these checks. This is what we're driving, and thank you for your support. Congressman Halmemenpää asked about the creation. There is sufficient provision for support. The organic sector is growing, more farms are coming with us. The market has grown well in some trading groups, plus 20%. It's a pretty solid growth these days. The principle of promoting local and organic food remains in force. Let's see if there's anything more to this future decision. Representative Sarkkinen, diversification of rural livelihoods: the rural programme provides precisely these tools to invest, to develop new sources of income. I'm still picking up this from here. Lindtman was concerned about this competition. Yes, there is a need for that transparency in this food chain and for the chain to work together. If, then, a dominant position is misused, it is up to the Competition Authority to monitor it. I am not an authority, but I can promote a fair distribution of the food chain through my own actions. Mr Kankaanniemi spoke of these:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u63	That's fine. Now, let's go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u64	Mr President! I draw my attention to the representative. Essayah's excellent question about power tax. I ask the honourable ministers: could the government still consider abolishing the power tax on biogas cars, because I believe that the positive effects of the proposal on the regional economy and the development of the bioeconomy cover the profits from the power tax? For example, Central Finland has the technical potential of nearly 25,000 passenger cars to exploit biogas. Could the Ministers still shed light on what this positive, positive future of biogas means in practice? Can this perhaps mean extending the feed-in tariff to support small-scale energy production?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u65	Mr President! Climate change and global population growth are challenging food production in a whole new way. In practice, this means that we too here in the north must be able to maintain agricultural production and its profitability. We are in an even worse position at the moment, but climate change is likely to change the situation significantly over the next 20 years. There has been talk here of a better price for products. Now I really hope that there will be close cooperation with the entire food sector in the future. I know that it has been attempted, but it should be put on the basis that it actually works, because ultimately, in that chain, the value added is divided between the three players. Trade is the strongest among operators, and if we cannot properly build cooperation, then the end result is that we will continue to do so: producers will stricken, trade will be the largest and industry will take its own share of it between them. Now we need to have a negotiation process in which the result is distributed so that the farmer also has a fair share of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u66	Madam President! I will return to this concentration of trade. The two leading brands, which I am not mentioning here, indicate that they are using domestic raw materials. According to MTK, these two chains and their own brands compete for the raw materials until the last hour, who sold the cheapest. As a result, the primary producer is getting less and less of its own high-quality raw material. That is the question, Mr Tiilikainen, how to address this, so that we can have a fair share for these primary producers, so that we do not go into this concentration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u67	Mr President! Having listened to this debate, I believe that a rather fundamental issue has been overlooked, and that is precisely the Russian sanctions and the Russian sanctions against them. We had 430 million in food exports to Russia in 2014, of which Valio alone accounted for 350 million. When we talk here about market-based agricultural aid, I think, of course, that it is a bad thing to exploit the dominant position of trade. But it is because we do not have enough competition, that is to say export, for agricultural products. Here, among other things, Mr Terho mentioned sanctions and sanctions against Russia, and I think there was another representative. I ask the Prime Minister: do we have any prospect of negotiating these agricultural issues with the EU?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u68	Mr President! Work must be paid and on time. Now the situation is that, for example, the farmer receives only 7 cents for 2 euro of bread. This unreasonably small proportion of farmers must be taken into account. In this way, as a consumer, I think that simple labelling should be added to the food as to how much the producer receives from the product. In my opinion, this in itself would guide us Finnish consumers to pay attention and favour domestic and even local products. This would be relevant as, according to MKK's calculations, an increase of a few cents would improve the situation of farmers. I would like to ask the minister concerned: how do you react to this type of so-called producer's wage label, and are you going to promote the number of labels that increase the transparency of this type of production chain?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u69	Mr President! About what Mrs Myllykoski started with and Mr Turunen continued: In the next few days, we will receive a report on foreign and security policy and a meeting with our Head of State with the Head of Russia. Perhaps more is happening in the relationship between the EU and Russia than has been reported publicly, and in any case Germany and France are already on the move. What, either the Minister for Sectors or the Prime Minister, does Finland have political room for bilateral influence, anticipation, cooperation so that Finland will be ready at the moment, sooner or later, when sanctions and sanctions are lifted, while everyone knows that Finland bears the greatest burden of these responsibilities and sanctions?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u70	Madam President! There has been a very good debate on agriculture here in the Chamber, and for that I thank all the groups. The government deserves special thanks for the solution of the fact that more state guarantees and payment facilities are now being granted for interest subsidy loans and government loans. The second point of thanks relates to this Government decision in principle, in which the State procures food produced according to the production requirements required of farmers. This will also help municipalities and other providers of public food services to invoke and use these same principles. Milk production was severely affected by the Russian sanctions, and now that the EU has abolished milk quotas, which has resulted in several Member States of the Union raising their production by up to tens of percent, I ask the Minister whether there is now any acceptance in the Union of the Union's demand that measures be taken in the Member States to limit milk production.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u71	Madam President! We all know that farm animals are doing well when farmers — masters and wives — are doing well. And there are actually two ways to their well-being beyond the others: firstly, the fact that the vacation system works,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u74	Madam President! A large proportion of agricultural aid is paid from state resources and the EU share has fallen since each programming period. Yet both the EU's demand and its own national control system have been built, which must be respected. The EU's contribution will be reduced, but it will come from the EU, and it will be tightened up every year, in other words, one might think that where agriculture and the EU are concerned, there will be difficulties. Mr Tiilikainen, you have already described in some way the way in which you are working on this reduction in bureaucracy. I would like to ask about the concrete measures: how will it be reduced, how will the Finnish decision-making power to ensure that agricultural subsidies are paid up to date?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u75	Mr President! Finnish agriculture is not in distress, it is in crisis. In that respect, we are right about this issue. Indeed, in his speech, the first signatory of the mid-term question listed almost all the earth and heaven as the sins of the government. The prosecution of the government is in order, as long as more than one previous government is planted on the bench of the accused. It is also pointless to wash their hands of the perpetrators of this crisis. At least in Uusimaa, the crisis has been on and getting worse for years. But, Mr President, blaming farmers is not helping. It doesn't pay bills. It doesn't keep families on bread. That is why I ask: what more would the interlocutors do for farmers than Mr Tiilikainen and Mrs Leppä have already said? I believe that Mr Nylund was the only one who answered this in a realistic way. Concrete action.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u76	Thank you, Madam Speaker! It was expected that the speech would take a long time, but there it was. But I'm fine like this. If the previous representative had also listened more closely to my speech, there was some self - blame. For example, mistakes were made during the last term of government and mistakes have been made before that they were not only made during this term of government. I will list a few chapters here: light milk minus 17%, potato minus 21%, parsley minus 16%, bacon minus 16 and so on. This is not the fault of the government alone, not at all, and I am not talking about the fall in consumer prices, but about the fall in producer prices. And now that we're talking about it, I'm asking you — you can ask yourself — who was elected in the co-operative election the other day. You will be able to influence this issue better than any minister can. In that sense, I would ask,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u77	Mr President! With regard to subsidies for agricultural products, it is easy to forget that they are also for the benefit of consumers, in the form of food prices, for the benefit of shops. I would like to ask Minister Tiilikainen about this bureaucracy. We know it's huge. There's a note and a ticket to fill out. It's a huge amount. Sometimes it goes wrong, even though the farmer uses expert advice, and when the crux goes wrong, the sanction is thousands of euros, up to 10,000 euros. Is it possible that there will be relief?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u78	Madam Speaker! The productivity of Finnish agricultural production has been steadily improved by increasing investment and unit size, and as a result the farms have become indebted. Due to lower producer prices, cash flow has turned negative. It was therefore very comforting to hear that the government is bringing stability both in terms of terms of loans and guarantees. This is an encouraging message. On the other hand, it has been said from the government that action is to be taken to improve profitability in the long term. I think that all this debate that has been held here has been an encouraging hand-out to Finnish agriculture and Finnish farmers. This is a good place to go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u79	Mr Henriksson and then the Minister have the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u80	Mr President! Many of us know that many government ministers have quite a workload and I would read the Minister for Labour and Justice, and then Minister Tiilikainen, among others. Now that we know what kind of crisis Finland's agriculture is in, we know what the situation is in which our employment is, and we also know that changes are taking place in the government, we go from the SSS Government to the SOS Government, so now that there is also this SOS situation in both agriculture and employment, it would have been the chance, Prime Minister, to involve new players in the government, so that ministers can really concentrate on the important issue and have the capacity to do everything that has been brought up here? Negotiations should be conducted in the EU, reforms should be made in Mavia, red tape should be dismantled and so on and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u81	Then Minister Tiilikainen can start for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u82	Madam President! Mr Turunen raised the importance of this export, and you rightly said that if 400 million have disappeared from the sales side, then it will be visible somewhere. There's nothing to fix it except finding new markets. Although the Russian exports are behind these sanctions and sanctions against us, fortunately our food industry has increased by about 10%, that is to say, the market is there, but it only requires persistent, persistent work. Representative Nurminen asked if it could be marked in any way by the farmer’s slice of the package. You could know a reasonable amount of red tape, but this increase in origin labelling, the fact that the consumer knows that it is now a Finnish product, including processed products, that is certainly the right way to communicate to consumers. Mr Hautala asked about production restrictions. The EU therefore allows producer organisations and countries to restrict production if they so wish, but in practice I have not heard any colleagues say that this will happen in our country, because everyone fears that if we do, then a country with cheaper production costs will take advantage of the opportunity and only increase production and the situation will not change, only production will shift from place to place. Then, when we asked about these concrete measures, I thought that, well, let me repeat a few concrete measures — Mr Semi called for concrete action. I would like to take this amendment to the nitrates directive for example. The fact that the farmer is not required to load manure on asphalt, but that the job was rationalised, that the hard bottom is enough, or that the manure can still be distributed with its own notification in November when the weather conditions require subsequent autumn work, is a very concrete decision that will make it easier for farmers to work. Perhaps more concreteness can be sought, even here in the payment of subsidies, as many people talked about. They were indeed, 80 million, late. Although it was not like that less than 10 per cent of the total amount of aid, but when they were mainly livestock payments, where it is the most difficult situation, each delay stinged, and hard, farms. Now we have tightened that gap, by the end of June we will be paying the subsidies and next autumn we will be returning to a rather normal timetable, which will bring the subsidies up to the better half of the year by tens of millions, and, if EU decisions allow, we will be able to bring the payment of around EUR 70 million forward from December to October. This will facilitate the liquidity of the premises in a concrete way in due course. [President MariaLohela : It took some 3 minutes. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u85	Three minutes to Prime Minister Sipilä, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u86	Madam President! Representative Myllykoski, representative Turunen and representative Mustajärvi raised these EU sanctions. The German Foreign Minister called for the lifting of sanctions gradually as the Minsk agreement progressed. This is the kind of debate that is taking place in Europe around this. However, it is very likely that sanctions will continue for the next six months. You are all well aware that these sanctions are tied to the progress of the Minsk Agreement and to a unanimous decision in the EU. Mr Leppä then asked about this meeting in France. At the last European Council, a long time ago, its conclusions drew attention to this agricultural crisis at the initiative of France, supported by Finland and Luxembourg. This is now being discussed in such a way that if this were to encourage the European Union to put forward its crisis package. Then questions came over the biogas. We have a climate and energy strategy to update by the end of this year and it takes a stance on promoting this decentralised energy. I personally believe in the use of biogas as a fuel for transport and as a fuel for working machinery. This extension of the feed-in tariff to very small units will easily lead to more bureaucracy. Then maybe there's other ways to support it better. But in transport and in machinery it has great potential. During that debate, it occurred to me that our unanimous message should challenge trade in such a way that products that say that 10 cents more of the price of this milk can goes to producers and that together we would challenge consumers in a way that gives them products that are clearly greater than those which then end up with producers. Minister Tiilikainen presented a number of deregulation measures that have been taken. Maybe one more over there. This transfer of derogation decisions for the construction of sparsely populated areas to municipalities is also a big deal for farmers. Then perhaps the comparison of Terrafame's supplementary budget decision with this agricultural aid is a little unfair. We all know that we are doing it with great reluctance. We already had private money in the government for this project to ensure the future of that company. Maybe that comparison wasn't very fair in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u87	Then we can continue with the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u88	Mr President! There's more money left for the producer to make. Organic matter is also more environmentally friendly, energy-efficient, healthier. The previous government set national organic targets for Finland, which have now been approved by this government in its programme. In 2020, 20% of Finland's arable land area must be organic and 20% of the food provided in public food services must be organic. Well, now to achieve these organic goals, the previous government founded the Organic Institute in Finland, and this is located in Mikkeli, but without state funding, the Institute's experts are unable to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u89	Madam President! Fifty thousand farms, or half of Finland's farms, have stopped in the EU, and it really seems that the crises in agriculture have only continued year after year and now, in particular, when the EU milk quotas have been abolished and Russia's sanctions are being dismantled for Finland's food exports. Good, if there are exports now coming to other countries. However, the delay in the payment of subsidies has indeed led to a continuing shortage of cash on farms and, on the other hand, it should be understood that we consumers also have to understand that agricultural aid is, after all, our consumer support. The price of food has fallen in shops as a result of competition, but farmers, i.e. primary producers, have not benefited from it. There has never been more food on display, such as on TV shows and elsewhere, but somehow it seems that the producer has been overshadowed. State guarantees for farmers' crisis loans are a good thing, and indeed if this crisis package is brought to the worst in the autumn, but I would like to ask how we can resolve this permanent structural crisis in agriculture in the long term and how consumers can influence it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u90	Mr President! Prime Minister, you have just appealed to the Minsk Agreement, and yet now we know that Russia is not very willing to grant the whole Minsk Treaty. If the Minsk agreement is expected, there is hardly any help for agriculture in Finland. If it is up to us to lift the sanctions, then we can obviously wait a long time for them to be dismantled. But I would say that our colleagues in Denmark have one such idea that we too could learn from, and that is that they do not want to be empathetic. First I wonder, what in the world? And they explained that they want to do things in such a way that they do not have to be empathetic. I think that's a pretty good starting point. Now, if we go to that part of the agricultural sector, could you think that the government would lend a non-interest-bearing loan to those who are becoming clearly supported by the EU and then, when this money comes — whether it comes a month, two or three years late — it would automatically come to the state's treasury, which would be a completely risk-free loan?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u91	Mr President! The farmer is now in an emergency, so that crisis package would be needed now and not only in the autumn. On the other hand, the government cuts the environmental support system, although farmers have been very eager to get involved and the number of curtains has exceeded all expectations. Increase the appropriations for this purpose. Minister Tiilikainen, you spoke beautifully about creation, which is very welcome. One thing that would contribute to organic farming would be the vitamin D of organic milk, as is done in Sweden. At what point are we in Finland? I would like to highlight the new products that people would really like to buy and think about the climate. What does the government do to support the production of beef bean? What measures are to be taken to promote these new opportunities?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u92	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the opposition for a good-spirited debate and for waking up to this serious crisis for farmers. But I have to question the purity of your motives a little bit now. It is clear that there are huge numbers of people in this House who have pushed for cuts in agricultural subsidies and tighter agricultural and environmental standards, so that farmers are choked under its administrative burden. You've been trying to stop fur farming. Your predatory policy has been a poison to the reindeer and sheep economy. Why? This is where the heart starts to cry for blood, and I hope that, following this interim debate, cooperation between the government and the opposition will improve. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Tiilikainen for promising that you will now be able to pay the subsidies that have fallen behind by the end of June. That's the most important message we're about to get out of here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u93	Mr President! I must say that Mr Kärnä's history is very brief, but I thank Minister Tiilika for a very factual and good debate. The two most important messages in our group speech are this concentration of trade and getting fair trade there. The second is, of course, this increase in the utilisation rate of domestic food in public services and the requirement to adopt Finnish legislation on food and animal protection. I can say here, as a positive conclusion, that the Government of the Hospital District of South Ostrobothnia made a decision that this should be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u94	Madam President! With the strong negotiating position of trade and the talk of the collapse of the producer price of milk, it is clear that as long as milk is produced more than it is bought, the negotiating position of trade will remain very strong. In 2015, 16 per cent more Finnish milk was produced in Finland than it was used, and in addition, imports were added. And milk is not the easiest thing to export. As long as we maintain structures where there is more production than demand, all operators in the sector will be in a tight position. This is a very difficult structural change and the plight of farmers is real. But you can't escape this fact. As long as there is more supply than there is demand, prices will remain low.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u95	Madam President! You should do your homework. The self-sufficiency of milk production is 97%, and we have a large number of foods in which the self-sufficiency rate is really low, but nevertheless the price is not what the farmer deserves, because in the food chain that price formation is not going well. That is why I think that the issues raised by Mrs Wallin, the questions about what we could do more, are quite proper. Absolutely, if that price does not go right in this food chain, we must open up competition law. And since it is in the Rootel of the Minister of Finland, I would like to ask the Finns of Finland whether you are prepared to look at this competition law, as has already been the case with the producer and industry organisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u96	President! This has in itself been an extremely good and necessary debate. I agree with these views. There is no single explanation for the plight of agriculture. Of course, the explanatory factor is not the payment problems of the Agriculture Agency, but it is a kind of last drop, after which many have been boiled over. Sometimes, at a weak moment, it's occurred to me when it's been so hard to fix this thing that a 16-year-old nerd could have done better than anyone else. But in this debate we have not been sufficiently aroused by the mental problems that farmers now face. This is comparable to the situation of entrepreneurs during the recession of the 1990s, and here is a really ticking time bomb. There are divorces, many tragic things, and we need to be able to react to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u97	Madam President! I must say that I too have a slightly different information on milk production from Mr Vartia. I think it is so, as Mr Kalmari said, that we produce quite the amount of milk in Finland that the Finns consume. Too bad, however, a large slice of milk consumed by Finns is imported milk products, But I actually asked to take the floor to continue a little bit with the concentration of trade and competition law. I suppose there must be something we can do in that area too. Surely it cannot be quite acceptable and a fair procedure — even when the Competition Authority has pointed it out — for large retailers to demand that producers pay some threshold money so that the product can even be placed on the shelf, or even to take back the products that have not been sold? This is not something we can accept, is it? And when the store is so focused,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u98	Mr President! On the other hand, with regard to these production figures and production volumes, we must remember that we live on a common European market. But EU agricultural policy, EU programme policy is a big part of our agricultural sector. We are currently living in the mid-term of the current programming period, and I understand in that way that the best time is being lobbed out pretty fast in that post-2020 programming period. As far as agriculture is concerned, of course, it is also about these regulations, but above all about the whole of the EAGF and the EAFRD. These are important to us in the national economy as a whole, because, of course, a significant part of farm income comes from there, but also through our ability to integrate a significant part of the membership fees here. Minister, what are the main issues at EU level now, in a way, to which the debate on the EU-level programming period now stands?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u99	Mr President! I could answer Mr. Kärnä's question. The advantage of Finnish agriculture is quality and ethics. The profitability of agriculture cannot be sought by compromising quality, and animal rights are also respected in a civilised society. A healthy animal is productive, and consumers also want animal ethics from the product. The survival of farmers is an essential issue for animal welfare. But the animal welfare law in preparation is also essential for farm animals. I hope that the law will become a positive and clear whole for the welfare of farmed animals. For example, the construction of new asparagus should be stopped, as has been done in most other Western countries. The requirements of the new law for animal production must be implemented within transitional periods, so that farms have time to adapt to the standards. I would like to ask the Minister: what is the Animal Protection Act?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u100	Madam President! Last year, the hourly salary of an agricultural entrepreneur was about EUR 3.3. How many people would be willing to work around the year, sometimes 24 hours a day, as is now the case with this kind of pay during the time of feeding? If Finland were to work everywhere for hourly agricultural wages and efficiency, our cost level would be by far the most competitive in the world and our country would wrinkle in the trade surplus. The new president of the Left Alliance has recently suggested that the working hours of workers with monthly wages should be reduced from eight to six hours, but the wages should remain the same. How credible do you think this is for the farmers involved in this issue? And I understand very well that the strategy of the SDP on this issue was to opt out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u101	Mr President! Even from the point of view of security of supply, it is essential that domestic family farming in Finland continues to be profitable. Ultimately, it is a question of our entire production chain being able to cope with all the areas, including farmers. When it was mentioned earlier that we are on a European market, which is true in many respects, then, of course, we also have to look at the cost of production. In this respect, it is quite reasonable to require that products purchased on the public side in Finland, for example, are required to meet requirements that are also used in production in Finland. It is not right if you have an unfair competitive advantage for someone who imports goods from elsewhere, because Finnish production is ethically sustainable and animal welfare is also taken care of. So the important thing is that the operating conditions remain in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u102	Madam President! Information technology has been wrinkled, information systems have not worked, the country has focused on managing information systems first and only then people, rural entrepreneurs. A good Minister, in the country of the paper industry and mobile phones, telephone, paper and pen could have solved many problems, or at least alleviated and subsidies distributed. Why were these basic tools not put in place and given priority to rural entrepreneurs and their well-being? If health care had been done in a similar way, many patients would have been left untreated and lives lost. Why are information systems allowed to host? Information systems can wait, and they can be updated at a later stage. People, farmers, can't wait.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u103	Mr President! In fact, Prime Minister Sipilä said earlier that different forms of entrepreneurship and production in different industries should not be put against each other. In the past, in this serious crisis in agriculture, we discussed, for example, what state resources are being spent on. Indeed, I find it very unfair that mining, for example, should be compared to the agricultural situation in this context. It is good to note, therefore, that today, for example, Winterfell, the current Terrafame, has already produced more than public money in tax revenue for society as a whole. This may be a good thing to remember when considering this use of funds for other industries. But, President-in-Office, especially on the agricultural side, it is now particularly important to consider how to achieve profitability through the growth of real business activity and the fact that producers actually get their share of this food price and understand that aid is provided for:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u104	Mr President! First of all, for the overproduction of this trendy oats, the raw material comes from Sweden and Germany. Our ability to create the conditions for food production is also an important part of our security of supply. National crisis response is necessary and the EU must also be required to provide all possible support for the crisis in our agriculture. When money is pumped into the EU, you have to know how to take it back. Geopolitically, we have an important role to play, and we look at it from the point of view of the EU or NATO. Therefore, the criteria for support for agriculture are clear, for we are a country that has clearly suffered both from economic sanctions on the part of the EU to Russia and from sanctions against Russia, as has been pointed out here by a number of representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u105	Mr President! When I listened to the speech from the centre, I was a little surprised. The situation is rather perverse that the SDP is being accused of not being involved in the issue of the overthrow of the government. Once we are, as it were, giving the government time and we want to support the government's actions, that is what we are now being accused of here. Quite a peculiar political setting, Mr President, but as far as this crisis of agricultural profitability is concerned, let us be honest: no agricultural aid will be sufficient unless we can increase the income from the market. Here I come, President, to this dominant role in trade. We have a highly concentrated trade in Finland, it shows and feels, and if the position of the primary producer in this food chain cannot be improved, this situation will continue. The last government intervened. Under the leadership of the then Minister for Labour, Lauri Ihalainen, we made a programme to promote healthy competition, which allowed the tools to intervene in this dominant market position in trade. What are you doing, Minister? Brickhead, do you use these tools? This is where Congressman Kalmari said,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u106	Madam President! Now we must all remember here that we operate on a common European market and that the market works in such a way that goods are traded across borders. This must be noted here, but this must also be taken into account on that side of the competition authorities. At the moment, our input market and our producer price market are operating in a completely different way. We have a common market, but different rules of the game. This cannot be the case, and that is why we need fairer trade in food in this country, so that we can make a profitable contribution to securing domestic production, as we all want here today, that is a good thing. Prime Minister Sipilä made a plea that we should all appeal to trade to introduce fairer practices. We must now all take note of this and make such an appeal, together with every party, all together, and be strongly behind this issue and also the authorities' action to ensure that the food chain is fairer than it is at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u107	Mr President! According to my information, a digital transport document, a digital cargo tracking system, is being organised and constructed in this country, indicating, among other things, this travel chain and the carbon footprint of its transport. This carbon footprint enables competition and procurement to favour local food, local production. The question is: When this new system comes into operation, will procurement and tendering be instructed to work in such a way that it favours the Finnish? With this suggestion of this domestic sign, can the government do something about this really fair trade sign?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u108	Mr President! Finnish farmers are known to be the EU's top priorities in the environmental and environmental management of agriculture, although the opposite is often claimed. It has been hoped for a long time, and this has also been the aim of this government, that the management of the environment will be reduced. There has been talk of reducing environmental permit procedures, for example, by moving from the environmental permits for livestock buildings to the notification procedure. At the same time, this would also speed up the start-up of investment and would be a good thing in many ways. So I ask the Minister: how is this reduction in the management of environmental work progressing, can we finally give farmers good news?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u109	Mr President! There have been very good speeches here. Every Finn will certainly want to support Finnish countryside and agriculture, and various petitions have been made. It has been told what the government can do, ideas have come and payment promises. It has also been told what municipal decision-makers can do — a good note from representative Mattila of the Finns. But we have forgotten to appeal to the one who uses that food. So why don't we Members of Parliament and the Ministry announce that we're buying Finnish?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u112	Mr President! Indeed, one quick way to remedy the situation of farmers is to consume more Finnish food. I would like to see it through my own example: when I am a hard sauna and always in the sauna I enjoy sausages and refreshments on top of it, they both have a Finnish raw material base. Representative Vartia — he left here — I would also like to see domestic food available in the sauna in Helsinki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u113	Madam President! Prime Minister Sipilä felt that it was a little unfair to equate Terrafame with a possible crisis package. I don't think so. I have listened to experts from both Terrafame and the Ministry of Economic Affairs in the Committee on Finance, I have heard an expert from the Ministry of Agriculture in the Committee on Agriculture and I have not questioned at all the subsidies or capitalisation of Terrafame. I'm questioning the sequence. Terrafame would have been excellent until September or October if they had received EUR 96 million now and the remaining EUR 48 in the autumn, but farmers did not manage. It was a question of value selection, and farmers are paying for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u114	Madam President! Now that the public sauna mentioned by Mr Pakkanen came up, I can tell you on behalf of all of us that there really was some very domestic food available there. For the first time in my life, I enjoyed my own domestic wimp deer in the form of a very tasty wimp burger, even though I am a mixed eater. But now that we are talking about favouring domestic food, competition law and so on, I would also like to raise one issue in this debate, which is a very potential major influence for Finnish food producers and for us consumers. The big thing is the negotiations on a free trade agreement between the United States and the European Union. I would like to hear from Minister Tiilikainen the strong comments on how we intend to take into account in these negotiations the fact that our domestic food production, domestic agriculture, is not going to be completely underdogged.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u115	Finally, Mr Essayah, and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u116	Madam President! It is a so-called public secret that some EU countries are circumventing these Russian sanctions and exporting food through Belarus, for example. Foods such as salmon from Belarus and shrimps from Belarus have appeared. There are rumours that even the Dutch food industry, the EU presidency, is doing this. A representative of the Finnish food company told our group when we visited, that they do not want to go to this kind of game of chills and they want to follow the rules. I would have asked the Minister whether this circumvention of the rules or the circumvention of the boycott has arisen on the EU tables and would the Minister have the courage to put this cat on the table, in this case agricultural policy on the table. It is quite unreasonable that a completely different set of rules is played in the same market and that this boycott is being circumvented, if indeed even Dutch companies are doing so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u117	The next five minutes for Minister Tiilikainen, and then we attack the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u118	Mr President! In the previous round, Mr Elomaa's speech was not commented on. You spoke about this moderation of sanctions, and here Mrs Korhonen asked what are the most urgent or strongest issues of this kind at EU level. Yes, they are precisely these EU support conditions and the bureaucracy. I will take a concrete example starting with this moderation. Last autumn, when it became apparent that delays in the labelling of animals threatened to result in farmers losing a lot of other subsidies than those sanctions due to a registration defect, I intervened, so to speak, and decided that we would interpret this differently, reasonablely. It cannot be that the consequences of the error are far more severe than has been the case in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u122	Then, from the list of speakers, Mrs Katainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u123	Madam President! The mid-term issue of the opposition is right in that the plight of agriculture is real and immediate and also more long-term measures are needed to safeguard Finnish food production. Otherwise, the substance of the intermediate issue will be regrettablely superficial. Concrete ways of facilitating the plight of agriculture or examples of long-term action by the opposition were scarcely available. For its part, the government has taken a number of concrete steps, which we have heard from the Minister today, in order to resolve this crisis. Of course, similar determination would have long been expected from many previous governments, where the parties that signed the interim issue themselves were involved. For years the crisis has been allowed to deepen so that we are now facing a very serious situation. A mere image policy, a good opposition, does not help a Finnish farmer. Mr President! The acute problems and economic problems in agriculture have led to several factors in the same period, which, together, place an exceptionally high burden on the liquidity and profitability of farms. Since the beginning of 2013, average producer prices have fallen significantly, but input prices have remained almost unchanged. With regard to milk production in particular, it can be said that these are totally crazy times. The Russian sanctions fell at the same time as the EU landed milk quotas. The crisis in agriculture is therefore very complex. We need to be able to act quickly on several fronts so that the future can genuinely be brighter. One important factor is, of course, the European Union. The aid policy must be able to rave in such a way as to make food production genuinely profitable. The common objectives of the Union must also be accompanied by support for security of supply and food self-sufficiency in the Member States. It is crucial for the future of Finnish agriculture. In the area of red tape, the government has made a laudable start. However, there is still a lot of work to be done. The reduction in administrative work is not really reflected at all in the farmer's everyday life. Society must be able to act in such a way that the time and work of the farmer is focused on the work itself, not on the paper war. There is still plenty to be done here. There is also a need to find new markets for Finnish products. This is where Mr Tiilikainen has already done a very good job. Hopefully, Finnish agriculture will soon enjoy the fruits of that work. It is also clear, as has been said several times here today, that even in the Finnish market, producers must be able to obtain the corresponding remuneration for their input throughout this chain. All in all, Finnish agriculture and security of supply through it is also a safety issue. Food is something that must be able to prepare for even the worst crises that would leave each country to its own self-sufficiency. From this point of view, it is clear that excellence in food production cannot be lost in Finland. As an import-based people, we would be far too vulnerable if a major international crisis struck. The security of supply in food production must therefore be taken very seriously. Mr President! One of the greatest burdens for farmers is controls and subsidies cuts. The current system gives rise to great concern for farmers and, in particular, the burden of proof of compliance with the conditions of support for the farmer alone is quite unreasonable. Finland has made a number of proposals for amendments to the EU regulations to the Commission and, fortunately, work is already under way at EU level to simplify the agricultural aid system. However, so far the balance has been weak from the perspective of the Finnish farmer. It would be desirable to see reforms that are much more effective in this whole set of controls and aid cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u124	Mr President! As has already been said several times in Mr Tiilikainen's reply and in the speech of each representative, the crisis and distress in agriculture are unsettlingly real. The government's measures, which have been heard from the Minister's mouth, are all important, but it has to be said that dealing with the agricultural crisis with a mere policy is like pushing a string. The site of the requirements is like the platform of Ostrobothnia: it stretches as far as the eye can see. Influencing the price level of products and inputs and the wider market through policy measures is slow and will not solve the acute crisis alone. Let's take a quick roll to a few stages. In the autumn of 2015, a major demonstration in Brussels proved that the patience of farmers is certainly under test. With this demonstration, the Commission promised farmers an acute crisis funding of EUR 500 million, of which the proportion of Finnish farmers was relatively modest of 2%, approximately EUR 10 million. At the same time, it was found in Finland that environmental aid and compensatory allowances could be paid by the end of October instead of 75% previously set. I would ask you to note that if 85% of the amount is known, the exact amount for 100% will also be known and, more importantly, the remaining 15% will have to be paid under EU law by the end of June this year at the latest. The activities of the Ministry and the agricultural authorities with regard to the payment of subsidies give rise to reasonable amazement. First of all, the information systems of the Rural Development Agency are cluttered in the context of a more ambitious national payment schedule, but not now, apparently, in the ultimate frame of the payment schedule set by the EU. According to Mavi's note, the aid will be paid by the end of June, where the EU has set a deadline for payments. Secondly, the delay in payment of subsidies has been accused by Mav of when EU agricultural policy reforms, when resource shortages and when incomplete information systems or their shortcomings have been implemented. On 11 March, Minister Tiilikainen stated unequivocally at the Senate Square that Mavin's Director-General, Leena Tenhola, as Director-General of the Office, would be limited in its responsibilities so that it would no longer apply to subsidies in the future. One month later, Husu-Kallio, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, made the Minister’s actions empty. It is unlikely that, without better information, the Chief of Staff would allow the Minister to refer his criticisms to someone to whom he does not know that they belong. Thirdly, in March Fitch, another international ratingr, decreased the Finnish rating to AA+. In practice, it means that government revenue financing is not sufficient to cover its expenditure. Mr President! However, these three factors, which sound unsettling to one another — i.e. Mav’s actions, the reaction of the Minister and the Chief of Staff, together with the fall in the credit rating — are perhaps crystallised. On the basis of these, I would like to ask a question, or rather a question: as far as the transfer of subsidies is concerned, it could not be a question of the state running out of money and the various instalments of the Treasury being transferred elsewhere within the timetable set by the EU for the payment of subsidies, and we are now in a situation where domestic farmers are being paid? It is theoretically possible to lump these stages together, but why would it not be possible to do so in practice? If that were the case, I too believe that the criticism of Mavia and her director-in-chief may be unreasonable in some cases. I think it is honest to say that this interim issue could not be much more awkward in this situation. I hope that the government, and in particular the Minister, will: In his actions, Mr Tiilikainen is now demonstrating the same vigour with which, during the last parliamentary term, you criticised the very ministerial portfolio that you are now managing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u125	Mr President! As has been pointed out in today's debates, payments to farmers, which are important, have been very late this year. Mavi's activities must now be reformed and made more efficient and the information systems updated to ensure that this does not happen again. I believe that wages must be paid on time, and subsidies are, in particular, a prerequisite for full-time farmers. The delay in payments combined with the deterioration in overall profitability has had a significant impact on farmers' livelihoods, and therefore today's debate on the interim issue has been very important. Even without late payments, farmers and Finnish food have been squeezed in Finland. Revenues have fallen sharply over the last few years, most in the EU as a whole. According to the Central Union of Agricultural and Forestry Producers, the price of rye bread, which costs around EUR 2, is only about 7 cents. According to MTK statistics, for rye bread, among other things, the producer price has fallen by almost 10 %. A debate on what is left of the farmer’s work should be added to the debate on the matter. According to MKK’s estimate, an increase of 5 cents in the price of this bread would significantly improve the situation of farmers. Transparency in production chains would also bring realism to this situation and agricultural policy. I was wondering if, for example, food could show more clearly how much of the price of the product is lost to the farmer, would you buy the products of the nearby farmer? I believe that the answer is 'yes', and I trust the responsible consumers in Finland in this matter and I believe that it would be an important factor in this situation as well. Finnish clean food is a matter for each of us, and it is a matter of getting a fair wage for this work. That is why this debate is extremely important. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this food chain employs as many as 300,000 Finns, i.e. a significant number. The added value of food should be further increased from the current good level, as Finland should compete here, too, in terms of quality. And in this, Finland still has a genuine niche market with sustainable and innovative production of clean food and, in particular, new kinds of products. One good example that has also emerged in this Chamber is the wrinkly oatmeal. Pruning oat is Finnish innovative, clean and sustainable food at its best. This is the future. I would draw attention to the fact that, especially in this time period, it would be necessary to support young and innovative producers, in particular, who may have been in the early stages of their careers, possibly made considerable investments and are willing to develop their production in a new way. I would remind you that quality and animal welfare requirements for Finnish production are not required for imported food. It can be seen here in our product prices, but domestic food is competing in a high quality series, and that is what we all need to remember. In particular, public procurement, such as food provided in schools and hospitals, which we political decision-makers and municipal decision-makers can influence, should guarantee a high and sustainable level of domesticism, and here we have a great deal more to do. Mr President! I would like to emphasise once again that it is the duty of all of us to defend Finnish work, clean food and sustainable development policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u126	Mr President! We want safe domestic food, sustainable agriculture and a vibrant countryside. It is important that the Finnish farmer survives his work and earns a living for his family. In this way we can continue to favour Finnish local food in our shopping. The reform of the EU's agricultural policy came into force a few years ago. Agriculture will be greened throughout Europe, taking into account biodiversity and the state of water bodies. For Finland, the changes were not major, as we have had environmental aid for a long time. The reform of the EU's agricultural policy has given rise to concerns about farmers' livelihoods. National support for farmers has been reduced and Russian sanctions have taken hold. Action is needed. It is essential that municipalities prioritise local food and domestic food in their procurements. Large chains take too much of the food chain's output. New direct sales routes are needed. Food cooperatives that increase the popularity of urban residents are good development. There has been concern about the increased control of the new system and the excessive delay in payment of subsidies. Trust is important and unnecessary control and bureaucracy must be reduced. The phasing-in of payments between controls and the conversion of controls into risk-based controls and their reduction would make it easier to control and would guarantee an honest farmer a good job. And the subsidies must be paid on time. Work on clean waters will also continue. We want to support wetlands that bind organic, increasingly extensive water protection zones and nutrients. An efficient method is the use of a nutrient balance based on soil nutrient analysis, in which case the field is not over-fed year after year. Organic production is a sustainable alternative where nutrients circulate. The rational recycling of nutrients and the production of local energy by farms are both worthwhile objectives. Farm size biogas plants offer a good solution. Waste from manure and straw is digested into solid fertilizer and biogas is also produced for electricity and heat production. In order to promote this renewable energy, a tailor-made support solution is needed from the state. In order to promote climate protection, more oats are needed, more beans are needed. Use bean for food and other plant for biogas. Here is the idea for saving the countryside and the earth in Finland. Sustainable agriculture cannot exist without care for the well-being and survival of farmers, which is why the holiday is being maintained. Food is also about animal rights. The conditions of farming animals must be improved by guaranteeing more room for manoeuvre, stimulation and the possibility of species-specific behaviour. A comprehensive reform of the Animal Protection Act is needed, and the same strict requirements must also be imposed on imported products. One threat to European agriculture is the TTIP free trade negotiations between the United States and the EU. Although there is much room for improvement in European agriculture, it is much more sustainable in many respects than in the United States. Free trade must not mean that we have to accept American hormone-treated and chlorine-washed meat or genetically engineered plants. This is an intermediate issue that is necessary. Farmers are in great need and their incomes are falling. The government's actions have been tinkering, and environmental aid has been drastically cut just as demand for them has been increasing. When farmers bear environmental responsibility, they should be given the opportunity to do so. By increasing environmental support, we will have cleaner Baltic Sea and growth for sustainable production. The best ways of doing this must be spread everywhere. These have been studied locally, for example, in the Nutrients Management Project of Uusimaa. You can't bring a country. That is why it is so important to take care of the Finnish countryside and its people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u127	Mr President! Agricultural income collapsed last year. The worst affected pig farms may not have had any income at all. Do you think the Minister has missed this? The speeches given to farmers who took part in the tractor march have proved to be as soft as the field of plowing after the spring flood. The Finnish peasant is known to be humble and long - suffering, but that too has its limits. By the time the farm's electricity is cut off because of the late state funding, it has gone well across the border. The changes in the information system required by the changes to the support system have been difficult for all EU countries, but this is not enough to explain in a state of excellence in information technology such as Finland. Information management's purchasing skills have been weak, and delays in payments without any interest on late payments have been very excessive. The government has been appallingly delaying its response to the farmers' plight. Some claim that understanding has been lacking, especially in the Ministry of Finance. Hopefully the situation will change when Minister Orpo, who has previously worked as Minister of Agriculture and Forestry, takes responsibility for the preparation of the budget. Mr President! The concentration of grocery trade in two large chains and, among other things, the trade chains' own brands have further weakened the position of farmers in the food chain. When production is concentrated on large food business operators, local operators are not sufficiently taken into account. At EU level, competition laws should be reviewed in such a way as to prevent unfair trading practices altogether. The name of the manufacturer is also needed for the products sold under the trade mark. Import food must have the same requirements as domestic food. Competition in public procurement must be changed so that tenders can only be received for food products from countries where environmental and animal protection standards are at least at the same level as our own legislation. The next period of the EU's common agricultural policy will begin in 2020. The key objective of this new so-called CAP period must be a clearer and simpler support system, through which management and control can actually be reduced. Real measures are needed to promote the bioeconomy. Agricultural by-products, such as manure and plant waste, are excellent sources of domestic renewable energy, biogas. However, the increase in biogas production is significantly hampered by some of the provisions proposed by the KD in its legislative initiative. Regrettably, the government has considered that energy production aid can only be granted for the construction investment needed for the production of energy on the farm insofar as the energy produced is used in the production of agricultural activities. In practice, this has led to no aid for the construction of biogas plants if biogas is produced beyond its own needs, for example, for the sale of nearby properties for heating or transport fuel. Support logic is lame, as not all milk produced in the barn is consumed on the farm itself. The use of digestion from the process has also been made almost impossible, although in the nutrient cycle it would very often replace artificial fertilizer imported from abroad. The suspension of the so-called Kemera grant by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for the rest of the year halted the well-started seedling and young forest management work in many areas during the best working season. The situation threatens the employment of loggers, growing seedlings and the supply of bioeconomy raw materials in the future. Mr President! There is plenty of export opportunities in the bioeconomy, and I am not only talking about the forestry sector and bioproduct factories, but also about food production. We have experience in oat production, we have one great opportunity and Finland must take the lead in its production in the world. The Finnish state must strongly support the promotion of new export markets for Finnish food, including through export guarantees and export credits. I hope and ask that the government finally take the needs of farmers seriously and act immediately. The current crisis needs to be dealt with immediately and a fresh start for agricultural growth and success. As citizens, each of us can contribute here only and only by choosing what is produced locally and preferably close to home.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u128	Mr President! Agriculture is of great importance to Finland. What is a country that cannot feed its people? We cannot leave ourselves at the mercy of others when it comes to security of supply for food. Even if we are interested in animal welfare, our own agriculture is the way to do so. We have a chance to make sure those animals are treated well. Farmers are angry and rightly so. Many farmers have contacted me and told me about their challenges. The problem is over-indebtedness of farmers. Guidance comes from the EU and is struggling to invest in the hope of receiving aid, but all investments have an own contribution. When, for example, 30 percent of the soil that can be installed in slurry wagons has been supported during the programming period, then the price of soil has been increased by equipment manufacturers and dealers by just 30 percent. In reality, someone else is taking the share of the aid and the farmer is in debt. This needs to change. Double checks on the same issues are also an extra burden. First you go to the county vet and in a couple of weeks you go to the vet. It is good to have supervision, but now the farm can be visited by five different inspectors on consecutive days. Large industries seek cost savings with large units and concentrate their activities on them. If you look back, there was a bakery, a slaughterhouse, and a dairy in each municipality and city that provided local food. They didn't drive it all over the world. The processing of ingredients in meat, bread, milk and prepared foods has gone too far. From Kauhavalta, pigs are taken to Forssa for slaughter and from there to further processing in Poland and back to Finland on store shelves in different forms. The same goes for bread. The bureaucracy needs to be dismantled. For example, small production plants where real local food is produced are under strict control and with large establishments on the same line, without the possibility of hiring paper spinners for bureaucracy. We need to get back to the Norm Disassembly. Mr President! Departure from the EU would give national sovereignty back to agriculture as well. Trade in Russia is very important to agriculture, and Finland is a major sufferer because of the current sanctions. — Let us be so at the heart of the EU and suffer!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u129	Mr President! When it comes to domestic food, most of us have a positive image: perhaps a fresh rye bread or a tasty oatmeal, or someone might think of a summer barbecue. In view of the Finnish countryside, there are also many positive images. The picture of the countryside may even be nostalgic, with lush fields of grain and clean air. These images tell us a lot, they tell us that Finns value domestic food and Finns value rural areas. Tells us something about humanity, that this is the way it is elsewhere, that in most countries the people of that country value their own country’s food, that domestic food in that country, and they want to keep the country’s countryside inhabited. Now that image of the countryside, when we are discussing the issue of the middle ground in Parliament, there has been an outbreak of crisis. It culminated in the spring tractor march when farmers came to Helsinki to tell about the crisis. The profitability crisis is true and four reasons can be identified: above all, the difficult market situation which has led to lower producer prices. Among other things, there is a background for overproduction, such as pork, although on the other hand, there is even a shortage of organic pig meat. On the other hand, the result is, for example, the abolition of milk quotas. But it is honest to say that farmers' cuts are also behind them. This government will also cut payments to farmers in the spending limits period by EUR 232 million. This is also due to delays in payment schedules for subsidies, which is inexcusable because, for the farmer, it is a matter of wages that are not paid on time. Furthermore, this crisis of profitability in agriculture is due to a ban on the export of food to Russia, i.e. the counter-restraint imposed by Russia. President! We social democrats are particularly plagued by this home-made problem for farmers, namely the delays in payments. We look forward to this government, Minister Tiilikainen, finally getting these rural information systems in place and making sure that the subsidies end up in farmers' households, farms, on time. Otherwise, farms will go bankrupt, go deeper into problems, and the cause is entirely self-inflicted. All the support for these actions which Mr Tiilikainen was going to take here today. In the long term, we must certainly find sustainable solutions for the profitability of agriculture. We Social Democrats want to see special support for active farms and young farmers in Finland. Production costs must be kept under control and more needs to be found throughout the food chain for the primary producer. To this end, the previous government adopted a programme to promote healthy competition, in which Finland wanted to address the dominant position of an exceptionally concentrated trade. It is indeed true that access to distribution and trade must be facilitated, and now action is expected from this government to reduce the dominant role of trade in favour of the primary producer. Finnish agriculture cannot survive without high quality, without high ethical standards. We want to eat clean, high-quality domestic food, and we want the environment to be properly taken care of in rural areas as well. It is the only way to ensure long-term demand for Finnish food and also to enable successful export efforts and finding new markets for Finnish food. We Social Democrats also expect the animal welfare law to be introduced into Parliament and changes to the legislation to promote animal welfare: for example, there must be solutions to the pain relief of calves, the abandonment of asparagus and the removal of pig farrowing cages. President! The Social Democrats have been a movement for the liberalisation of small farmers and torpedoes in the first place. We are in favour of Finnish agriculture. We see that the food industry has much to offer this economy. All in all, it employs 300,000 people and is in no way trivial. We expect the government to take vigorous steps to get out of this crisis, but at the moment we are not satisfied,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u130	Mr President! In 2014, there were 52,775 farms in Finland. The number is decreasing in a threatening manner. There are about 105,000 farmers and members of farming families in Finland. In total, some 150,000 people worked in agriculture and horticulture in 2013. The value of food exports in 2015 was approximately EUR 1.4 billion. Finland is also almost completely self-sufficient in food. Agriculture in Finland is therefore a significant economic activity, the vitality of which needs to be taken care of absolutely. Agriculture in Finland experienced a major change when we joined the European Union in 1995. When we joined the Union, we also joined the European Union's common agricultural policy. This meant a revolution in the support system for agriculture and, above all, a change in the nature of agriculture. It also meant a significant increase in the bureaucracy associated with aid and the gradual disappearance of small and medium-sized farms. The original purpose of the European Union's common agricultural policy and its support policy was to improve the productivity of European agriculture after World War II. However, productivity rose very rapidly to and above self-sufficiency. However, the aid scheme remained and is still in the hands of farmers in all EU countries. The importance of the support system is often discussed. At times, public debate hears demands that the support system, which met the original meaning, should be completely abolished and shifted to purely market-based food production. However, agricultural aid has many meanings. Among other things, subsidies ensure a low price level for food. Without subsidies, the price of food for the consumer would rise clearly. So it is a kind of transfer. If everyone is willing to pay a higher price for food, then the system would operate without subsidies. EU agricultural aid also strengthens security of supply in our country, employs about 150,000 people, supports a diverse economic structure and contributes to the vitality of our rural areas. But at the same time I have to say that accession to the EU in 1995 led and forced Finnish farmers to produce intensively. Unfortunately, it is now taking our producers into great distress. Violent agriculture ensures a high level of self-sufficiency in Finland. In the event of a global food supply crisis, Finland would continue to be able to feed its own population. The level of self-sufficiency should therefore be maintained. Without agricultural subsidies, we would consume much more food imported from outside the EU, which we could not guarantee for its purity and environmentally friendly and ethical way of producing. An important element, i.e. the welfare of farm animals, would also be jeopardised without agricultural subsidies. The Animal Protection Act is being reformed, and although it is challenging, it needs to be better than the last animal welfare law about 20 years ago. After all, it is an issue of animal protection, that is, animal welfare. But at the same time, we also need to safeguard the future of our producers. Even now, Finnish farmers get along with very small earnings. As a result of the collapse of Russian trade and the delay in payment of production subsidies, many of the necessary investments cannot afford to be made. It would therefore be important that a greater proportion of the profit from the sale of food should go to Finnish primary producers. This would ensure the cleanliness of food, the good treatment of farmed animals and the environment of production. So there is a need to favour the people of Finland. Mr President! Food is one of the cleanest in the world. Our food is also ethically and environmentally sustainable. The good reputation of Finnish food must be maintained. That's our export asset. The Government is committed to promoting the profitability of Finnish food production in its programme. Profitability will be improved by means of loans, lower production costs and lower standards. Exports of Finnish food are also promoted by opening up export markets with the help of a key project. In addition, a local food programme will be implemented. So the government has not forgotten the farmers but is trying to promote the vitality of Finnish agriculture. Genetic modification is one of the most important dangers to the cleanliness and good reputation of our food. I hope that the ongoing FTA negotiations between the EU and the United States will not lead to: Mr President! In conclusion, I would like to send my best wishes to the negotiators of the EU Commission in Brussels that you should be very careful about this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u131	Mr President! Pure, healthy food is not a mere filling of the stomach but food for both the body and the mind. We Finns believe that this clean, best food is available in the countryside of Finland. Finnish food is not competing for price but for quality. Human awareness has increased and interest has been focused on products that are free of chemicals, hormones and transgenics. Young people in particular want to know the origin, ethics and ecologicality of food. Among herbicides, glyphosate is a substance that people do not want on their plates or on their skin. The previous government set national organic targets for Finland, which have been approved by the Sipilä Government in its programme. In 2020, 20% of the Finnish arable sector must be in organic production, while 20% of the food provided in public food services must be organic in 2020, while at present only 5% is organic. There is still a way to create the arable land sector to 20%, while only 9.4 per cent of Finland's arable land is now in organic production. In my own province we are above that average, as we already have 260 farms in South Savo from 2,200 farms. We produce organic vegetables, berries, organic milk, organic beef and sheep meat. Organic honey, cereals and muesli, as well as organic juices and marmalades are also produced. South Savo is known as the country’s leading producer of organic cabbage, organic carrot and organic onion. Agriculture employs, brings us tax revenue and improves our regional economy. There'll be more money left for the producers. Organic farms are more energy efficient than conventional farms and produce greenhouse gases one fifth less than normal farms. Organic farms also use feed produced on the farm rather than imported feed more than conventional farms. I therefore ask what the government intends to do to make it easier for farms to become an organic producer. To support the achievement of the organic objectives, the state founded the Organic Institute in Finland in 2012 in Mikkeli. Without state funding, the Institute's experts will not be able to work, and it is up to the government of the country to allocate sufficient, permanent funding to the Organic Institute. Do you think this funding is coming to next year's budget? When we voted on this year's budget, the government parties did not accept the SDP's proposal on the funding of the Organic Institute, but voted against it. I don't understand why. Mr President! Just fine words don't make a difference. The primary production of Finnish food is based on family farming, the ownership of the farm and the entrepreneurial spirit it inspires. There's always been a lot of work done on farms. There is now praise for this work here in the Chamber, but when we are in municipal council halls to decide on the budget to buy food for the municipality, there is no more sympathy, but money will solve the harm to the organic and local producer. Short-term savings obligations in central government and local government finances focus on ordering food, adding to the plight of producers. Here, too, Finland’s largest municipal party centre plays a key role. I hope that you will also follow your line in the council halls when deciding on money. Mr President! For example, the feeding of children, young people and the elderly is an essential part of the basic services provided by the municipality in day care, in schools,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u132	Mr President! I think it is very important that we can now have a debate on agriculture on the basis of this intermediate issue on the initiative of the Christian Democrats. I would also like to thank Mr Tiilikainen for his very serious attitude to this issue. In recent years, Finnish agriculture has been in crisis due to lower producer prices, import bans imposed by Russia, bad weather conditions and delays in payments. The profitability of agricultural enterprises has fallen and entrepreneurial income has fallen by 40% in a few years, which is the largest in the EU countries. At present, pig farms and dairy farms which have invested in debt money are facing the worst economic problems. If current developments continue, an increasing number of farmers will abandon their activities and new generations will no longer be prepared to continue their family farms. At the same time, jobs in the food industry are also being lost. At the beginning of March, thousands of farmers with their hundreds of tractors took over the streets of Helsinki. Farmers had good reason to expect that they would be listened to. The problems of Finnish agriculture are not a marginal issue that affects only a small part of the population. More than 200,000 jobs in Finland are at risk, and if the development continues, more and more farmers will abandon their activities and the new generations will not rise to continue the family farms. According to the Government Programme, the profitability of agriculture will be improved by pre-financing payments, lending, reducing production costs and lowering standards. Well, instead of advance payments, farmers have had to wait for late payments. Instead of lending, banks have closed their doors to farmers, and instead of breaking standards, bureaucracy is still quite heavy. That is why, together with the Greens, the Left Alliance and the RKP, this intermediate issue, the most powerful means of the opposition, was reached. Instead of ending Finnish agriculture, there is now a need for targeted measures to safeguard the conditions under which agriculture operates. In Finland, too, it must be possible to make a living with agriculture in the future, and Finns must continue to have the opportunity to eat clean local food produced by domestic producers. The aim must also be to ensure that the food chain is an important employer at all stages of the production chain. Food prices should be fairly distributed between trade, the food industry and primary production. Transparency is needed in this food chain so that the consumer can also genuinely choose a product from which the producer obtains an adequate fair margin. Farmers need less regulation and red tape, better road networks and telecommunications connections. For example, the potential for developing the bioeconomy depends entirely on the condition of the transport infrastructure. Finnish agriculture has undergone a radical restructuring in the last twenty years. The EU's common agricultural policy has brought with it a lot of bureaucracy and larger size. Although the EU has a common agricultural policy, it has no common food security and domestic food production remains important not only from the point of view of quality and safety but also to maintaining security of supply. Mr President! On these grounds, I support the motion of censure tabled by Mr Östman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u133	Mr President! It is good that this interim issue came so that we could discuss important agriculture. First, a couple of previous reps. Representative Tavitsainen raised the issue of glyphosate. I would like to inform this group that in Finland glyphosate is not used for forced fire, as is the case in other parts of Europe. There, glyphosate is injected, which kills the living crop, into grain before threshing, so that cereals do not need to be dried. I therefore urge all of you to ensure that both public food purchases and own food purchases favour swan flag products, so that glyphosate does not have to be eaten as ice. Mr Räsänen then drew attention to the fact that there was no change in the advance payments. It was just today that we heard about the start of 85% advance payments from next autumn. It is a very good step towards giving farmers support in real time. It is very good that, in accordance with the government programme, this farmers' crisis is now being tackled by means of loans. Of course, we would have preferred this to happen earlier, but it is good that the state guarantees come to liquidity loans and there will be financial relief for loans. Similarly, the dismantling of standards has started, it has been taken up, but I must say that there is so much work to be done there that in just a moment we will not be able to get that standard jungle right. In the next reform of the agricultural aid system as a whole, we must take account of this huge number of standards. I would argue that it no longer benefits anyone that the aid scheme has been tried with various equal opportunities in the name of justice. We need to turn the whole system into a completely different type, even if it hurts a little bit. But for this acute situation of farmers: The situation really sucks. In many farms no appropriate fertilizers or seeds have been purchased this spring. The farmer was and is still hanging with the terms and conditions of the aid and controls. For some, there is a limit to coping, and for the last time on some farms, domestic animals leave the farm this summer. Some farms even left home for the last time. This is not the farmer's fault. That is why we must do everything we can to resolve this acute crisis and then these larger lines later. That is why it is good that today, for example, we heard new news about what can be done against the farmer. We must work to ensure that price formation in the food chain becomes fair. After all, the situation at the moment is that, when it comes to perishable food, concentrated trade is giving way to food suppliers. It is good that Mr Tiilikainen has invited the entire food chain to negotiate at the same table, but I suspect that the road can also be difficult, although we have evidence, for example, regarding rye. After all, there was a situation where the price of rye was poor and no one was to cultivate it. The equity ratio was only a few dozen per cent. There was an eternal battle. The bakeries and mills said you can't get rye in Finland. But when the whole chain committed itself to returning rye production, the producer price rose, the varieties, the harvest and the quality and brand improved. In a few years, we were self-sufficient. However, I believe that this cannot happen in all sectors, and that is why I call for competition law to be opened if trade is not working properly. The relevant market is certainly not Finland today, but Europe as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u134	Mr President! The issue of the crisis in rural areas has been a topical one, and we have had a good debate here in the Chamber. Rural culture is a Finnish tradition that must be preserved as diverse as possible. Finns want to eat domestic food. It must be admitted that the situation in Finnish agriculture and domestic food production is not good. During this period of government, Russia must have had the greatest impact, but the crisis has taken place in the long term. Among other things, excessive control and guardianship have led to paralysis and bureaucracy. This has been particularly well seen in the past. The challenges facing rural entrepreneurship are mainly the same as those faced by other entrepreneurs. The costs are among the most expensive in Europe and the various environmental obligations and taxes are costly for the agricultural industry. In the rush of concentration, it has been forgotten that, in addition to agricultural subsidies, local services and transport connections are needed to maintain a vibrant countryside and entrepreneurship. There should be no concentration policy for environmental reasons. Viable villages have died as a result of centralisation of schools, post offices and commercial services. The benefits of concentration are often apparent. This development is a consequence of the wrong rural policy pursued by the state and the EU over several years to increase farm sizes. Now the government's line is to keep the country everywhere inhabited and vibrant. We'll see if that's true. The maintenance of agricultural production guarantees the maintenance of other jobs in the food sector. Finnish agriculture employs some 300,000 people, with its consequences. Support for agriculture has far-reaching implications. Without subsidies, jobs would be lost to the food industry and to many other indirect sectors and food would be increasingly imported from the world. In addition to ensuring food self-sufficiency, efforts must be made to increase protein feed and energy self-sufficiency and to meet the demand for organic products. Crisis preparedness and security of supply require investments in emergency storage. Finland has plenty of strengths that help maintain our national security of supply. This is an important motivation for us to support Finnish food production in every way. Agricultural production requires a long-term commitment from an entrepreneur. Investments will be made for ten years. Political decisions must be predictable and allow for the systematic development of the business economy and possible generational changes. Nor should construction be made more difficult. For example, the building permit for a new barn has had to wait for a really long time. The payment of subsidies must not be delayed. The producer’s share of the food price is insufficient, but the farmer has to pay his loans and bills on time. It is not just a question of the farmer's livelihood. If there's no money, you can't keep the farm going. The Government Programme sets out guidelines for improving the profitability of agriculture, including through simplification of support schemes. They are in the right direction, but they are not just enough now that the EU-Russia sanctions and EU agricultural reform have disrupted the market. That is where we must now make a strong effort. The policy of sanctions should be put to an end. In addition, public food procurement should be competitive on the same terms as required for Finnish food. Mr President! It is essential to keep the countryside alive and to safeguard the conditions for farmers to operate, as domestic, clean local food is growing in the countryside.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u135	Mr President! We have spoken very beautifully and well today about what Finnish food production means for all of us, and it seems that this concern for people's survival has been shared quite a bit in this Chamber. What has been mentioned many times in many good speeches is that Finnish food production is entirely dependent on the good reputation of Finnish food. Finnish people trust that food produced in this country is clean and ethical. People are happy to support the natives, people are happy to pay a higher price for it because they believe that everything is fine. However, people are increasingly and more concerned about whether everything is all right. People are more concerned about how animals on farms can, and people want to improve the status of animals. And the good reputation that Finnish food has gained cannot afford to be put at risk. The Finnish Animal Protection Act is over 20 years old at this stage, and research on animal welfare has since revolutionised our understanding of animals. That is why I think it is extremely good that the Animal Protection Act is currently being reformed. However, this reform has raised great concerns during last autumn and this spring, and many questions have arisen as to whether the objective of improving animal welfare is a genuine one. We know that Finnish animal welfare legislation is lagging behind other Nordic countries, and our legislation no longer corresponds to research on what the needs of farmed animals are. I must say that we in the animal welfare group in Parliament have been rather disappointed that Minister Tiilikainen has not once found even half an hour to discuss animal welfare or the reform of the animal welfare law with the animal welfare group in Parliament. Especially when this is linked to the fact that so far the decisions taken by the government do not promise animals a great deal of good, the concern is becoming rather great. In the early years, the regulation on fur that was previously promised to Parliament will improve the conditions for fur animals so much that there is no need to ban fur farming in this country. And right after this, we were told that the post of animal welfare agent will no longer be extended. Mr President! In order to maintain this good reputation for Finnish food, clear steps must be taken in the protection of farmed animals when this new law is brought to us. The animals must be allowed to carry out the species-specific behaviour that we know is necessary for them. Asparagus and sow cages restrict movement must be banned and fur farming must be abolished. We must protect animals from unnecessary suffering, and therefore painful measures which are painful for animals without pain relief must be banned. These measures include, for example, snorting, or burning the horns’ beginnings with calves, or castration with piglets, sheep, and reindeer. People have to trust that everything is fine in animal farms and slaughterhouses, and that is why the controls must be in order. Norms must help farmers, but they must not undermine the welfare of animals on farms. Mr President! The survival of farmers is important not only for these people's own well-being but also for animals. You have to be able to rest, and people have to go on vacation. Producers and farmers are burdened with these problems of coping and constant concern about their own livelihoods. And when a person is tired, it is difficult for him to take care of those whom he should take care of. So by taking care of people we also take care of animals. And I myself think that society's civilisation is measured by how we treat the weakest, and that is why I think that we, as legislators, have a great duty to take care of our animal welfare law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u136	Mr President! Again, the kicking of the one lying on the green ground continues. They want more standards, more obligations that would take away payment entitlements. If we have more animal welfare legislation, we will not be able to pay welfare compensation for the same things, and the income of the farmer will be reduced again. They are concerned as to whether there will be enough money for new officials when the post of temporary Commissioner for Animal Protection was terminated. The most important thing was that there should be officials; the most important thing is not that animal welfare should be improved, for example, through the survival of farmers. Representative Vartia has said on several occasions that the entire vacation system must be driven down. This is the green line at the other mouth, and now we are so pious at the other side of the mouth to preserve the vacation system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u137	Mr President! Did I understand, Mr Kari, that you are opposed to cutting down calves?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u140	Mr President! Mr Kari gave a speech quite in line, and one important point was that people's well-being, care providers' well-being, is hand in hand with animal welfare. That's right. But I am also surprised that there was criticism of the failure to carry out the role of the animal welfare agent. In the autumn, when we still had this animal welfare ombudsman, the post, the person on the spot, he did not take a position on the changes in the system of leave, on the fact that if producers' relief services were to be undermined. It would have been a place for a thousand dollars to say that the welfare of a nurse is equal to increasing animal welfare.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u141	Mr President! Even Finnishness does not automatically guarantee the civilised treatment of animals. It requires that we have the laws and the supervision in place. And, yes, consumers are aware that slaughter animals have also been treated cruelly and violently in Finland. This is also very unpleasant and detestable for farmers of farmed animals who have done the right thing and treated animals in a good and proper way, and this also ruins their reputation. In other words, there is also a need for greater transparency and control. For example, one good way would be to install video surveillance systems in slaughterhouses.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u142	Reply, Mr Kari, just over 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u143	Mr President! It is a bit sad in itself that when you talk about animal welfare, then it immediately gets this kind of reaction from the center, when precisely the question is that we use our legislation as the basis for the latest research knowledge. I did not at any point, of course, speak out against the slump, but I talked to the animals about painful measures without pain relief, so it is a little sad that the representative in this way distorts what has been said in this Chamber when the common goal of all of us should be that both animals and people on these farms are doing well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u144	Mr President! In the name of animal welfare, the greens have mainly disrupted the agricultural industry. And we're worried about animal welfare here. How can we not be concerned about these halal slaughters, which are truly repugnant to the torture of animals? It will not be taken into account in any way, but such lilykanvars will be interfered with, such as fur farming and animal behavior in those farms and so on. People in rural areas take care of animals, because they produce the best when they are good. But how has this sort of halal slaughter, which is very repulsive, left you completely out of it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u145	Mr President! The Government Programme states that this period will not impose any new cost obligations. We have the most stringent animal protection legislation in the world, and of course we are still reviewing it, but I appeal to everyone in this Chamber to understand that, as we introduce new obligations in legislation, welfare compensation cannot be paid for the same things, for example, and that is why the current regulations are already very bureaucratic and complicated. And then to the representative of this violation of the slaughtering cases and other regulations: It does not call for new legislation to be introduced in violation of the law. Yes, according to their former rules, the improper treatment of animals is wrong. And then from the surveillance cameras: they are even installed there, but I was just wondering if we would like to have a surveillance camera in our own office, for example, for continuous monitoring. Raise your hand, whoever wants it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u146	In this debate, I will give the floor to the representatives of Mr Hakanen, Mr Mikkonen and Mr Heikkinen, and if, after that, Mr Kari, from which this debate started, wishes to make a reply, then I will give it to him as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u147	Mr President! Representative Kari pointed out that the debate on animals will start in the centre with some sort of counter-effect. Perhaps it is true that, at least in this debate today, there have been downtown producers talking. We know in detail how that legislation and animal welfare go hand in hand. A healthy animal is a productive animal. We cannot think of it as being indifferent to the animal. We meet many criteria; we really take care of that animal also when we are at the limit of our own endurance. If we are talking about legislative changes — the ban on asparagus, the ban on fur farming, the ban on sow cages — only one small example is that animals in a fur farm are processed animals, they cannot survive in nature. And when you think of the sow cage, even though it is now the first days of the sow, I feel that it is well-being, that it can be at peace as an individual, instead of fighting in a group stall and repeating its pregnancy in three weeks' time. This is well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u148	Mr President! In this Chamber, I think everyone will share the common hope that our farmers will be able to do better. We know from the studies that farmers experience their work both physically and mentally, and this is quite different from many other entrepreneurs who usually experience one or the other. For farmers, this work is hard both physically and mentally for a large part, and the crisis situation in recent times has only made it worse. At the same time, we also know that when the farmer is doing well, he is able to take care of his animals, and usually these problems have been at the farms where the farmer has not been able to. That is why we all share this and it is important that this be addressed, and it is good that this was discussed today. But at the same time, of course, we have to make sure that we have animals well,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u149	Mr President! Mr Kari, I did not distort but I asked a specific question: do you think that calves should not be cut down? You made it clear that you meant not without pain relief. For example, in our home farm almost a hundred calves a year are laid down. Every single drop should be performed by a veterinarian through pain relief and anesthesia. Since those animals are our most important and closest colleagues, we take care of them as well as possible, because only a healthy animal, in our case the cattle, the dairy cow, will become a productive animal. In the yard, where they are allowed to travel freely, the animal must function at every point. For that cow to eat herself, it has to have healthy legs, with healthy feet you go to the robot itself to milk and with healthy feet you go to your own part. A sick animal doesn't move, it doesn't eat when it's time to eat. I'll invite you to our farm in Kiuruvesi to see how we take care of the animals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u150	Well, let us give Mr Kalmar a reply, and then Mr Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u151	Mr President! Still for that downpour. I appeal to the Greens now, too, because many of these presentations come from those who, for example, aim to put an end to all livestock production, so that you keep your head cold, for example, on this issue of downhilling, in such a way that today, when there are anaesthetics that do not need to be injected intravenously, this nudding can then be carried out on the farm, a small farm, where the cost becomes rather excessive with the visit of a veterinarian. The value of the calf is well below what is at its worst value, so that it can then be carried out by the farmer himself. So you will then support this kind of common sense proposals if they come from there in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u152	Mr President! Thank you for inviting me to Kiuruvesi. I'd love to meet you there. The most important thing in this debate is that we really, genuinely listen to each other and not just base our interpretations on images of what the other person is saying, but that we are genuinely trying to find a consensus on these issues. Perhaps I would say to Mr Hakkarainen that the Greens have always demanded stunning before slaughter, so this argument is not true. Then perhaps one more comment on this question of the breeding cage. What is essential is not how we or the producers experience the situation, but precisely that we go through the latest research on how animals feel, how they experience, what causes suffering, and we base our legislation on researched knowledge, not on our perceptions of things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u153	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u154	Mr President! No one knows how many more chickens, pighouses, barns or other production buildings this autumn's darkness will light the lights. This uncertainty is part of everyday life and everyday life in many farms. I believe and know that, even now, anyone who is planning to stop production has always wanted to be a producer of domestic food with all his heart. The burden is only growing too great today. This weekend, a producer told his own story. The pig is now emptying into Midsummer, the producer is allowed to breathe for a few days. Normally, new pigs enter the pig farm almost immediately with a delay of a few days. That's what the production contracts are all about. But now the situation is such that there is no grain in stock, there is no money in the account, we have to wait for the autumn harvest — a mandatory three-month holiday. We are facing major challenges. Input prices have risen while producer prices are only falling. Russia has imposed sanctions against us, as we know. Investments in farms have been frozen, electricity is cut from production buildings due to unpaid bills, fields were sown in spring without fertilizers and almost everything else has been compromised. Every day we hear and read bad news about these fates. More farmers are already telling us about these today. I am also extremely concerned about those young people who live in rural areas who see all this close and even become surrogates. Can we at least imagine the image of rural, rural entrepreneurship or entrepreneurship that a youth usually gets when he sees the constant pressure of his parents, the anxiety, the fear of supervision, all the pain that is there in everyday life from morning to night, the huge threshold of returning to the countryside after studies or starting a business if, above all, there is only the misery and despair associated with them. Mr President! It is clearly time to assume responsibility. From the status of the legislator, the main feeling of all of this is inadequacy. It is present every single day, and concrete steps must now be taken to save this traditional industry. A few ideas about future action. First of all, we must get the producer a crisis package for this emergency, which Mr Tiilikainen was preparing. Contrary to what has been said today that the assembly can be trusted, the amending budget package now seems to have been caught up with them in the spring. Today there are also guidelines on working capital loans. The rapid implementation of these measures must now be mobilised in the coming weeks. Secondly, the abolition or, at the very least, reduction of the property tax on production buildings already mentioned must be considered. In terms of the size of this tax relief, it would also be useful to take into account the ever-increasing private road charges on farms. The size of the farm is increasing, the number of private road kilometres is increasing. Measures similar to the abolition of the property tax would also be a reduction in the electricity and fuel taxation of farms. The possibilities for implementing these should also be explored. The labelling of origin must be clarified. The competitive advantages of domestic food must be clear to the consumer. Legislation to support this must be pushed through this period. A lot of clean food is produced in Finland, and this benefit must also be used as effectively as possible in our food exports. Legislation must be made as robust as possible and barriers removed. I am surprised, for example, that competition law does not currently allow a situation in which two meat houses decide to set up a joint export company that would import and export over-production meat, for example, to China. These bottlenecks need to be removed. The Government's policy on the Procurement Act on state procurement in food procurement is correct and must be implemented quickly, and it must also be brought into the text of the Procurement Act and then brought into all public procurement. Mr President! These proposals to improve the situation very quickly are now, among other things, needed by agriculture, and we have every chance of achieving them if we can get this whole Chamber behind us. It is also necessary to ensure that additional costs are borne out by the government programme, which will definitely ensure that they do not come to agriculture. The Government Programme is good for agriculture,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u155	Mr President! Even though I'm a congressman, I'm also a milk farm hostess from Kiuruvesi. Our status in the quail is 1694. Our Nestor son would be 12. a link as the master of the farm. However, both we and many other generations of Finnish food producers are in danger of breaking the chain. The situation of farmers in Finland is historically weak. One problem after another is on the shoulders of farmers: the fall in producer prices, the counter-constraints of Russia, the delay in payment of subsidies and last year's poor weather crop in many places. As I told you in that debate, last year the hourly salary of an agricultural entrepreneur was low at EUR 3,30 per hour. I ask how many of you would be willing to work around the year, sometimes 24 hours a day, on such a salary, when that poor cow can't match her calvings to official time, and now many masters and hostesses are making their crop 24 hours a day out of the rain. If Finland were to work everywhere for hourly agricultural wages and efficiency, our cost level would be by far the most competitive in the world and our country would wrinkle in the trade surplus. Mr President! There are distress calls all over Finland. Young people in particular, newly-invested farmers most urgently need help with their debts. This is a matter common to the whole of Finland. Farmers must be helped if we want to continue to eat domestic, clean and safe food. It must be borne in mind that support for domestic food production is also part of the security policy, as it safeguards our security of supply. I am grateful to the opposition for this intermediate issue, which shows that you too have been awakened to the plight of producers and understood the importance of domestic agriculture. Well, I hope we don't hear any more barking about supporting the barn pecking. It may be that this crisis will continue throughout the parliamentary term, so the commitment of the opposition will give the government courage and strength to act. A few more words about Finnish food. Mr President! If we want to maintain Finnish food production, the most important factor in this is the Finnish consumer. Currently, between 2.5 and 3 times more food is imported into Finland than we manage to export abroad. As has already been said in this Chamber today, the distortion of domestic consumption is mainly due to the concentration of trade and the greed of the retail chains. The price of food they invented is mainly a big scam. If the price of the product has been reduced, it will be taken back from elsewhere. However, the price paid to the producers is dictated: take it or leave it. With these words, I would like to say that the biggest decision-maker in the future of a Finnish farmer is the Finnish people. It decides what to put in your shopping cart at the shelves. If the only criterion for buying is always the cheapest price, domestic clean food will not survive. However, when buying Finnish milk and meat and other products, we can be sure that we will not get traces of antibiotics or hormones or other poisons. Cereals, berries and vegetables and other natural products are grown in a clean environment using clean methods. By eating Finnish food, you will not lose your health; that too is worth something. Finally, Mr President, on the issue of leave. Lomitus is an exceptionally effective system for ensuring the well-being of animal holdings. When the hostess and host are well, the studies show that the animals are also better off. Deterioration of the relief system would be a direct reduction in the availability of domestic antibiotic- and hormone-free, lower pesticide levels and in many ways more responsible food produced in Europe and in the welfare of farmed animals. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Tiilika at this stage for the words and actions you promised to take forward quickly in your opening speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u156	Mr President! During this discussion, it may be said that for once a young man who grew up in the countryside has felt good when there are plenty of friends in the countryside. Finland has some 50,000 farms and some 300,000 jobs in this food chain. These are the basic fundamentals that need to be borne in mind. The economic situation of agricultural holdings in recent years has gone down very fast. The reason is, of course, first of all the sanctions imposed by the European Union on Russia, which then imposed sanctions against Russia. Russia has announced that the duration of the sanctions will be until the end of 2017, and with some sense of determination of the Russian policy, I might guess that the sanctions will be maintained. Of course they are sometimes dismantled, but Finland, in these Russian sanctions, is the biggest sufferer in all the countries of the European Union. Finland has received some compensation from the EU in order to facilitate the sanctions imposed, but unfortunately most of them went somewhere else too. The European Union's own quota policy has also fed on Finland's agriculture, which has, of course, been a tough place for the northern state. In Finland, the bureaucracy of agriculture has been pushed to the limit. This has already been fairly well dismantled in the course of this government, and I hope that the Minister, now that he is here, will continue to do so with courage and without hesitation. It's the right way. We have to get rid of the unnecessary costs. Finland must become more and more active towards the European Commission, so that we can dismantle these unnecessary bureaucracy and at the same time save money. I am still wondering why the Rural Office does not have computer programs in order to ensure that payments can be made quickly. A good friend of mine is a top computer man. I asked him how quickly to get those things right. He said that if he starts designing a computer program, he'll guarantee that in less than a month there'll be such a program that it'll play. This has now been twisted and twisted and translated, and the result is this. I still wonder if this kind of payment will not be made in this country. When Natura was originally planned for Finland, there was an explanation from the Ministry of the Environment for me when I didn't get the maps that they had printing problems. What was behind it? What was behind it was that they didn't want to give me information about my own condition, that the truth was revealed, that I was lied to. — I am sorry, President, I was told false information, Bioeconomy is an important part of the future of Finnish rural areas, and if we do not get bigger stakes in the bioeconomy than we do today, we will be in a situation where we will then have to import food and many other things. Bioeconomy is a real possibility, but it requires a common understanding, first of all, that agriculture is given a genuine chance to grow, that we are increasingly using our own food and processing it and that we are selling it abroad more and more, because cleanness will certainly succeed in the future in the world. Renewable energy is also our chance, but I am a little sad about what is happening in Finland at the moment. After all, the sustainability criteria for renewable energy are currently being put in place in the European Union, and so Finnish politicians will soon have to decide what criteria we want to take forward in this country in that EU. I have already heard the first speeches from the Green League, for example, that the whole of Finland's forest growth would not be the sustainable growth part of which could be... Finland's biggest position and the position of farmers and forest owners is clear and also the government's position that the growth of forests as a whole must be utilised 100% according to sustainability criteria, the 105 million mots per year. But I have already heard speeches saying that this is not the case. Yes, Finland must make a determined effort to ensure that the growth of forests as a whole can be used to the benefit of this country and, above all, to create more work and livelihood for the countryside. Finnish rural areas are not saved by anything other than Finnish work and Finnish agriculture. The living landscapes we have seen from the car window when we drive on the roads are precisely the good work of agricultural and forestry operators. If we do not take care of our own fields and forests, then no one in the European Union will do that for us. Mr President! Finally, when it comes to agricultural subsidies and many other red tape in agriculture, it should be borne in mind that any aid that is distributed to farms will ultimately benefit consumers as cheaper food. Agricultural subsidies are no specific help for farmers, they are cheaper food for consumers, and that is why we must defend Finnish agriculture so that we can eat our own clean foods instead of importing them from abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u157	Mr President! Mr Hokkonen mentioned the green and bioeconomy sustainability criteria. This is where the delegation from the large committee visited Brussels recently, and yes, we were all strongly speaking for Finnish bioenergy in order to obtain sustainability criteria that also support sustainable forest use. But it is also in Finland's interest that we have sustainability criteria, so that sustainable energy takes precedence over more unsustainable imported energy, and biodiversity is also a value. There must be certain limits; we cannot completely empty all the forests of rivet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u158	Mr President! This is precisely how sustainability criteria are created, but I have heard those speeches specifically from the party represented by Mr Karimäki and from the mouth of some experts that when renewable energy is harvested from Finnish forests it will take a hundred years before a new tree grows to replace its felled tree. That's not true, it's completely misleading. Of course, when the forest is thinned, the wood that has been taken out of the forest is no longer there, but the growth power that is in the soil after that is concentrated and growing in the remaining ones. So this is the basic thing in Finland, but when you want to challenge things and you want to show them that you are destroying nature and that when you cut down a tree it can even feel pain, you can say that Finnish wood is not on a sustainable basis when it is cut down and produced into Finnish energy. That is why I would like to see consensus in this country on these issues. If we don't fix our own economy, there's no point in crying.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u159	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u160	Mr President! I would also like to begin by saying that this issue of the crisis in Finnish agriculture is particularly important. That question text has very well opened up the causes that have led to this deep plight of Finnish agriculture today. However, it would be essential to work together to find ways of overcoming the crisis, first and then, in a sustainable way, so that agriculture and the Finnish food economy can continue to provide strong support for our national economy. We must remember that the agricultural and food sector, as an industry that replaces imports and strengthens exports, based on domestic labour and raw materials, is the most efficient sector to strengthen our current account. And for few — well, of course, they too seem to be — there is a need to justify the importance of domestic food production to Finland’s security of supply. The text on the mid-term question therefore gives a good assessment of the causes of the crisis in agriculture. However, it is essential to find the means to bring the crisis to an end and to take long-term, profitable action, while there are very few ways to do so in this interim text. Similarly, Minister Tiilikainen went through the Government's efforts to improve the operating conditions for agriculture in a very detailed manner in his reply. The list was quite a long one, and one can say that in any case more has been achieved in the year than in the last government term, in four years, in total. In other words, there has been more support funding, less bureaucracy, a great deal of infrastructure funding, including road maintenance, increased capitalisation of Makera and so on. Among other things, it is worth noting that some of the measures proposed in the intermediate question have already been decided on the acute cash crisis in the farms, the financial position. The interest rate on late payment of MYEL pension contributions will also be temporarily reduced and additional resources allocated to farmers for the implementation of the aid, and a number of measures are to be taken, and this should be the case. In this context, I also raise the hat on the influence of the government on the EU. It has at last been the same in many ways in this government as it should have been in the previous government, when the EU legislation that is now being applied and also the levels of support were adopted. In particular, I have been delighted by the efforts made under the leadership of the Prime Minister and Minister Tiilikainen to stabilise the EU market and increase producer subsidies. There is, of course, still a huge amount to be done here, and the overproduction situation in the EU must, once and for all, be resolved in some way. The agricultural crisis, as has been said, is deep. It is, of course, wonderful that the parliamentary parties here have taken on board the situation well. Last year was exceptionally difficult for the weather too. Fortunately, this spring, early summer, has been more favourable to agriculture, but despite the weather, it is clear that the economic concerns of farms are great and the future seems far too uncertain. In this situation, it should be pointed out that, in addition to politics and weather, there are other very important factors which play an important role in the agricultural situation — the reasons which have already been raised here on many occasions, including the campaign to reduce food prices. These disparate campaigns have been, I dare say, a grotesque crown for the long-standing domination of stores in relation to food producers, agriculture and processing. It is clear that stores must assume their responsibilities to ensure the future of Finnish food, and perhaps there are small signs of this as well. Like many here, I have made a positive note of MTK's exits during the deep crisis in agriculture. In his blog published on Sunday, President Juha Marttila also says that "the crisis, when handled correctly, can provide opportunities for improving the competitiveness of Finnish agriculture". This is an example of an attitude that should also be found in Parliament instead of image politics. I would also like to turn this intermediate issue into a positive one, in that it is through this procedure that the opposition wants to commit itself to the issue of agriculture, and I hope that when the government makes proposals to improve the profitability of agriculture, the opposition will, in accordance with the spirit of this intermediate issue, support these proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u161	Mr President! I would like to quote a few words from the intermediate question: 'If the trend continues, it will lead to an increasing number of farmers abandoning their activities and will no longer be ready for the new generations to continue the family farm business. This development would have a devastating impact on the security of supply in Finland. Finland cannot afford to run down agriculture or diminish the vitality of rural areas." The intermediate issue also states that 'the basis for sustainable food production is a well-being and able producer with resources and capacity to take good care of animals and other production'. On the left, there is a lot of noise about animal rights. Of course, that noise is very selective. It is directed only at farmers in Finland who work to support their families, possibly to employ others and, above all, to produce us clean Finnish food. Mr President! In today's debate, for example, Mr Sarkkinen was concerned about asparagus and the animal welfare laws under way. Mr Karimäki also stressed the rights of animals, such as mobility, stimulation and the possibility of species-like behaviour. However, neither they nor other green left-wingers seem to be interested in Article 33b of the Animal Welfare Act. On 19 May, we discussed Mr Ronkainen's legislative initiative to amend it. For the bill prohibiting halal slaughter, there are only signatories from the Finns Party and the city centre. Fifteen speeches were made, all of them from Peru. I am surprised that there were no animal activists at all in the public debate on the bill, even though it was intended to ban the cruel and barbaric way of slaughter. Over the years, activists have made countless attacks on farms of Finnish farmers. They have infiltrated the private property of farmers, damaged their property, blacked out the reputation of these people through campaigns. In the name of animal welfare, they have disrupted the livelihoods of farmers. So where are the videos of halal slaughter in Finland? Why is there silence on the left, even though this painful animal cruelty is growing in Finland? Mr President! As my esteemed representative, Mr Östman, said, the need for additional appropriations is acute and the government should have already taken it into account in its 2016 actual budget and, at the latest, in its draft amending budget for this year. I agree with Mr Östman. It is shameful that Finnish farmers and many others are forced to tighten their purses and some Finns are even in danger of becoming inconsolable, as many representatives, including Heikkinen, have described here. I wonder, therefore, that we have just found 230 million tonnes for immigration, asylum tourism. It supports terrorism and trafficking in human beings. It's weird, isn't it? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u162	Mr President! Mr Hakkarainen raised the issue of animal protection, and the Green League has always called for the animals to be stunned before slaughter. However, it makes sense to move forward on animal welfare issues through a comprehensive reform of the Animal Protection Act, making use of widely studied information and reference points to neighbouring countries. In Sweden, for example, asparagus has already been banned. In Finland, the Animal Welfare Act is 20 years old. There has been a debate in this Chamber about when the reform of the animal welfare law will be brought to the table, and now that the Minister has: Tiilikainen has arrived in the box, and it would be good to hear from him what stage the reform of the Animal Protection Act is taking. A lot of work and studies were already carried out during the last period. When is the law coming to the parliamentary hearing?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u163	Mr President! Mr Karimäki raised the issue of the reform of the Animal Protection Act again, and the Parsinas, in particular, came up. I just want to make it clear here that we have new barns all the time built into courtyards. Quite a few new asparagus are no longer even planned, let alone built, some are still being made in a year. We must have this natural opportunity for an entrepreneur to move from one production method to another. If we by law ban the keeping of a cow tied to a parsin tree in some year's time, it's a pretty tough blow for an entrepreneur who's been milking first-class milk from that beard for 30 years. Yes, a natural alternative must be given and given in such a way as to encourage, encourage, highlight the positive aspects of the yard, and in this way they are directed towards the free movement side.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u164	One more response to the author of this debate, Mr Hakkarainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u165	Thank you, Mr President. To Karimäki, why didn't you sign Mr. Ronkainen's bill? That's where it would have been renewed, and the opinion would have been expressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u166	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u167	Mr President! The profitability of agriculture is in a difficult crisis. The issue of agriculture is not decisively promoted by occasional crisis packages, as they certainly are. There is a need for permanent and diverse solutions in which the euro speaks to the whole industry. Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's government was hit by the helm in a situation where agricultural income support policies had been made binding until the end of 2020. Support policy is now going along these lines, and I think it is well known in this House that there will be no national derogations to the fund-based policies decided by the EU Commission in practice except through de minimis aid in the form of so-called crisis packages in the EU. Even the crisis packages are under the rock. After the government cancelled the minor cuts in the Government Programme this spring, Finland's agriculture will receive income support this year and next year as they negotiated and decided by Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen and Prime Minister Alexander Stubb's governments. So it is now up to each of us to assess whether the outcome of the negotiations was sufficient. To be precise, it was even decided to increase the national income support for agriculture by EUR 13.4 million in this spring's budgetary plan. From the Fund for the Development of Agricultural Products, Makera is paid agricultural investment grants and start-up aid for young farmers. During the last parliamentary term, not a cent of the state budget was transferred to Makera. The Government of Prime Minister Sipilä decided to include a EUR 90 million transfer to Makera in its key projects. With this transfer, Makera can continue its financing operations as usual during this parliamentary term. Without the move made, Makera would have withered away in a quick pace. Mr President! There has not been a debate here today on fiscal policy instruments, although the Government Programme's tax policies contain a number of positive policies for the owner. Some of these also apply to farmers and forestry entrepreneurs. The reduction of entrepreneurs is planned to be implemented extensively from the beginning of 2017. According to the Government Programme, business and professional activities, agricultural and forestry operators, tax associations and personnel companies are involved. It is a good idea to hope that entrepreneurship reduction will also take place in the case of farmers and forestry entrepreneurs as it is clearly written in the Government Programme. The transfer tax on fixed assets is a major obstacle to the holding of agricultural limited liability companies. According to the Government Programme, the transfer tax will be abolished in situations where the trader or professional or agricultural and forestry operator transfers assets to a private or limited company in the event of a change in the form of a company, in particular immovable property. This reform, which is unfortunately being postponed until 2018, is particularly important for agriculture. As with other family companies, share ownership is also a megatrend in agriculture in the next few years. The Government wants to promote entrepreneurial forestry. The best way to do this is to increase the forest reduction, which is intended to reduce the cost of purchasing trees from the sales income of wood. When the income from the sale of wood is 100% taxable income, it is fair and logical that the purchase costs of the timber should also be fully reduced. The approximately EUR 20 million recorded in the Government Programme could increase the forest reduction from the current 60% to the level corresponding to the cost of forest procurement, or 95%. The increase in forest reduction would apply to those engaged in business-like professional forestry in Finland as a whole. It concerns both agricultural forest owners and urban forest owners. A draft Government proposal for a forestry gift reduction has been prepared in the Ministry of Finance during the consultation. This proposal is extremely bureaucratic, based on the conditions of the forest industry and only concerns urban forest owners who own a larger forest sector. This proposal would not improve in the case of Mr Berner either, to which it should, of course, be sent immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u168	Madam President! Finland joined the European Union from the beginning of 1995. Before that, we had very difficult and long negotiations on the terms of membership. In those accession negotiations, agriculture was the most sensitive issue, partly regional policy. As far as agriculture was concerned, it was very violent and it took many nights when those things were twisted at home and then Ministers Salolainen and Haavisto in Brussels tried to bring things to a reasonable level in Finland's interests. At that time, Finland built membership on our security, and it may be thought that this has happened, even though the EU is not a security community in itself. But as far as agriculture was concerned, those evil fears were then felt by farmers — those who then provoked provocations, or not provocations, but demonstrations, on the steps of the Parliament House, and so on — that Finnish agriculture cannot adapt to the EU's common agricultural policy. I was also convinced that the great difficulties, and even eventually the destruction of Finnish agriculture, are on the way in some time. However, with membership, we gave our decision-making power to the EU, in which we are then involved in decision-making, but as one very small factor there. Agricultural policy in the EU is conducted under the conditions of the countries of the South and Central Europe. Finland is quite different. We would need a different agricultural policy than what we have now, but here we are. In 2004, 10 Member States entered the European Union, including the Baltic States and Poland. As far as agricultural subsidies are concerned, they were granted a transitional period of 13 years, I think. It has now come to an end some time ago, so that, for the moment and for a few years now, the Baltic countries and Poland, among others, have received full agricultural subsidies and have come to the market with agricultural products that they produce more cheaply, and this is a factor in the major difficulties facing Finland at the moment. Negotiations took place between 2009 and 2010 in which a significant part of the actual payments to farmers — I can say that the decisive part — was transferred to rural aid, i.e. farmers lost and rural policy received more funding. These subsidies have meant cuts to agriculture and thus difficulties for primary agriculture have increased especially in Finland. At the same time, it was decided to abolish milk quotas, which happened more than a year ago, and it was also a fatal decision for Finland. I remember that when it was discussed in some parts of Parliament, it was then seen that we were about to get into a difficult seam. These two factors alone — or three factors, initially membership and then the transfer of aid and the abolition of milk quotas — are already largely explained by the fact that we are in this difficult crisis, where the Finnish peasant is today. There were also Russian sanctions, and then there were many domestic factors that have been mentioned here: trade, computer programs, weather and so on. In other words, we are in a very difficult situation, in a crisis, both at the moment and from the perspective of the future, with regard to agricultural policy as a whole. The Government is preparing a crisis package for autumn. It's very important. If the government does not do so, there is no reason to trust it, but I believe that it will, and that is how farmers will survive this crisis. But EU policy is a question of fate for Finnish agriculture. It has been the wrong direction for a long time from the perspective of Finland. Agricultural policy is extremely rigid. As Mr Kiviranta has just said, these policies have actually been closed down until 2020, and it is extremely difficult to make changes to them. The Finnish countryside is therefore the target of a landing. Young people are probably not very eager to take over farms, and there are about 300,000 jobs in the entire food chain, which means that it really affects Finland in a significant way. Unfortunately, the future is rather unpleasant in terms of agriculture and the Finnish food economy. I hope that the government and all of us will be able to fight so that we can eat domestic, clean food and that farmers will have the livelihood and future that belongs to them in this society and that they deserve.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u169	Madam President! The Greens have today put forward an objection to the Government's proposal for a budgetary plan. In that protest we will also draw our attention to the unprecedented crisis in Finnish agriculture. Our opinion is worded as follows: "The government requires that the crisis package presented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in support of Finnish agriculture be granted by the Government and, at the same time, undertake structural reforms to develop Finnish agricultural production and improve its profitability." I hope that there will be broad support and support for this proposal here in Parliament. Madam President! In Sweden and Germany, for example, farmers have received additional income from renewable energy. Could it also be thought in Finland that the feed-in tariff will also be extended to support the smallest form of energy production? This would support the development of the domestic energy market and improve security of supply. For example, if small-scale combined heat and power generation were profitable, the circular economy would also take a leap forward. Over a year’s hay, harvesting trees and animal waste are valuable raw materials if we can also make them profitable for energy production. Net metering enables real-time monitoring of energy use, and if hosts and wives were properly compensated for the extra electricity they supplied to the grid, it would increase revenue and improve energy efficiency. Madam President! There has also been a lot of talk in this Chamber today about biogas. If we want to make more use of biogas in transport, we need both users and producers and, of course, distribution points. I hope that the government could still consider abolishing the power tax on biogas cars. I believe that the positive effects of this proposal on the regional economy and the bioeconomy are sufficiently significant to cover the proceeds from the power tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u170	Madam President! Sanctions and sanctions have fallen on farmers and other primary producers. Adding the matter of fashion to this, the life of the farmer has been made quite difficult. The marketing trick has not been financed or financed from the marketing budget of either the S Group or the K Group. Farmers were picked up for payment. Cheap food is available in all shops. Of course it is in the interests of the consumer, but it is unfortunately the farmer's loss. Mr President! The plight of agriculture has been further compounded by the transfer of 200 million over the turn of the year and by the money of 80 million transferred by Mav to the later date. Just because it's paid doesn't make it any easier. It may be difficult to seek the blame for Mavi's actions, but I believe that it should be clarified, because this is not the way to treat the Finnish farmer, not even from Mav's side or from the officials. Officials shall carry out their duties and carry out their duties within the time limits laid down. It must be remembered that even if the money now comes into the accounts, it is no longer worth it than it had been in the past. In the meantime, there have been bear invoices for producers, more to pay, more interest. The bank has not been in any way favourable, on the contrary, in this difficult situation the banks have tightened their own terms. That is why I have been thinking that, if this is the case, the aid already granted cannot be paid because the officials are unable to carry out their duties, then the State must come to the aid. Even in this situation, the State could have done so by lending to farmers and other producers the money that they would receive as a subsidy, because the State would have received it back because it is a certain income because it has already been granted and will come at some point. Perhaps it would be possible to get things moving a little bit if the state were behind it and demanded that things be taken care of. Mr President! Security of supply is important to every country, and so is we. At the moment, however, we cannot be sure that our security of supply for food will remain. Already at the moment, Central European rye is imported into Finland by container stores and ready-made dough is also imported, which will then be sold to us as fresh bread. It's not fresh, it's just fried in the store. We have only one producer, and it is a domestic producer who actually makes the dough in Finland and even on the same day when it is baked, and it is our oldest producer, Fazer, who is everywhere — and of course the small bakeries that exist all over the country, it must be remembered. Mr President! We heard from Minister Tiilikainen that the government has now seen and understood the plight of the countryside. The government has also decided to support agriculture in particular. This is the right way, but how long will it help if the Russian exports do not start pulling? Personally, I am skeptical about the next few years, for example five years, that exports to Russia should rise again. Why? Well, as a result of these sanctions, there are already new importers in Russia, and I think that the most important new importer is currently Belarus, which, and to which there are no sanctions from Russia or countermeasures. Finland too would have had the opportunity to establish trade relations with Belarus. Then we would not have to wonder where Belarus, for example, picks up the salmon it takes to Russia, nor would we have to wonder where it comes from, but the Finns have not been able to use the bulvans. I'm sorry, because I think this train's gone. Our position now seems to be unused and as closed as Laihia's position between Seinäjoki and Vaasa. Now we need the tenacious and joint work of the whole parliament, both the government and the opposition, so that Finnish food tables will continue to find Finnish rye and barley, beef, pork and chicken.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u171	Madam President! Today there has been a broad and good debate and great concern about Finnish agriculture, its profitability and the livelihood of farmers. In this debate, I had an important role to play in the survival of farmers and in the future of generational exchanges and young farmers. The expensive investments must be able to be put to death and paid off, and the work must be well paid, as we all well understand. There has also been a broad consensus in this Chamber that agriculture and the production of domestic food is an important issue for Finns from the perspective of security of supply. Although this spring seems to be better than last year's weather conditions, these real problems in this payment and support policy need to be clarified, and fortunately Minister Tiilikainen and Prime Minister Sipilä also gave positive news today. Mr Hakkarainen intervened here in matters of animal welfare and the issue of sabotage to farms. I believe that any activity that harms legitimate business activity should be strictly prohibited in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u172	Madam President! Agriculture is in crisis. The delays in subsidies, the collapse of exports to Russia and the fall in prices have put farmers in a tight position. In many farms, the situation is critical for both livelihood and survival. So what can help? In the first instance, rapid measures are needed to help farmers overcome the worst. We also need long-term reforms to put agriculture on a sustainable footing. Unfortunately, in the acute crisis in agriculture, Finnish ministers have long been hiding behind the back of the EU, despite the fact that the Commissioner for Agriculture has clearly pointed out that the EU crisis package is not coming. It is time for the government to take responsibility for the situation and take immediate action. These proposals would already have been needed for the spring amending budget — it is good that they are now being imported. The acute problems of agriculture — the poking of subsidies and exports — are not the fault of farmers. As a result of EU sanctions, the sanctions imposed by Russia are reflected in farmers' livelihoods. We must jointly take responsibility for the effects of sanctions, not be put on the hands of one professional group. In the long term, major reforms are needed in the whole food value chain. We need specialisation and the processing of products beyond that, so that their value can be raised, with the bulk we will not be able to manage. The Government has just issued a decision in principle to guide the use of domestic procurement in public procurement. One of the problems of the government is that of this good performance in itself: Finnish conventional food production as it stands is such a taboo that changes are not dared to be presented. However, major reforms to the whole food value chain would be needed to improve the profitability of agricultural enterprises on a permanent basis. Support policy must guide action in a more sustainable direction. This sustainability means social sustainability, such as the survival of farmers, ecological sustainability, such as care for the environment and animal welfare, as well as economic sustainability, such as adequate livelihoods for farmers. The Government is now preparing a new food policy report, which will be completed in the autumn. This would be a good place to redefine Finnish food policy. Finland needs to specialise in food production, not focus on bulk. For example, the share of organic matter has steadily increased and its growth potential remains high. We have a shortage of domestic organic products: cereals, meat, fruit, root, dairy, that is, everything. Even wet oats have to be prepared partly from foreign oats, when there is not enough domestic oat available. It is therefore necessary to take bolder goals with regard to organic farming. Organic products account for only 1.8% of the food market in Finland, compared with 7% in Sweden and over 8% in Denmark. Organic production ensures a higher and more stable income for the producer. Everything goes with what is produced, and that is why more production is needed. Often the transition of farms to organic farming takes place in connection with generational migration. In this way, however, the pace is too slow. In order to speed up this process, separate support would be needed for the transition to organic farming. One small detail about organic food is organic milk. In Finland, schools and day-care centres do not normally use organic milk because, according to our legislation, vitamin D cannot be added to it, as in Sweden. I hope that this legislative point will soon be changed. Increasing the level of food processing will bring new jobs and also improve the position of the producer. Networking of agricultural research and development institutions and marketing know-how is the key to new opportunities in the food sector up to export markets. We have good examples of this from functional foods, lactose-free products and Benecol. We know that meat consumption will decrease. Consumer products produced from protein grown by growth are expected to have a large market as long as they are made into a form that is easy to use in the kitchen. New innovations are needed for this. Today's debate has shown that we share in this Chamber our concern for the future of Finnish agriculture. We all want to continue to be able to eat purely domestic food, to ensure the livelihood of farmers and to keep the countryside alive. However, there have been different priorities in the speeches, which is why, even in the light of this debate, there is no open mandate for all the proposals brought into this Chamber in relation to agriculture to go through, but they always need a separate argument. The Greens will support proposals to improve agricultural conditions in line with sustainable development.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u173	Madam President! Finally, with this intermediate issue, we will be discussing agriculture, the financial distress of farmers and domestic food in this Chamber. The Finnish farmer appreciates the fact that the plight of agriculture is finally being taken up here as well. After nearly 20 years of active, versatile and very close Finnish agriculture, I can easily say that there is no innocent party in this Chamber for the plight of agriculture. One government after another has either cut national subsidies, cut out the various forms of aid altogether or, with the aid conditions, has increased red tape enormously. There is no longer a name for entrepreneurship in agriculture, but it would be more appropriate to describe the farmer as a state torpedo. This government is committed to the norm in its government programme, and the result has come. Immediately last autumn, Mr Tiilikainen, Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, corrected the last government-run nitrate regulation. That regulation would have entailed an excessive amount of costs and bureaucracy for livestock farms. In the course of this year, more of this stripping has been carried on with intense rides. The standards that have been dismantled are beginning to be an impressive list, although work in that sector will continue to be carried out for the next governments. The bureaucracy that affects farmers most must be dismantled at EU level, and we must all invest in it. The crisis in agriculture has been going on for too long. The situation has been corrected by crisis packages, but the whole has not been taken over. The regime has grown huge. Spinning papers and various surveys and unnecessary administrative surveys take up most of the working time of farmers. And there would be enough of that work on farms anyway. We must therefore continue to address unnecessary and burdensome standards and improve the efficiency of administration. This will free up time on farms for cultivation and production itself. The administration must be made to serve the customer, in this case the farmer, and not the other way around. Even in other parts of society, a citizen does not exist for the public authority; the public authority is for the citizen. Why has the agricultural administration turned completely upside down? Mr President! We need money on farms, not just speeches and promises. In this debate, I would have liked to see a proper reflection on the future of our agriculture and other than the usual political bickering. It does not take the matter forward or improve the situation of any farmer. Agriculture now needs support, but also controlled structural reform. Now we need to get to work, find solutions and make decisions. Will solutions be found in the bioeconomy and renewable energy sector with a European model where decentralised energy production will provide more money for farms, for example, as rental solar panels on the roofs of production buildings? It would not increase the work for the farms, but it would bring the money needed and the buffer to the uncertainty caused by natural conditions and market fluctuations. All it needs from us here is to break down the legal barriers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u174	Madam President! Representative Aalto and also representative Pylväs have just raised the issue of energy production, small energy production at the farm level. That's the right chance for us. This government programme, which has been carried out for this parliamentary term, also supports the bioeconomy, bioenergy. These are the very things we need to get moving so that we can also have the impact on the farm level. In Germany, for example, the production of pigmeat is significantly supported by this energy production, and the price of pigmeat in that country also largely determines the European Union's market prices for pigmeat, which we will then suffer here in Finland. There has also been a lot of talk here today about organic food, local food. That is a market that we must take over, those consumers, so that we can get those good local food, organic products on the way. I would just like to make one point here: for example, less than half of organic milk today is processed into a consumer package. It's just that consumers haven't taken over. It's an extremely big shame. I would also like to talk about local food more widely about Finnish food as a whole and not just local food.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u175	Madam Speaker! Agriculture, food production is the backbone of Finnish rural areas. It's been that, it's still that. The farm structure has changed a lot, production has improved significantly. It has become so much more efficient that many other industries have been much less efficient over time than Finnish agriculture. Despite all this improvement, we are in a situation of profitability, and today has shown that we share the will to change this situation, that is all well and good. The countryside also needs other livelihoods, everything that is there now in a strong way. That much that has been raised in this last-minute debate is energy in its various forms. It is a very important matter and we heard encouraging words from both the Prime Minister and Minister Tiilikainen today. Here, too, we encourage the government to take action to achieve this objective. At the same time, we will also improve our share of renewable energy, which is in the interests of all of us. It is in the interests of the national economy and it is in the interests of our environment and of our climate. President! One thing that we have not really received any attention at all in this debate is that Finnish food is responsible for its production methods in terms of animal welfare, the environment and also socially, but when it is also clean — it is non-free, there are no hormones, there are no antibiotics as minimally low, plant protection residues are absolutely non-existent — its importance for public health, antibiotic resistance and so on, which are emerging trends in the world. We must be more proud of this, our own production, and thus add value to it, both in terms of exports and here at home. This is one important point that must also be taken into account in our domestic food production.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u176	Madam President! Today's mid-term debate has shown, as has been said earlier, that there are really many friends in Finnish rural areas. For that I am delighted and hope that this friendship with the Finnish countryside and the people living in the Finnish countryside, this emotional state, will remain ahead of us. Indeed, as Mr Leppä, chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, said in his speech, Finnish clean food will certainly be in demand on the world market in the future. The only question is whether we want the Finnish countryside to remain alive. That's what it's all about, isn't it? When I look at these events in recent decades, how the Finnish countryside has been driven down with two hands, with all the means available — for example, the condition of the current fairway, the roads and the tracks — then we should all have a slight guilty conscience about how we have handled this matter in this country. No farm, no forest farm will work profitably in the long term if we do not put the transport routes in order. This is what we have done in this Finnish Parliament, so many times we have cut the road money, left the tracks unaccounted for and, for example, left inland waterway transport to the Hunnungo. That would be a huge opportunity to put things right in this country, but it just has not succeeded. But that does not mean that if we have ever done wrong so that it cannot be corrected. They've started dismantling the Bureaucracy. The bureaucracy of the European Union has indeed brought a new dimension to the Finnish countryside and agriculture. An incredible number of different flags and labels are filled with no information as to whether it is of any economic benefit. Representative Mikkonen here spoke fine words about Finnish organic production. Just like that, that is an excellent thing, but the thing is that the bureaucracy that has been built around it does not encourage any sensible farmer to invest more heavily in organic production because the enormous bureaucracy that is weighing on it will discourage even the bravest farmer in a few years. Many people have stopped organic production precisely because they simply cannot cope with the enormous bureaucracy that has been created around this. Why are things like this? We have, as Mrs Leppä said in her speech, clean soil, clean products. Are we going to mess up this situation, too, so we can't market these things to the world? What we really need in this country is for the countryside to be recognised as an environment in which people can live and work. What has caused us to have a lot of discussion lately? Landscape protection. Protect the Finnish countryside landscape, the agricultural landscape over there, fields and forests, without understanding what that means. Yes, the fields will remain in good condition and the forests will remain in good condition if people are given the opportunity to work there and work there. But with millions and millions and millions of hectares of such protection programs, there are bound to be the desire for construction and the desire for the development of livelihoods in the smooth way. Then there will be red tape around it, so that anyone capable of nailing a stamp, pencil and even paper will be able to file a complaint, so that all the projects will stand, such as in my municipality of Ilomats. Hundreds of jobs have gone down that smooth road, and thumbs are spinning and wondering why we are in this situation. If we want Finnish agriculture to be saved and Finnish forestry to work and the bioeconomy to get on its feet, that means that we have to take care of our own business. I would like the Finnish Parliament to go on a little excursion in this regard to the western neighbour of Sweden. It is a place where the country's own interests and interests are pursued in style, including within the EU. In Finland it cannot be done, at least to the full, as well as the Swedes do. I hope, Madam President, that Parliament's eyes will be opened on this matter and that we will understand that the Finnish countryside will not live unless agriculture is well-functioning and well-being. The same applies to forestry. I hope, Madam President, that in this matter we will find that common note in the Finnish Parliament and that we will finally get these things in a little better shape. This isn't a big deal. We do not need too much money for this, as long as we start using domestic food and use it specifically so that Finnish food is always the food when we go to the store, that option number one and not the imported food. The second thing is that, when we want a new business and activity in this country, houses must be built in the city, but the government has also started to make policies to support the construction of rural areas. I am very much in favour of this. Rural areas must also be developed. It must be possible to build new houses, new summer cottages, new services, new roads and new things, not in this way, as it is today, that everything can be complained of and prevented. That road has been completed if one day we want a limited company called Finland on its feet from this swamp of recession.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u177	Madam President! Today, an extremely good debate has taken place in this Chamber on the agricultural situation and also on its future. I must say that, first of all, the starting point is that everyone has proven that all production trends in Finland are currently those in financial difficulties. So we're all on a mutual mission. The Government has recently taken decisions on issues such as the granting of a State guarantee to liquidity loans and the granting of payment facilities to interest subsidies and government loans. This is an extremely important first step for indebted farms, which are, as a rule, investments. The Farmers' Pension Institution has also made a decision to reduce the late interest rate on occupational pension contributions, which also brings relief to farms. What is very important, however, is the direction our government is taking in the direction of the European Union, and it is important to involve the European Union in these economic difficulties in agriculture. As we know, EU action has a key impact on the profitability of agriculture. For example, milk production is in an extremely difficult situation at European level, overproduction is in trouble, and a solution has been made in the Union to make milk powder for storage and also butter for storage. Unfortunately, these measures have the effect of prolonging this crisis. In today's view, the EU's decision to renounce milk quotas — a decision taken ten years ago — was a mistake. This decision took place in the spring of last year and, in line with the situation in January-March, milk production has increased by more than 7% in Denmark, for example, In Germany almost 9%, in Ireland 33%, in the Netherlands 18%. Milk production has grown almost more throughout the EU than milk production in Finland. In other words, this will have an extremely important impact on the European milk market, and it is therefore very important that we try to maintain our own milk production in Finland and manage its share so that we do not lose out here, because we must look to the future and to the next EU programming period. The next programming period for the European Union will be marked by the situation in Eastern Europe and Western Europe. The countries of Eastern Europe are waiting for ever-increasing EU aid, i.e. area payments, and Western Europe, as we know, does not want to equalise them. But if the old signs are true, this will also have a significant impact on the matters of the next programming period. But on the domestic situation: The Government made an important decision in principle that the state should procure food for its own activities produced in accordance with the production requirements required of farmers, and this is an extremely important message also for municipalities and other mass-food providers. And as our representatives, who are involved in many activities, we also consider this matter to be cherished for our part. Madam President! Investments have spoken very much here today. 2015 was a very important year, or, indeed, a little disappointing, for investments, because they were scarce due to the fact that the Rural Development Agency at the time sought an electronic search that was not successful, which caused decisions to be made only in the autumn. As a result, construction projects were completely missed last summer. This caused it, inter alia, in South Ostrobothnia, where there are several companies in the construction and equipment industry, that they had to lay off their workers because there was no demand for products. Let us hope that these will be eliminated and investment will be mobilised, because it is extremely important for the future that our agriculture invests and that the reality is also recognised that the unit size will increase and, at the same time, the competitiveness of farms will also be recognised. Much has also been said about these energy investments. They are useful, but unfortunately the problem with manure-based energy investments is often that they target large farms with already large debts and are unable to absorb an additional debt of between EUR 500000 and EUR 1000000 to carry out this energy investment. But, Madam President, I hope that this debate today has contributed to the success of Finnish agriculture and has also encouraged farmers to continue their work, even though this is the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u178	Madam President! There has been talk here of a common European agricultural policy and economic policy in this situation. I would like to raise this point when, among other things, Aalto asked how to get feed-in tariffs to work here so that there would be more income for farms: however, we are currently paying outside the EU, for Russia, for forest chips from there. That is the task of the government, which must now be taken away in this period. For example, close to us is a handful manufacturer who handles bioenergy and wood suitable for wood chips like that. All orders are currently plus minus zero, roughly. One aspect of this is that when Russia becomes chipping in combustion plants, it receives subsidies. Why is this not targeted at this rural area — because many farmers also have forest land — and the application that comes from there to be taken to a heating plant? At the same time, forests will be harvested, jobs will be created there and so on. But that support for the application from Russia must be obtained, by any means, during this reign. At the same time, jobs will be created in rural areas, including rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u179	Madam President! Congressman Hoskonen here painted devils on the walls, even where there is no way to find them, no matter how much you look at them with a magnifying glass. On the contrary, Ilomants' dangerous landscapes and fields are dangerous landscapes with their fields only in the event of an active farming activity and, on the other hand, their existence also supports the existence of tourism in the region. So this landscape protection programme specifically seeks to maintain and thus preserve the active economic activity in the region.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-14-ps-68.u180	Madam President! I see the conversation is about to end. Fortunately, from that country, however, I was able to take part in this and I can really agree, firstly, with the demand made in the Centre's group statement and the requirement that this crisis package, which Mr Tiilikainen has prepared, should now be put into effect. There is now a good start, for example, with regard to these guarantee arrangements and others, but also with regard to the budget, it must be implemented. Of course, this is a much wider issue when we look to the future at the success of the Finnish agriculture and food industry. I'm just going to bring up one piece of red tape. In fact, the government has already done a great deal when you go to the Ministry of Agriculture's e.g., e.m.fi/normminku page. This autumn there were eight different sets of laws, and smaller lower-level regulations have also been made, but the work is big. Last week, a large committee called for the elimination of red tape to be included in the conclusions of the European Summit. Of course, this applies particularly to agriculture. We know that the Prime Minister The pig is ready and prepared for this. From my own experience, too, I can tell you that this head of the EU must also be mobilised. Of course, agricultural policy needs to be simplified, but, for example, the rationalisation of these area measurements or the rationalisation of cross-compliance and sanctions, or the transition from the current heavy control burden to risk-based control in Finland, require the EU's contribution and also the EU's approval, and it really needs to work. I understand that this is now a little more widely understood in the Member States, and Finland can lead this process, which actually streamlines and rationalises the regulations and thus relieves the unreasonable burden on farmers.
