ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The decision is now taken by Antti Rinteen and others. on the question of an intermediate issue from the direction of Finland. The debate on the interim issue ended at the plenary session on 18 May 2016. The debate is held by Antti Rinne Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, Ville Niinistö Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto, Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, supported by Li Andersson and supported by Sari Essayah Päivi Räsänen. The proposals have been distributed to representatives on a multiplicity basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u2	The vote will take place first on Sari Essayah's proposal against Ville Niinistö's proposal, then on Antti Rinte's proposal, and on Aino-Kaisa Pekonen's proposal, which has won this vote. Finally, we will vote on whether the Government enjoys the confidence of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u3	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 4/2016 vp. The debate will be opened by Mr Kaikkonen, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u4	Mr President! The basic task of the Council of Europe is to safeguard and develop human rights, democracy and the rule of law. In its report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs stresses the importance of the Council of Europe's fundamental role in this current situation, where social development and problems are challenging the rule of law, freedom of expression and other fundamental values, including in established democracies. An international legal and rule-based international system is a prerequisite for prosperity, security and stable development. In the view of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, their defence is even more up-to-date. The 2015 Annual Report of the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe shows how the international agenda has been dominated by the threat of terrorism, the refugee crisis and Russia's actions in Ukraine. It is also worrying how the reports to the General Assembly of the Council of Europe have drawn attention to the repeated violations of human rights in several Member States. Mr President! In its report, the Committee on Foreign Affairs draws attention to the fact that the so-called Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Elimination of Violence and Domestic Violence against Women in the Council of Europe entered into force in Finland at the beginning of August last year. The agreement contains provisions on the prevention and elimination of violence against women and domestic violence, the protection of victims of violence and the accountability of perpetrators of violence. The Committee on Foreign Affairs attaches great importance to the implementation of this agreement and draws attention to the fact that a report is being prepared in the General Assembly's Committee on Gender Equality, including recommendations that may contribute to the implementation of the agreement in Finland. The committee notes that the implementation of the agreement also requires the allocation of resources for this purpose. Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs proposes that Parliament approve the statement that Parliament has no objections to the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u5	Madam President! As the chairman of the committee, Mr Kaikkonen, pointed out in his good presentation, the committee's report also highlights the fundamental role and fundamental principles of the Council of Europe in situations where the development of society is challenging the rule of law, freedom of expression and so on in such well-established Member States of the Council of Europe. However, I would like to say that the worst human rights crime in Europe today is war, and it is a war in Eastern Ukraine, which has been the result of Russia's aggressive action in breach of all international treaties in relation to Crimea and Eastern Ukraine. We must not forget this. We must openly say that Russia's action is by no means acceptable and demand that Russia implement its international agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u6	Let us take a few speeches from that list and then move on to the debate. There's a lot of people here who can use the debatables to sign up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u7	Mr President! I do not want to take much time, but I would like to draw particular attention to a point in the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and this relates to the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Elimination of Violence and Domestic Violence against Women in the Council of Europe, which is now in force in Finland, entered into force on 1 August 2015. This obliges us, Finland, to take quite a number of measures, starting with the addition of these shelters and the helpline. I have been in contact with Foreign Minister Soini, who has given a very well-founded answer to my written question, but one thing remained to him, and this relates to forced marriages. This Istanbul agreement obliges the State bodies of the parties to the agreement to refrain from any activity covered by this Istanbul agreement. The Istanbul agreement, among other things, requires the criminalisation of forced marriages and the possibility of nullifying forced marriages. A forced marriage is defined as a marriage that is opposed by one or both parties. Forced marriages of girls are also a problem in Finland, as even girls from secondary schools are sent abroad for forced marriage. In general, arrangements are made by parents, family members or other close associates of the prospective spouse. And, according to Monika-Women's Association, the number of forced marriages is currently increasing in Finland, and that is why I hope that Parliament will pay attention to this issue. Last year, 25 forced marriages became known to the union, that is, during the year, and in the first four months of this year, there have already been similar cases. In Finland, therefore, forced marriages are not criminalised but are governed by the law on trafficking in human beings and coercion. Under current legislation, the victim must file a report of the offence himself and act as an active party to the case. However, reporting a crime to victims often means breaking up between one’s own family and one’s family, so the situation is very difficult. Therefore, forced marriage should be a criminal offence under general charge, so that the victim does not have to report the crime himself. For example, forced marriages have been criminalised in Britain, Norway, Sweden, Germany and Denmark. And indeed the Istanbul agreement now obliges Finland to do the same. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u8	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! The chairman of the committee, Mr Kaikkonen, gave a good presentation. It is easy to agree that the importance of the basic role of the Council of Europe in such a situation, where the principles of the rule of law, freedom of expression and other fundamental values have also been called into question in Europe. This is a very worrying situation. Mr Zyskowicz, who spoke in a special capacity, rightly pointed out that, in this situation, the greatest threat to human rights is what is happening in Ukraine at the moment. In other words, in many situations in Eastern Ukraine, we could say that the almost open war is what we must all tackle with a strong grip. Fortunately, the General Assembly has unequivocally condemned Russia's actions in relation to the territorial integrity of Ukraine, the annexation of Crimea to Russia and the military action in Eastern Ukraine. The General Assembly has continued its decision to freeze the voting rights of the Russian delegation and the Russian delegation did not participate in the proceedings of the General Assembly during that reporting year. In its own report, the committee notes that the absence of a political solution and the crisis in Ukraine is an obstacle to normalisation of relations between the Council of Europe and Russia. We well understand and know in Finland that Russia's sanctions have hit us first and foremost in Finland and Finland, for example, our food production has suffered in a significant way. I understand the pain of our agriculture. That is why it is good that the government is also returning to the exceptionally difficult situation of Finnish agriculture in the autumn, although I personally would see it necessary to share this burden together at European level so that, when sanctions are common, the disadvantages could also be shared more evenly among the different EU countries. However, pressure has increased to reduce sanctions in many countries. I would like to ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Kaikkonen, that this debate has not awakened in Finland, that we should overlook Russia's actions in Ukraine, the forced annexation of Crimea and the war in Eastern Ukraine, and that we would be lifting these sanctions, even though they touch our country hard, because it is absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u9	We can have a little debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u10	Mr President! This is a direct question from Mr Heinos. That is not exactly what we are dealing with here, perhaps, but through the bridge. As far as I know, Finland has committed itself to a common EU sanctions policy. I have not seen any more serious cracks about it, but I am sure that many people would like to see these sanctions removed or dismantled at some point.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u13	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz made a very strong speech on the situation in Ukraine and Crimea, and I agree with that. That is why I am very surprised that Mr Stubb, the Minister of Finance, from such authority as the Finnish Government, made a public speech in which he accepted the annexation of the de facto Crimea to Russia.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u16	Madam President! Finland's line in relation to Russia's activities in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine is quite clear: we do not accept Russia's action. It violates international law, it violates international agreements concluded by Russia. At the same time, there is a broad consensus in Finland, one might say, that the President of the Republic and other state leaders are doing important work, as in the middle of everything they are trying to maintain and strengthen dialogue with the Russian leadership, too, because this dialogue is needed in order to find a solution in time. With regard to Mr Stubb's statement, on which we have spoken here on Friday afternoon with the Heinäluoma, I understand that Minister Stubb said that in the future in sight, Crimea has been lost. And this is an estimate that he has honestly and sincerely made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u17	Mr President! However, I am a little confused about making these public assessments over the board. It is not good for this country that the responsible ministers take positions on the property of others which suggest that the Crimea has at least been lost in the near future. I think it's a pretty big position and it's not responding, hopefully, to this government's line. We have at least interpreted in the past that you have been in the joint boat where we are very concerned about what is happening in order to resolve this crisis in Ukraine at all. It is not in Finland’s interest to present such lines in such an important task, and it is therefore important that such bets are corrected so as not to remain unclear. Well, I must say that the policy of this government has also been unclear at all points in the way in which the activities of the Council of Europe and the OSCE are supported. And here I think Mr Heinonen genuinely raised the right point that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u18	Madam President! This debate is good and necessary and, above all, without reproach, we must look for ways of achieving peace in Ukraine. In my view, it has been positive that Finland, in line with a long tradition, has been such a bridge builder here, Mrs Kanerva has played a very important role, but also the President of the Republic, Sauli Niinistö, who has held consultations and discussions and, above all, has opened up that dialogue. Sanctions are a part of this, and they must not be touched until we have peace in Eastern Ukraine and the situation in Crimea is resolved, but at the same time we must continue to have an open debate, a dialogue with Russia, and also by acting as a united EU, but every country that has an exceptionally good chance of being such a bridgebuilder also uses them. Thank you very much for this, Mr Kanerva and Mr Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u19	Madam President! It is quite clear that this war in Ukraine has actually affected everything we talk about in the Council of Europe in the arena. It would, of course, be desirable for national policies to be carefully considered on such rather sensitive issues, and I think it is quite clear that Finland cannot separate itself from the international front, which condemns these actions which Russia has taken in Ukraine. Yes, the messages of the General Assembly on this matter have been quite clear. Of course, we share the concern that dialogue must be able to take place in order to find a solution. On the other hand, I think that what matters here in particular is what happens between the major powers in this debate in the coming months, and I would not be entirely hopeless about finding this solution. There are positive signs, but
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u20	Mr President! Violence against women, domestic violence and the prevention of this is a very important subject of action everywhere and also in Finland. We lack not only shelters, as has been pointed out here, but also rape centres, which some experts say we need more than a dozen. Legislative changes must be introduced so that we can step up the fight against violence. Assistance, support and after-care must also be provided for victims. Here Mr Zyskowicz said that war is the biggest problem and a threat to everyone at the moment. That is absolutely true, but of course we must remember that war and crisis always involve violence against women and children and brutal violence. Rape is everyday in wars and crises today, as it were, an instrument of warfare, so that it is therefore extremely important to try to deal with this entity elsewhere, but also in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u21	Mr President! The Finnish line in that Council of Europe with regard to the occupation of Crimea, Ukraine and Russia has been very clear. It has already been such a soviet-jurisdiction since the last reign: a moderate, constructive and dialogueist line. The Finnish delegation from the Council of Europe is now on its way to Moscow in June. I would now like to ask the representatives here on the ground what kind of message you would like us to take from this Finnish Parliament. This debate on whether or not the Crimea has been lost is very interesting to me. I would also like to see some clarification as to whether we in this House have parties who genuinely think so, or whether this has been the private thinking of an individual minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u22	Madam President! There's a dialogue to be held. No one's ever disagreed with that. But as far as Mr Stubb's statements are concerned, Mr Zyskowicz, you said last time that in the future in view, but in this opinion Mr Stubb does not speak of any future in sight. He said very clearly: 'I think that Crimea is a lost case, even if we would like to believe otherwise.' And he goes on to say that if Russia shows that it calms down against Kiev, Eastern Ukraine, then there can be a movement in sanctions. Mr Zyskowicz, say one minister from one EU country that has travelled to the United States and from there makes a statement and says that Crimea is a lost case. And how does representative Heinonen comment on this? In this line, which Mr Stubb says, it is stated that only if Russia shows that it is calming down could there be movement in sanctions. I understand you disagreed with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u23	Madam President! I have, on several occasions here, responded to this reflection on Mr Stubb's opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u26	Mr President! Since UN Resolution 1325, 'Women, peace and security', I am reminded of these, even listening to this debate, that we forget that the basic problem is that the importance of gender equality work in crisis prevention and in those solutions has been neglected. We really need more women in these peace processes. I would see that it would then be easier to get out of those conflict situations when women can, however, be more diplomatic and also negotiate with very difficult partners. I would also like to see Mrs Guzenina give her best wishes. Today we really met the UN Women's leader, Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, and he also hoped that it would be lobbed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u27	Madam President! As I followed the debate, I was convinced that, at least in this Chamber, the perception of the situation in Crimea is in agreement and we do not accept the occupation that has been carried out in this way. This is what we are also saying in the Council of Europe, and it is important that the EN delegation also travels to Moscow and will continue to promote Finland's foreign policy, hopefully a united and big picture there for its part. I would like to repeat the question in your debate that there has been such a change in the Council of Europe's action in recent times that Turkey has become involved, and they have done so with very impressive and great attention. And when we all know what is happening in the Mediterranean and we know the challenges of Turkey's internal policy on the one hand, I would really ask you to take a look at how you will see this opportunity, which Turkey's arrival in the Council of Europe will enable us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u28	Madam President! This report on the activities of the delegation is a good cross-section of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, and the negotiating committee has done a good job in this area. This report also mentions how difficult it is to achieve social rights and tells us about the European Social Charter. The purpose of the Charter is to emphasise the right to social rights, including housing, poverty and social exclusion. In Turin in March, as a representative of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, I attended this Social Charter conference, and it was very interesting to have a discussion with representatives of the various Member States there. And when I read this account, I see that the report has given the same attention and discussed them. And the case of forced marriage brought up by Guzenina
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u29	Madam President! I too think it is very important that Finland's national policy is very clear, and that is why it is, indeed, confusing that certain statements made by Mr Stubb on behalf of the Finance Minister remain unclear as to what they are meant to be. It's a pretty tough text, if you say it's a case that's lost in practice. And even if Mr Zyskowicz did not want to go back to this, there would now have to be clarity and some feedback to the fact that here Parliament is genuinely asking questions about what this speech by Minister Stubb has meant. That is why I hope that, in future, other than Mr Zyskowicz, for example, Mr Stubb himself, will then be able to clarify this line, because, unfortunately, the line has not become clear at the moment, even though Mr Zyskowicz said so. President! When Mr Guzenina here wishes to say hello, what is it worth telling her?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-20-ps-56.u32	Madam President! In my opinion — this is a serious matter, and it is not worth laughing at — Russia has acted in violation of international rights, and it is good that the EU and Finland have condemned Russia’s actions. They must be condemned, there are no two words about this, of course, and there is no point in twisting it. Finland is involved in the EU and we are involved in EU decisions, but it is very important that we also maintain a dialogue with Russia in this situation, even if we do not accept or understand their activities in Eastern Ukraine, let alone the occupation and conquest of Crimea. In my opinion, it is now pointless to try to make an artificial situation of tension within Finland. We are in this good European line and we are in contact with Mr Soin, the Minister for Foreign Affairs,
