ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Finance Committee, to which other committees may deliver an opinion by 13 May 2016. Following Mr Stubb's presentation, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches that have been requested in advance, with a maximum of 7 minutes of group speeches. Other pre-reserved speeches shall be taken in the order of the group statement and shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u2	Mr President! "The public finance plan" is a sure name from the paper. However, this is the government’s really most important tool in the management of public finances. More specifically, we call it a framework decision setting the framework for the collection and use of common funds for the next few years. We are therefore dealing with an important package which outlines the government's plan for the financial management of the rest of the period. In my presentation I will focus on three larger entities: (1) the outlook for economic development and the recent economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance; (2) the big picture of the government's economic policy; and (3) the broad lines of the spending limits decision. Mr President! In the midst of dark economic times, it is difficult to maintain optimism and faith in the future. The management of common funds must above all be realistic. However, a hint of optimism in public debate would not be detrimental to the creation of a positive economic cycle. The economy is also very far into psychology. The latest forecast by the Treasury may be of concern. It provides a long-term outlook for only very weak economic growth of between 1% and 1.5%. The ageing of the population and structural unemployment reduce the potential for growth. After the Finnish welfare society has been improved since the recession of the 1990s, the improvements we have made have been based on an average annual growth rate of around 3-4 per cent. The percentage growth forecast is far from this level. Still, it is necessary to feel relieved that Finland has been able to break out of the yoke of a long-standing recession. The past year was the first year of positive economic development after three years of economic decline. So last year we had an increase of around 0.5 per cent, and this year's growth is forecast to be around 0.9 per cent. This cautious growth does not yet make the summer, but the direction is finally the right one. With the recovery in economic growth, the number of employed is projected to rise by 0.3% this year. Employment will improve throughout the forecast period and by 2018 the unemployment rate will fall to 8.7 per cent from 9.4 per cent last year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u3	Madam President! About a year ago, Finland was on the brink of a gap in many ways. Our economy was in a downward spiral, only unemployment and debt grew. The decision-making process was paralysed. In the parliamentary elections, people voted for change. The Government negotiations agreed on a programme to reform society, improve employment, secure services and put an end to living in debt. It's been a year since the election. The government has been able to make decisions, people can count on the country to be managed and things are under control, despite the fact that, at the same time, we are faced with a difficult refugee problem, for example. A lot of people are worried about their future. Concerns need to be heard and solutions need to be discussed openly. If there are better ways, they can be changed, but the goals are adhered to. Mr President! We still have problems to solve. However, after the spring decisions, one can say that a change is finally possible. The news of the forecast published last week by the Ministry of Finance was also that the economic sign has changed from negative to positive. The worst is over, and we must now strengthen people’s faith in the future. The most important thing is to get more jobs and, as a result, jobs for the unemployed. That's what the solution is all about. The target of 110000 jobs in this parliamentary term is still maintained. We have already been able to increase confidence in the Finnish economy. It has been confirmed by the outcome of the negotiations in the social agreement; it must now only be taken into collective agreements at large in the negotiations of the unions. The social contract is exceptional for employees. It was positive that the SDP changed its course and started supporting the solution. Mr President! As part of the social pact, local agreements in the workplace will be significantly promoted. Unorganised companies will also be able to agree. It creates better conditions for dealing with difficult situations in such a way that jobs can be secured and not made redundant. The entrepreneurship and employment packages of the government complement the social pact and thus create more conditions for our country to rise again. The operating conditions for employment-oriented small and medium-sized enterprises will be improved. Their access to finance will be supported, red tape hampering enterprise and work will continue to be dismantled. The threshold for employment and employment will be lowered. For example, an entrepreneurial reduction is now being carried out, facilitating the recruitment of the first employee and allowing the use of unemployment benefit as a new start-up grant when an unemployed person becomes an entrepreneur. An employment-friendly natural resource and bioeconomy must be promoted with determination, but it is one of the most promising sectors to create jobs throughout Finland. Mr President! The Government has also decided on transport projects targeting the whole of Finland. Almost a billion euros will be spent on roads, railways and other routes. There will be money allocated to basic roads, and lower-level roads will be repaired. This will improve the conditions for workplaces, the operation of employment enterprises and the mobility of people in rural areas as well. About EUR 800 million will be allocated to new investments during this parliamentary term. Some projects can be started almost immediately. In the past, investments could be made in several billion euros. Now the framework and the EU deficit rule are blocking this. The Centre considers that in the future it must be possible to multiply infrastructure investments. Because of those constraints and budgetary money alone, it will not succeed. In order to create growth and jobs, we need completely new solutions. Therefore, the establishment of a state-owned company, proposed by the Minister of Transport and Communications, must be investigated carefully and without intimidation. It is positive that the government has agreed to carry out a study. Mr President! The reform of social welfare and health services will be brought to the end. This is the biggest solution of the parliamentary term and the biggest reform of services and administration in Finland for decades. The most important thing is to secure people's services close to homes throughout the country. Similarly, reform is needed to put our economy in order. In the future, companies and organisations will complement social and health services, people will have wider choice in care and care. Cooperation is needed in the implementation of the reform, especially in the regions. Workers must also be included from the outset. Social and health care professionals need to be consulted in order to spread best practice. At the same time, a regional reform will be carried out to enable a sustainable regional policy for the future. The vitality of the province is in the hands of its inhabitants, and the reform strengthens people's self-interest. Mr President! Savings of EUR 4 billion for this parliamentary term were agreed in the negotiations with the Government in order to put an end to living as a debt in due course. These difficult decisions have now been made. Decisions are painful and it is understandable that they have also been criticised. However, the harder the land under our feet, the more sustainable we can take care of the most vulnerable in our society. It has been comforting that some improvements have also been made: for example, the guarantee pension for the lowest incomes will be increased, the services for children and families will be reformed, family care will be developed and youth unemployment and exclusion will be combated. Mr President! The central government parliamentary group supports the agreed central government spending limits and the budgetary plan for 2017-2020. Finland must be put in good shape.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u4	Next, the Finnish Parliament Group, represented by Turunen. — And in the meantime, while waiting for the next speaker, it would also be good to move these other debates outside the Chamber so that we can hear the voice that is in front of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u5	Mr President! The economic situation in our country is difficult. As we are well aware, there are three years of recession and last year, too, our national economy grew to only 0.5%. At a time when the economy is on the rise in other European countries, we have not reached a growth path in Finland. Industrial restructuring has posed a challenge to our society that previous governments have not been able to respond to. When expenditure has not been adjusted to the calculated income, public sector debt has grown rapidly. After the crisis year 2008, the necessary adjustment measures were not taken in time and unfortunately have to be taken now. Efforts have been made to deal with the weak economic situation in previous government periods as a cyclical crisis. However, this approach has been wrong. Many of the problems affecting our country's economy are precisely structural. Our employment rate is several per cent lower than in other Nordic countries, and our competitiveness has been weakened by membership of the euro area. Unlike our predecessors, our government has analysed the situation and is trying to address the underlying causes of the problems. For this reason, the central economic policy areas of the government are competitiveness, employment and public service production. Social and health care accounts for a significant part of public sector expenditure. During the previous term of government, the unfinished social reform will finally be brought to an end in this term of government. There are many ways to increase employment and competitiveness. In this respect, the social pact plays a key role and the social partners play an important role. The True Finns thank the social partners for understanding the difficult situation of our economy. The prerequisite for our success is that Finnish work is competitive. The aim is to increase domestic demand by increasing household reduction and by increasing the purchasing power of people with low and medium incomes through a reduction in labour income.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u18	Mr President! The state and municipalities will be in debt to the Finns for this day, too, by nearly EUR 15 million. We pay more than EUR 4 million a day for common interest payments alone. In the past, I have had the opportunity to work with many business leaders who make investment decisions. From time to time, I have asked what would be the most important act that would strengthen faith in expansion in Finland. Surprisingly often the answer does not apply to entrepreneurship reduction or incentives, but the answer is to get that debt in order. As long as the state and the municipalities are in debt, it will know in the future higher taxes, cuts in purchasing power and before long the Greek road. This is also the most important thing that this house can do to get the economy started. During this parliamentary term, it will largely be decided whether Finland will succeed in restoring its reputation. It is extremely important that the government adheres to its framework and its target of EUR 4 billion in adjustment. It is the only way to break debt, of course, only if we are courageous in other reforms. And only a break in debt can ultimately save the welfare state. Debt is also a question of intergenerational justice. In the 20th century, those who started their careers faced a rapidly growing economy, improved services, a relatively secure career and low earnings-related pension contributions. Unfortunately, those who start their careers now have none of these ahead of them. We have to ask ourselves today: do we want our children to be burdened also by the state finances in the mud and massive debt management costs? On my own behalf and on behalf of the Coalition Party: we have neither the capacity nor the right to do so. Mr President! It's the saving that counts, but it's also important what that money is spent on. The big question with regard to the structure of expenditure is whether we can invest enough in knowledge. In addition to deleveraging, the main decision of the framework for the assembly is that no further savings will be made in education, research and product development. Instead, the government will make an additional EUR 100 million contribution to the development of education for the years 17 and 18. In connection with the spending limits committee, the government directed a series of specific measures for work and enterprise. It is particularly important to change unemployment benefits from passive support to activation money.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u21	Madam President! The Government's proposal for a framework for central government finances for 2017-2020 is a good indication of the Government's line. The government will stick to previous spending ceilings. In publishing the framework, Prime Minister Sipilä said that in future the government will focus on improving employment. This is right, but the question remains: why not only after the spending limits? More and more Finns ask where to take Finland. "There is no benefit in terms of speed if directional", said thejoMahatmaGandhi. Will the government take Finland in the direction that the government parties spoke about in the elections, or have the goals changed since the elections? An experienced parliamentarian wondered about the importance of the election speeches: 'I find it particularly questionable and reprehensible that there are different lines of conduct in the elections than those that are ready to be carried out after the elections.' This was said across party boundaries by former Vice-President Pekka Ravi, National Coalition Party. Words of wisdom. Before the elections, Juha Sipilä promised that not a cent of the euros of pensioners, families with children and students would be cut. Timo Soini promised that low incomes cannot, cannot and should not be cut, incomes below EUR 1000 will become tax-free, Greek subsidies will close, car taxes will be abolished, gas taxes will not be affected and the Finns of Finland will not sell their principles. Mr President! The SDP warned the government last summer about the lack of employment. We have offered the government a number of options to improve growth and employment. In the model of the employment slope, passive unemployment expenditure is used for active employment. Even last autumn, government parties called an activating employment policy a trick job. Now the head of the government turned, and the model of the Ringe will be introduced from the beginning of next year. The government deserves to be commended for its change of direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u26	Mr President! I'll tell you two stories about people's everyday lives behind numbers. I received a message from a pensioner who received less than 1000 euros. Because of the symptoms of myocardial infarction, he had ended up at the health center in the central hospital, from there to the pharmacy’s home. Medical visits cost EUR 32.50 more than before. It's a lot of money, especially when it's hard enough to cope with the cost of everyday life anyway. The cost of a taxi ride used by a woman, supported by Kela, had also increased by EUR 18. The question arises as to whether there is still room to buy medicines prescribed by the doctor because of the EUR 50 initial ownership. The shopping trip changes to the bread line because you have to choose between medicines or food. Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä encouraged the Youth Parliament last Friday to study enthusiastically and graduate from the profession. The Prime Minister also encouraged him to send an e-mail. What does the Prime Minister say to the young woman who asked in an e-mail to all MPs why she should continue to study when it leads to debt and if she is unemployed she should make more money? The same is asked by many other students, whose student money you are cutting to 83 euros and who you are putting on a growing debt burden from your own shoulders. Mr President! If we were all in the same boat, everyone would participate in these economic activities according to their ability to pay. Now those with good income are urged to accept joint responsibility voluntarily by donating to charity. At the same time, those who have the least of all are the ones that are most exported. It doesn't ask for an opinion. In addition to the poor in Finland, you dare continue to turn the world around. Development cooperation is an international responsibility, not the piggy bank that can always be broken and robbed in the event of a bad day. When this cake of injustice is still frosted with spring dividend exams and corporate executive bonuses, there is indeed a plug out of the common pot. The message of fairness is buried and buried instead of the control register. I urge the representatives of the government parties to reflect for a moment on the words of Archbishop Kari Mäkinen: "A fair society is not born on charity but through fair decisions." That is why taxation is the right solution to share that common burden. This is not just a moral message, it is also a message of sound economic policy. Mr President! In Finland, it would be worth moving from taxation of labour to taxation of consumption and disadvantages. This would be in line with international recommendations. How can business subsidies that slow down market reform, hinder innovation and burden the environment be seen as part of a functioning market economy? The government won't cut them down. It will increase subsidies for the most polluting industries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u29	Mr President! Finland's economy grew by half a per cent last year. According to the VM forecast, the economy will grow by 0.9 per cent this year. With its growth forecast of 1.1 per cent, the employees’ research institute is slightly more positive. The economic outlook is therefore improving, although the situation is still far from good. The prolonged recession and rising unemployment are the main threats to prosperity, equality and the balance of public finances. Finland has completely failed both in supporting growth and in managing employment. In many other countries, unemployment figures in Finland would have already led to a government crisis. But there's money in this country, despite the dark numbers. Stock exchange companies will increase their dividends this spring by an estimated 14% to 11.8 billion. This spring's dividend may be the biggest ever for listed companies. That would mean that it would be greater than the peak of the economic upturn in 2007. In Finland, there seems to be enough money for large wages and bonuses. The salaries and bonuses of directors of large listed companies increased three times last year compared to the average earnings of Finns. The last pay gap between supply managers and line workers has been this large in 2007. Money can also be found in stock exchange funds. The average net gearing ratio of Finnish listed companies is currently very low. For every fourth listed company, liquid assets exceed 20% of the balance sheet. Instead of making these funds available for new investment or for the development of production, they are being paid out. Exchange companies currently pay more dividends than they put money into investment. Mr President, there is a lack of ideas, not a lack of money, for Finnish corporate management. But what is the government doing in this situation? The government is pointing its finger at the unemployed. In a situation where the number of long-term unemployed is almost as high as during the recession of the 1990s and the lack of jobs is the country's biggest problem, the government intends to force the unemployed to work for free, tighten the conditions for unemployment security and extend the qualifying periods. The other group to which the government is pointing its finger is the employees. The Government believes that it is right and necessary to cut the earnings of Finnish employees, extend working hours and reduce employers' share of social security contributions and transfer them to employees and taxpayers. In addition, a significant part of the government's cuts are directed towards education, research and product development, that is, precisely the one that supports the restructuring of the business structure and the improvement of productivity. And that's not all. In addition to this, the government considers it more sensible to sell state-owned assets than to take out an almost non-interest-free loan and is in the process of setting up the most important services in society, such as social and health care and the road network.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u32	Värderade Talman! Vi vet alla att följande fyraårsperiod kommer att vara en tuff period för statsekonomin i Finland. Därför är det vasentligare än någons förr att regeringens beslut är trovärdiga, samt att man gör sådana beslut och prioriteringar som på riktigt skapar förutsättningar för kahta tillväxt. Såväl vård-, utbildnings- som övriga reformer bör analyzeras utgående från dess verkningar på export och värdeskapande. För att vi ska lyckas vanda tillväxtkurvan uppåt behöver vårt samhälle moderata löneuppgörelser. Det är bra att en exportindustritristyrd modell för lönebildningen införs, och så väntar vi på större konkreti när det gäller reformer som ökar de lokala avtalen på arbetsmarknaden. Vår åldersstruktur medför att vi sinast nu måste lämna eventuella fördomar bakom oss och se öjligheterna med invandring — och då brode behovsprövningen av utländsk arbetskraft definitivt slopas, Vilket svenska riksdagsgruppen länge harävt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u33	Mr President! Balancing public finances requires strict spending discipline and sound structural reforms. Of course, sharing thinness is not a pleasant task. In the budgetary plan, it is seen as a descending framework for each administrative sector. Reducing public spending is necessary, but at the same time we must also invest in the future. Finland emerges from economic distress through work and entrepreneurship. The Christian Democratic Parliament therefore welcomes the fact that the government is finally bringing in the entrepreneurial deduction of personal entrepreneurs from the beginning of next year. We have speeded up the introduction of entrepreneurship reduction, and we would have liked it to have been implemented since the beginning of this year. Government action to improve employment has been criticised as either wrong or inadequate. However, there are other good proposals in the post-Framework proposals in addition to entrepreneurship reduction. Turning unemployment benefit from passive support into active support has also been the aim of the KD. The use of state-funded unemployment benefits as start-up grants, pay subsidies and mobility grants will encourage the unemployed. However, the transfer of funds from one item to another is not enough; there is also a need for funding for employment, and the unemployed need expert advice on setting up business and making use of subsidies. Mr President! The Government's report states that "sustainable growth can only be achieved through innovation and productivity growth in enterprises". The government's analysis is quite correct here, but the solutions it makes are, in part, incompatible with this analysis. Innovation and productivity growth are difficult to obtain if, at the same time, education and research are cut. On the contrary, in this situation, Finland should invest in education and research, when studies show that every euro put into technical research will bring itself back three times as much.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u34	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The increase in the debt burden of future generations must be halted. This government is committed to making the necessary savings and reforms to cover an estimated EUR 10 billion sustainability gap. We agreed on measures in the budgetary plan to maintain the adjustment target of EUR 4 billion in the Government Programme. So the painful austerity decisions are behind us now. Savings are part of a package to cover an estimated EUR 10 billion sustainability gap in the financing of welfare services. Measures to promote growth and employment cover EUR 2 billion, while reforms cover the remaining EUR 4 billion. Reforms, such as social security reform, are progressing on schedule. My goal was to get painful savings decisions and reform policies done during the first year. Now they're done. We are now focusing on ensuring that decisions are implemented and on employment. We must now do everything we can to improve employment. The government has nothing more important to do than create the conditions for people to get the job that makes them part of the community to belong to something, believe in themselves and in the future. Improving employment is an essential condition for the consolidation of public finances. According to the Ministry of Finance forecast, the expected employment rate of around 69.5% in 2019 will end in the government programme in 2021. The government's target of a 72% employment rate in 2019 would turn the general government budget into a surplus already in the same year. Mr Lindtman, the most important measure, namely the negotiation of a social contract, has indeed employed the government throughout the first ten months. Infra Oy was in the central government program — the SDP called Remont Oy — which means that we have incorporated it there and here. Congressman Andersson, would you tell us what government property we've sold this season? Last season, it was sold for billions of dollars. As far as I know, only the sale of Patria has been decided, and that was started last season. Mr President! In order to achieve a significant increase in employment, economic growth must clearly be accelerated. After three years of contraction, the economy grew by 0.5 per cent last year. Investments have already turned to growth. In the future, however, the increase in productive investment will require a significant improvement in the export bet. Finland has still not been able to catch up with the growth rate of the global economy. There have been opportunities, as the export market of Finnish companies' products in the world grew last year. Improving employment requires increasing both demand for and supply of Finnish labour. In order to increase demand, improving the competitiveness of exports through an agreement between social partners is of paramount importance. The government has been determined to work towards an agreement. Now the ball is in the hands of the social partners. New measures to boost employment were decided in the spending limits debate, the most important of which was the extension of the use of unemployment benefits to finance mobility grants, start-up grants and pay subsidies. We also decided on major transport projects in the spending limits debate. They serve the needs of the business community across the country and increase housing construction. Significant investments are now being made in key projects, repair debt management and new infrastructure projects for this and the years 2017-2018. Madam President! Despite high unemployment, the number of job vacancies is also increasing. The growing problem of matching in the labour market is solved in the government by increasing the consideration of unemployment security, tightening the obligation to take up work for the unemployed and reforming the service process of the te-centres. We are also speeding up employment by dismantling incentive traps. In addition, the government has presented a comprehensive entrepreneurship package with a new focus on wage support to lower the threshold for hiring the first employee, the reform of unemployment protection to facilitate self-employment, the innovation voucher for SMEs and the innovation package to boost the use of patents. We are currently working on a number of tax solutions to promote entrepreneurship: for example, a 5% reduction in entrepreneurship will be introduced for non-public limited companies, and we will make it possible for small companies to make a payment-based VAT statement, and so on. These measures are not enough either. A new employment package will be prepared for next autumn's budget debate. The economy needs to grow and employment needs to improve rapidly. Looking at Finland’s weak economic growth in recent years, it is easy to forget that the world around us has seen economic growth for a very long time. Finland cannot afford to miss this upturn in the world economy altogether. In order to avoid this, the economy must be reformed rapidly on all fronts. Only in this way will public finances be brought into balance and publicly funded welfare services will be saved. Mr President! The situation in Finland is certainly not hopeless. It's in our own hands. We're not giving up. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u35	Let's go to the debat. I'll ask those involved to report to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u36	Madam President! In order to create growth and jobs, we really need completely new kinds of solutions, large structural solutions. Now I guess I'll have to change the whole position instead of just fixing it, say the army's visitors. All in all, however, the spiral of obsolescence must be cut. Indeed, in all these reforms, we can stay and stare only at threats and potential shortcomings and close our eyes to the opportunities they are about to give. Mr Lindtman, in your group speech, you put forward additional billions of expenditure for public investment, including in libraries and other public investments. Although I didn't hear how you would have taken those billions, where they would have gone. Would you please tell me the whole thing?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u37	Mr President! Let's start with a positive start. It seems that there is agreement among all parties in this Chamber that it is good to use unemployment benefit actively. But it must be made a clear distinction that this is not about any model on the slope.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u42	Mr President! First of all, from this demarcation list, the tax deduction right of the first employee. An interesting idea that the government has already announced that it will study under the name of an incentive for employment. It must be carefully planned to make it as effective as possible. You talk year after year and month after month about using Emu buffers. However, we have repeatedly been judged by civil servants and assessors responsible for the state finances that this margin is in fact negligible or non-existent if the pension contribution for future generations is also considered responsible. In this respect, I would ask for precision whenever you throw out that card. You talked about investing in libraries, infrastructure, schools. This government will stretch spending limits as much as possible in relation to debt and tax increases, so that money is spent elsewhere. Abbreviated months from banks — it would probably cost something. How much? What do you suggest? As far as the Greens are concerned, I am particularly concerned that the plight of municipalities should not be increased by dropping the expenditure side of municipalities. We did not see such irresponsible thinking on the part of the Greens during the previous term of government, when I was a special assistant to the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u43	Madam President! It is an excellent thing that the options offered by the Social Democrats to the government are of interest. Now that you have taken some of them in your own laurels, we are happy to offer more of them, for example: health centres and schools and day care centres. There is a model for this — seed funding — in our alternative budget. Mr President! Finland is now being taken in the wrong direction. This is demonstrated by the fact that there will be no more jobs and fewer jobs. On top of that, although you promised before the election that you would not, Prime Minister, cut off students, pensioners and families with children, now you will. But what is particularly interesting is that you have now found one answer to all the problems, and that is the issue of limited liability. First, forests and nature, next, health centres, and next, you are putting roads, railways, maritime routes and roads into a limited company. Prime Minister, before the election, you said that Finland should be put in good shape. Is there one word left out?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u44	Madam President! In-service representative Lindtman so much that it is probably a question of putting Finland in a "requirement". I would like to make a few comments on this point, which I have tried to raise many times. Households and businesses pay taxes on their income and consumption, quite right. If people's disposable income is reduced due to excessive government cuts, consumption will decrease and the taxes that the government will receive will be reduced. At the same time, the costs of unemployment and increased social security expenditure increase the plight of the budgetary position. My question is this: what assumptions does the government base on the forecast of the increase in VAT revenue, when your line of deduction is precisely eating up the purchasing power of the citizens, and how many economic novelists must tell you this before you believe it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u45	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä, you yourself have argued that you are prepared to sell state property to finance investment. The Left Alliance Parliamentary Group has repeatedly asked for more information on these plans, and we have not received such information. But now is certainly a good time ago to ask a direct question and hope for a direct answer: Does this question of yours mean that this government is not selling any state property or state ownership, including companies subject to Solidium?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u46	Värderade Talman! New jobs are definitely needed, but it is good to remember that our country's economy will not be turned into a sustainable growth path through any form of enterprise or work. It is good, but it is by no means enough that we build apartments for each other or chop wood for our neighbor. I hope and believe that ministers will understand the importance and potential of exports to the growing market and of high industrial value added, and that we will remember that we still have many real pearls around Finland. If they leave, however, the following address is usually China, India or Brazil, not any other city of Finland. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister: will you make sure that, when considering health and education cuts and reforms, something keeps an overall picture in hand so that it does not accidentally weaken areas where international top companies are seeking well-being throughout Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u47	Madam President! In his speech, the Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, said that a touch of optimism in public debate would not be detrimental to creating a positive economic cycle, and the Prime Minister Sipilä confirmed it by saying at the end of his speech that the situation in Finland is not hopeless and is still in our own hands. I agree with you. We cannot bring Finland up by cultivating pessimism. I do not wish to be a spoilt of joy in this situation, but responsible financial management also involves identifying risks. In two months' time, the British will vote for their membership of the EU, and I ask: does the government have a contingency plan for Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u48	Mr President! Before the elections, Prime Minister, you repeated on several occasions that the social pact solves the big problems of our society. You were quite clearly of the opinion that cuts in Finnish society for disadvantaged people will not be made if you become elected Prime Minister. We agree that the increase in the debt burden must be stopped at some time. I would like to say that when you say that savings decisions have now been taken, that is probably the case, but they come before the ordinary person every year, because they will affect each year from now on. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you whether you sought a mandate to transform the welfare state into a market society. Now you have made a decision with regard to Metsähallitus and now you are making a decision with regard to the fairway network, where the user pays, the polluter pays. Have you received a mandate from the people for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u49	Mr President! Of course, in listening to the opposition, we must be pleased that we have a rhetorically very clever opposition, but perhaps there could be a little more content. As regards this government’s budgetary plan, as a representative of the government’s party, I am very proud and pleased that the government will keep what it promises. As a small individual, I would also like to thank you, Mr President, for the additional funding that looks to the future for the Genome Centre, which is revolutionising and changing Finnish health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u50	Mr President! I am surprised to find myself wondering how much weight this government’s promises — promises when we have already heard a wide range of things, but it seems that this government will always be overcome by market forces. You have promised many things, Prime Minister. You promised not to operate on the underprivileged, and you made sure that everyone was treated equally. That's not what happened. You really punish people with low incomes. You also promised that the conditions for living will be maintained throughout Finland. Now we have noticed that everything is about corporateization. There will be no more mail, no cabs, no trains and so on. And the answer is that the world will be better if we introduce the companies. The last and worst is the promise that education will not be cut off. I, the Prime Minister, would like you to see what your colleague, your minister, is doing in the Ministry of Education, given your sacred promise that there will be no further cuts in education. New cuts in university centers are coming from there, where the money from university centers is being reduced again. So even the promises of education could not be kept.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u51	Mr President! Indeed, the government has eaten its promises many times. The Centre Party and the Coalition Party promised that education would not be cut, but it is there that massive cuts have been made. The True Finns promised that the poorest would not be cut — the government is taking away from the poor. I agree with Prime Minister Sipilä that we must do everything we can to increase employment, but yesterday's employment openings did leave many questions open. Similarly, this policy of cutting the government takes a completely different direction from that of increasing jobs. The government considers it appropriate to blame and discipline the unemployed, although our main problem is that there is no economy and no jobs. Why does the government not focus on job creation, but put all its energy into increasing bureaucracy and increasing the squatting and stalking of the unemployed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u52	Mr President! In this debate, I would certainly like to see an honest, transparent report from the Social Democrats on what you would cut off, what taxes you would increase, when you, Mr Rinne, on 20 March 2015 — a month before the elections — promised that, after the elections, the Social Democrats would make a 4 billion adjustment: 3 billion expenditure cuts, 2 billion of them immediately, 1 billion in spring 17, and a billion in tax evasion. This is unclaimed from you. Now, ladies and gentlemen — you have three former finance ministers at your disposal — make your own responsible option of spending limits.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u53	Madam President! We have an alternative budget with solutions for all of these. Of course, we will also have our own spending limits, and that is why, Mr President, it will be because this government is in the wrong direction once and for all. It is wrong when there is not enough investment in employment and it is wrong when it is unfair. As far as the promises are concerned, Mr Sipilä, you said before the elections that the euro for families with children, the unemployed, the students is not being cut, and now they are being cut. What is more, President-in-Office of the Council, is the fact that, apart from cuts that are unfair and contrary to promises, Finland is now being brought to the market with no sorrow. It is truly confusing that forests, nature, hospitals, health centres and now national property, tracks, roads — everything — must be incorporated. Finland is being made ready for sale, and I wonder how, for example, the downtown representatives in this Chamber can sign these guidelines.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u54	Madam President! "Can't be left behind", Presidential instructions,and would like to ask the government to make sure that the economy is resolutely The work has been made number one, and only with Finnish work will this country succeed in the future, and I welcome the fact that significant investment is also being made in entrepreneurship and in creating these jobs in Finland. I would also like to thank you for the fact that, after severe cuts, there are no further cuts in education. However, the budget of the police is still under strain by the spending limits cut-backs made during the Socialist Finance Minister's term, and I would like to ask Minister Orpo: is it possible to get these demarine police cuts in place in the coming years?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u55	Madam President! In this area of employment, I would like to take an example of how it can succeed in business life: In Varkaus, we discussed employment with local business associations, specifically on the part of the city, that the city would give a certain amount of money for entrepreneurs to employ the long-term unemployed. The answer to them was that the situation is so difficult that it is not worth hiring even if there is support. People's purchasing power is low and risks are not being taken — for example, in the construction of renovations, they are being passed on — because there is no certainty about the future. My question, Prime Minister Sipilä: what measures does the government intend to take to improve people's purchasing power and to improve their faith in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u56	Värderade fru talman! Inför hela landsets befolkning visade regeringen i går hur oenig den är. Först håller minister Berner en pressinfo där Hon berättar om den stora trafikreformen, och effecter några minuter, en cheap senare, går utrikesminister Soini ut och skjuter ner hela förslaget. Det är många med oss i svenska riksdagsgruppen, också många manniskorute i landet som nu funderar på vad det är regeringen sysslar med. Är det så rai man ska styra Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u57	Madam President! One of the best achievements of the previous government is an agreement in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, a cooperation agreement, or MAL agreement, which invests in the capital region and commits them to certain housing production in order to obtain affordable housing. This cooperation is now generating significant economic growth from which the country as a whole will benefit, and many jobs will be created daily in the capital region. I would now like to ask the Prime Minister: as this framework continues this good line of the previous government and is positive
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u60	Then Prime Minister Sipilä, three minutes from that place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u61	Madam President! According to my information, 17.5. is a corporate governance strategy for discussion in Parliament. That's when we get to discuss corporate governance. But yes, we must be really active if we can sell as much government property as we did last season. The difference between the euro and the British — are we prepared for it? Yes, we have discussed and prepared for different situations, but of course we hope and our preferred option is for the British to remain a member of the European Union. Representative Rinne, the SDP promised 100,000 new jobs in the last election — 100,000 jobs were lost. This is a big difference and shows how difficult a whole we are talking about. Well, then this intimidation with this incorporation: This is totally inconceivable. Tampere, for example, has incorporated activities and no one is afraid of them. Many other cities have done it. We all know in this Chamber that last season the Metsähallitus law was not completed and it would have come to the finish line in this form. We need major structural reforms. Now we are doing a survey of this traffic cycle, which, when it comes to realising and finding the right Finnish form, is a huge reform and takes a huge step towards digitalisation and so on. We, as a government, have not made a decision on this, but have decided to settle it by consulting the various parties, and then we will form a common position within the government. The same applies to this idea of Infra Oy, which, when implemented, creates enormous opportunities for public investment with a completely new model. These are major reforms and that is why we want to proceed through the debate. It is incomprehensible that the opposition is opposed to us openly bringing these big issues to the debate first, and we are asking the opposition, the companies, the citizens for their feedback. Now is the time, and then decisions are made. This is a new political culture which seems to be extremely difficult to accept.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u62	Secretary Stubb, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u63	Madam President! I do not know whether I interpret the silver lining too much in this debate, but we can always look at decisions from different angles, and every decision involves a lot of pressure and criticism. It can come from opposition, it can come from rating agencies, the Commission, international institutions, it comes from voters, it comes from municipalities, cities, individual citizens. But at the end of the game we do see in the government this spending limits decision as a step in the right direction. When I look at our economic forecasts for next year — an increase of 0.5% last year, 0.9% for this year, 1.2% for the following year — there is something positive about it that has not been seen in the Finnish economy, especially on the public side for a long time. However, I would see no reason for rejoicing. This spending limits decision was partly business as usual, in which the government showed and proved that we are sticking to our own economic policy line, to the adjustment of EUR 4 billion, not to increase taxation, and to the objective of breaking debt. I attended the spring meeting of the IMF and the World Bank in Washington this weekend and had the opportunity to discuss the state of the Finnish economy with Commissioner Moscovici and Mr Dombrovskis. This budgetary plan is a sort of stability programme for all of us, and it must be put into that framework, then, of course, you may disagree with individual decisions. But when Mr Lindtman said in his own group that the SDP had four objectives — all of them, employment in order, skills in order and fair adjustment — these are all objectives that the government is also seeking. But, above all, there was now a message because we have to respond to a letter from the Commission, among other things. We have responded to this and will receive a final answer this spring. We are trying to avoid measures that would lead us to an excessive deficit procedure. I also believe that when Finland's economic policy is discussed, the fact that the budgetary plan remains within the framework also demonstrates to the outside world that Finland's economic policy and long-term direction can be relied on, i.e. the framework line we have had since 2003. But this is not enough, of course, and now I am not talking about adjustments, but about government measures. We put the framework in the package, then we made the decision on the social framework, and now we are investing in moving the social pact forward. Along the way, there are giant projects, of which the traffic cycle was a good example, the employment package, the entrepreneurial package, was another example. I believe that at the moment all Finns hope that political decision-makers, and especially the government, will make decisions that will bring about a turning point in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u64	Let's keep this conversation going.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u65	Mr President! Mr Prime Minister, in the last few weeks you have chosen a tactic in which, every time we talk about these economic and employment issues, you say that the previous government did not do this and that and the aim of the 100,000 jobs did not materialise. I think it's time for you to stop blaming and take responsibility. You are the Prime Minister, not the leader of the opposition. We have offered you, in our own alternative budget, important measures for this year to create jobs here and now. There is a whole that has been evaluated by the Parliamentary Information Service: 35,000 jobs this year. So we have a package of tools that offers work here and now. When this alternative budget was proposed, you were very overdoing it. Now I ask you: are you familiar with exactly what has been done in the alternative budget, and are you prepared to introduce it? I am prepared to present them to you exactly if you are not yet familiar with them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u66	Mr President! I ask about this social reform, as it also emerged in these frameworks in the budgetary adjustment programme. Originally, the aim of this social welfare reform was precisely to strengthen basic health care, i.e. to provide people with better health care.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u69	Mr President! The key objective of the reform of social welfare and health care is and will continue to be to ensure equal protection for all Finns in social and health care services. Neither the Government nor Finland are privatising social and health services. Public authorities will assume strong responsibilities and even stronger responsibilities in the future as this social reform moves forward. The Government’s decision on the spending limits is a good indication of the Government’s ability to operate. The credible economic policy line remained, the overall tax rate does not rise, there will be no further savings in education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u71	Madam President! This indebtedness process must be addressed, and Prime Minister, there is one more question. Yes, it is the party that has owed Finland debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u74	Mr President! It is truly regrettable and even sad that you, the left-wing opposition, the Greens, have chosen your tactics to intimidate the citizens, to intimidate them with all the reforms and presentations that the government is bringing to the table. You play the same drama from one week to the next, the subject changes a little, and you always choose a new subject for another role. It would be much more credible if you really would enter into a constructive debate on the future of Finland and on the measures that will bring Finland up. The government is making bold reforms, is making decisions that in the long term will improve competitiveness and the economy of this country, in a better condition than what was left of the SDP last season. It's a cold fact. With regard to the Left Alliance, I must say that it is regrettable that your economic line can sum up this way: more debt, more taxes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u75	Madam President! Now that Mrs Rantakangas was talking about greens, we have to answer. He called for a constructive debate. After all, we have been constructive in offering our options, but here you can see that it has not been listened to. So when you've told me that option, you haven't listened to it. There is nothing surprising or new about these Government spending limits decisions: additional cuts for the disadvantaged, additional cuts for the weakest in the world. What is surprising is, of course, that money is being given, and the biggest polluters are being rewarded. This is new and is a very short-sighted policy. And the government still hasn't cancelled the training cuts. Yesterday was Yle's A2 night, there were people from right to left, everyone, entrepreneurs, non-entrepreneurs, everyone, barked at those training cuts — this is a very sensitive subject for members of the coalition who are really looking at me here. There is nothing new about the government, there is no turning point.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u77	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the minister who is no longer present, for the clear answers that we have received in the past. On my own behalf, I will respond to false accusations made against my own group and my party. Firstly, we were accused of the European Stability Mechanism giving Greece money during this parliamentary term. I would remind you that the European Stability Mechanism has not given any other money to Greece except what the Social Democrats themselves were giving in their own madness during the last parliamentary term to this stability mechanism. We were accused of allegedly forgetting the taxation of those who earn less than EUR 1000. On the contrary, this government promotes the possibility that EUR 1000 can be made tax-free. You're suggesting that the Emu buffers should be activated. This is the most extraordinary proposal, because this is an agreement with the social partners on the issue of the buffers of pension funds. Now that the compulsory laws have been abolished, your main objective is to bring the compulsory laws back and to walk over the agreement with the social partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u78	Mr President! Yes, now is the time to ask for the protection of voters. No government party has yet announced before the elections that almost all public activities in social welfare and health care are being incorporated. No government party reported that it intends to transfer the entire Finnish fairway property to a company to be established. Last season, neither the Finns of Finland nor the Centre said that they want to have Metsähallitus incorporated. They were against it. Prime Minister Sipilä has just called for the opposition to be pleased that, as a result of these consolidation policies, we can now discuss these issues. These things really should have been discussed before the election. That would have been fair to the voters. They would have had the right to know that the government is planning massive incorporation and probably the subsequent privatisation, because at the same time the government has maintained that it will sell public ownership to finance these key projects. So, yes, this is really the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u79	Mr President! After all, by eliminating the self-confident, the fiercest reproach and intimidation, the debate has left us all with the consensus that employment is the key to what will happen to this society over the next few years. Employment solves the fate of our society and also the personal fate of many, including the problem of debt, which is a common issue for all of us. This spring is spoken of as the spring of decisions, and here there are fine signs of a turn for the better, according to experts. Will the turn come, in that sense the kiky agreement, the social pact, be a fundamental issue, and I hope that the opposition in the SDP will continue to work towards this agreement. The openings that have been highlighted here are part of building the future. They must not be feared, they must be discussed in a constructive way. And to the end: I hope that the government will take a grip on the social welfare solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u80	Mr President! You can be absolutely convinced, Mrs Kääriäinen, that the Socialist Party is a responsible party that works in Finnish society in such a way that things can be better. As far as the Central Party is concerned, Mr Rantakangas, in particular, has on several occasions accused the Social Democrats in some way of preventing this agreement from moving forward. On the contrary, much has been done to find a labour market solution that provides predictability and stability for the future. I am very concerned at the moment about the fact that the government is coming up with rather tough proposals in relation to fixed-term employment relations, the limitation of the obligation to take back, and so it is being put at risk, also through the tightening of these unemployment benefits, that this climate will now be maintained in those union negotiations and that solutions can be expected from there. Now I appeal to the Central Party, to the assembly in particular and to the people of Peru that you are now doing everything you can to prevent this atmosphere from being poisoned again through forced or coercive laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u81	Mr President! In connection with yesterday's press release from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy: the newsletter was entitled "Unemployment security for work or entrepreneurs", i.e. the part paid by the state can be used for start-up money and pay support. The assumption here is that there are jobs or opportunities for entrepreneurship behind a small threshold. So far quite right, but if so, why have these instruments not been used before? That's why Lindström's steak doesn't taste good. This is just a change in the method of financing, the mechanism and the tools are more or less the same. Over the past year we would have been able to spend much more on pay support, but for example, start-up funds, which should always be the primary source of funding, were in short supply early in the year, and long-term unemployment has tripled in a short period of time, with the number of people who have been unemployed for more than two years almost quadrupling, so how on earth is this some kind of magic trick? Has a minister, Lindström, come up with something unique because money comes from the state in the same way?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u82	Honorable Speaker! However, now that we are discussing the budgetary plan, attention must be paid to what was the economic policy line of this government when we started to work on the government programme. It was the balancing of public finances and the breaking of debt. Now that we look at the outlook for the economy, the outlook for the economy in the world is very modest and growth is not so much in sight. Public finances have been in deficit since 2008 and must be turned into surpluses. The expenditure rate has increased, central government debt, municipal debt has increased, central government guarantees have increased, and at the same time the state treasury has been eaten up, but in this difficult situation we are able to make hard, large, good infrastructure investments, we are able to promote bioeconomy projects and promote digitalisation in many directions. This is a good road.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u83	Värderade fru talman! The entrepreneurship package of the government has many fairly good things. In essence, however, it does not create a permanent structural change, but a number of grants and allocations. The positive thing is that it says that unemployment allowance could be used as a start-up allowance. Have I understood correctly if I assume that this does not apply to earnings-related, i.e. in practice, when you become unemployed, skills will expire for over a year before you create an inspiration for becoming an entrepreneur? I understand that this is not just a matter of the will of the government, but are there plans to take it this way?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u84	Mr President! In that way, I see that the government's policy to reverse this economy makes sense in many ways, that is to say, three ways: on the one hand, to seek savings, on the other hand, to make major structural changes, to seek solutions to our structural problems, and, on the other hand, to seek major means of achieving the elements of growth. In other words, there is a much talked about social pact, our employment and entrepreneurship packages, the dismantling of standards, major infrastructure investments, EUR 1 billion for key projects, the innovation package, and all the time the aim is to keep the tax rate under control. I understand that these measures specifically seek better employment, and that employment is, after all, the best thing we have in terms of justice, equity and equality. So, all in all, this whole thing when you think about it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u85	Madam President! I'm a little confused here because the Prime Minister Sipilä pointed to the SDP and gave false testimony to the SDP in the matter of Metsähallitus and immediately left the scene. Unlike the centre, we did not hide behind the EU on this issue, and unlike the centre, we had other options in particular than this limited liability company.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u86	Madam President! The government is giving transport a lot of money, a billion dollars, yet there are still a lot of road projects that would be necessary to finance. To this end, we need to find out how to multiply infrastructure investments and that infrastructure construction would also create jobs. Whether it is an Infra Oy-type company or what it is, it must now be resolved and brought to the debate. It is clear, however, that with budgetary money alone this will not work. The budgetary framework and the EU deficit rule also prevent billions of investments. I understand that the Ministry of Finance would also have a more positive attitude towards exploring new forms of non-budgetary financing for the financing of road infrastructure. Is that right? Of course, it is clear that this must be cost-neutral for the motorist, so that the costs do not increase when work needs to be taken longer. Then, as Mr Laukkanen said, there will also be investments.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u87	Madam President! The University of Eastern Finland has decided to abolish the Savonlinna School of Teacher Education, and this decision threatens to leave the property of tens of millions of euros empty.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u88	Mr President! The original objective of the Sote reform was to integrate services and strengthen basic health care, thereby improving services and cost-effectiveness. Now that the government has taken the path of privatisation and incorporation, these goals will not be fulfilled. It seems that the reform of the social security system is firmly in the pocket of the Coalition Party. Government's latest social welfare adventures will jeopardise the long-term balance of public finances and people's social services. This is very regrettable because this is a very important and necessary reform from the point of view of both the economy and services. Mr President! In the past, 43 % of development cooperation has already been cut, but this is not enough for this government, but an additional 25 million cuts were agreed in the spending limits debate. This is unreasonable. Could you not consider canceling these additional surgeries? Wouldn't you rather cut this 25 million out of Finnfund's big capital increase?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u89	Madam President! The SDP in its group statement revealed why we are in this economic situation. The group speaker said that change must always be safer than standing still — that is, change must always be safer than standing still. That's what this is all about. We have been eating over our money because we have not dared to take on change. We've been standing still, and it's been a safe state. He's in debt. He's eaten over our money. This government now dares to make changes, seize those opportunities to appeal. Congratulations to the government on the fact that the spending limits debate decision has been reached. When I was driving to work this morning, I heard Pave Maijanen's song, "Take care." He there sang that you should hold to the decisions, in which the power sprouts. The government, hold on to the decisions, the power to sprout in them. But employment is an important issue, and I ask when employment will be facilitated. Now employment is frightening. When will digitalization bring about such a system that when you employ a person, you do not have to
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u90	Mr President! You wouldn't believe that this is a representative of the Prime Minister's Party of the previous government. My friend said that he does not want to be the government's top project because that New Orwellian word means cutting a lot and cutting even more. This has happened in education, in the treatment of unemployment and in the livelihood of low incomes. But I am pleased that the government has dared to make that change, that passive unemployment benefit can be used for active measures. It's not new. This is the model we have had before when there was a shortage of that money. But this model of yours means that you are now shortening the start-up periods and you are cutting the pay subsidy period for the long-term unemployed by one year. The saddest thing is that you are cutting down and cutting down on employment in the third sector. They are not the most effective in the world from the point of view of unemployment treatment or the transition to an open labour market, but they are from the point of view of prevention of exclusion
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u91	Mr President! Employment is a and o, as has been said here about the government parties, but it seems, unfortunately, that the employment objective is being missed. The year has been wasted, and the wage settlement is only now under negotiation, even though the SAK made a very generous hand extension last autumn — it was not seized, and time has been wasted. It now appears that an entirely new structural obstacle to employment is being created. I am referring, President, to the fact that the employment rate of young women in Finland is already considerably lower than in Sweden, for example. And what is the government doing? Cut the subjective children's day care right, increase day care fees in a way that makes it even more difficult to raise the employment rate of young women, to work for young women. Why are we doing this? Should you not, Mr Stubb, be about to break down structural barriers to employment? I fear that, in this policy of yours, the employment rate of young women will remain permanently low and we will not get anywhere near it at 72%.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u92	Madam President! For the information of representative Rantakanka: there is no party book for good or bad idea, nor does it know the government-opposition limits. I would like to thank and acknowledge to the government, among other things, the basic income experiment, the long arc of the soil, transport projects, many good entrepreneurship and employment openings. I also agree that supporting domestic demand will not solve the problems arising from economic structures and their changes. But Lindström's steak here is that the erosion of domestic demand, alongside structural problems, also reinforces cyclical problems and prevents its bridge from being built over a recession. That is why I asked you, among other things, Alexander Stubb, Minister of Finance: what will happen to the future of these VAT returns, what assumptions are they based on, because consumption does not increase — on the contrary, it falls?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u93	Madam President! When listening to the opposition, the government did so or so, it is constantly being done backwards — in your opinion. Nothing is good, Finland is a bad place to live and live, this is clearly your opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u96	Madam President! The Government decided to increase municipal social and health service charges, the subjective right to early childhood education was limited, the main fees for afternoon care were doubled. However, not all municipalities carried out the government's wishes, and now you are punishing these municipalities because they did not do what you wanted them to do. You do not respect the autonomy of municipalities or the judgment of municipalities. Now you set the minimum customer fees that must be introduced, wanted them or not by the municipality. In addition, you require municipalities to reduce the staffing of institutional care for the elderly. If the municipalities do not act as you do in this new proposal, will you again punish the municipalities and make more savings if the municipalities feel that they do not want to undermine the services of the elderly as you do?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u97	Mr President! It seems that there is a great consensus that we need economic growth, fiscal consolidation and growth, especially in the new sectors, including the former ones. It creates jobs. I have followed this debate and with great interest the alternative to the opposition. I am also familiar with the alternative budget of the SDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u104	Madam President! I would like to thank Mr Töll very much, because I know that he has read the alternative budget. I would recommend whether the group president, for example, could give Mr Niiko the alternative budget so that there is no constant need for discussion here, which is an option for the SDP. In fact, there are a number of concrete options which, however, bring about better employment with less debt. President! As far as this intimidation is concerned, I do feel that part of the government has now been frightened of its own policy. I have drawn attention to the fact that there has not been a single Finnish minister here all this time — I think they have already begun to terrorise this party for betraying election promises. Here the Prime Minister in an amazing way, the central prime minister, defends the fact that Finland is being put into good business, that everything is being incorporated. It's amazing. But of course I understand that it is easy for Mr Stubb to be there, because this is a very cooperative policy. But that's what I'm calling for from the Finns of Peru, what were the messages from the city centre before the election. Certainly not, Mr President, these additional cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u105	Madam President! Congressman Lindtman suggested that the government sits idle.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u113	Madam President! Mr Lindtman, you are right, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party held to the fact that what has been agreed in the past, that is to say that 4 billion will be adjusted at 19 levels, will be retained. You can imagine, Mr Lindtman, which would have been an assessment and reaction to the Government's ability to act both in Finland and abroad if the government had come to the spending limits conference and told you that we were not holding on to the 4 billion which would have required new savings of less than 400 million. In that case, the assessment that the government's ability to act is not in order, As far as study aid is concerned, I will continue to say that studies will improve the employment forecasts and the future level of earnings of these young people. It's important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u114	Madam President! After all, the main objective must be to improve employment together. That is quite clear. I think the best way to deal with unemployment and employment is to be able to create new jobs. The responsible policy is that we in every way strengthen the Finnish faith in tomorrow, the intimidation technique does not get any new supporters. Fortunately, this government option is much more positive and forward-looking
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u117	Mr President! The Social Democratic Party and the opposition as a whole will certainly be prepared to support such a policy that genuinely creates economic growth and employment. The only problem now is that this government policy has frozen economic growth and frozen employment. Now I see why this representative is here. In his view, the Tölli has been a little critical of the lack of concreteness in our paper. This is due to the fact that this package of entrepreneurs in the SDP's alternative budget, which contains eight sets of programmes plus two points for direct employment, is missing. There is a reduction of the first employee, which has this EUR 20000 per year to support the professional, and there is also help in terms of employment and cash flow, an additional contribution to the personal employment advice of self-employed workers. There is economic growth in the creative sectors, there is support for service companies and so on, concrete things. I suggest you read this. The SDP always looks forward. It may be that mistakes have been made backwards, but new things are being done and things are being taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u118	Mr President! This last sentence from Antti Rinte was indeed an important one. The Social Democrats have now proposed the introduction of EMU buffers. As I recall during the last parliamentary term, a well-known opposition leader went on to present this in connection with his own shadow budget, and then Mr Lindtman, when he was in the government, said that this Emu presentation would take our children's bread out of their mouths. Is Congressman Lindtman now taking the children out of the mouth of the bread? Similarly, Mr Rinne, who was then chairman of the Pro-trade union, completely knocked this out. But, Minister of Finance, one thing that I think is very important has been ignored, and it is a reduction in the household. Now that household allowance is being increased, and the amounts are not known what it should do to families. The spending limits include amounts such as 18 million for the state, 10 million for municipalities, a total of 28 million. To which size is this amount in euro in the family?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u119	Mr President! This is where the Social Democrats are doing a good job of cultivating this alternative budget. Mr Rinne has already offered local education to the Prime Minister, and Mrs Viitanen and Mr Lindtman have often referred to this. I've had this all winter in this locker, and I've been doing a lot of research on this. If we go to these nice savings, we have half-jacking of Sitra's balance sheet, 350 million, a reduction in the earnings-related pension contribution, to which the State benefits 130 million, i.e. the tax bear's share of the EMU buffer, the fight against the black economy, the financial market tax totals more than 400 million — things that would be very difficult to implement in this form. We can then talk to entrepreneurs about a dividend tax of 115 million, a capital tax plus 120 million. Of course, a billion here is the kind of income that, in my opinion, cannot be genuinely justified that this could be used to quill the economy. This revenue side is inevitably a fool in your shadow budget, which is why I do not even think it reasonable that the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister should go into this particularly carefully. But I hope there will be new material that will be more interesting. Tell me how these would create that billion. Do you really believe that?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u120	Madam President! We can also provide Mr Mykkänen with support from this alternative budget. You raised the right issues there, and they illustrate exactly how adjustment can be made more justly and even so that the state takes less debt. After all, it is a question of value choices. And is this the right time to introduce, for example, the Emu buffers, Mr Turunen? Politics is made in time. You've been telling me this is a bad time. They are intended for this purpose, and our alternative is built in such a way that the balance of public finances as a whole is maintained, and so children are not eaten. However, it was not only this fate of the teacher training institution, but also whether you are now in favour of the introduction of these Emu buffers. It would make sense to have employment here and now. But, Mr President, once again, when the Prime Minister has said that this transfer of roads to a limited company is like a business as usual,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u121	Madam President! On the outside, it does seem strongly that communication within the government in this well-marketed open office is being poked badly. It is a pity that the Prime Minister left and there are no ministers of the Finns of Finland here either. The press conference yesterday was so confusing that it left the impression that the Finns of Peru have rejected the presentations made yesterday by Minister Berner. And now it would be good to know whether this establishment of Infra Oy now appears in some way in the frame. Minister Berner said that it should be in use and ready for 2018 — that is, this traffic arch, Oy, or what it will be now — and if so, will it appear in any way in the frame? And if so, how do the Finns feel about it? I think that is what we need to make clear: what is the government's line on this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u122	Mr Lehti, Mr Östman and Mr Andersson, and then Minister Stubb will speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u123	Madam President! Congressman Lindtman paid attention to these Emu buffers. The same fund consists of a share of employment pension companies, currently worth some 175 billion, a huge part of which is invested abroad. And now, if even 5 or 10 billion were released to the Finnish market by employment pension companies, the need for financing in business would have been largely met. I have always wondered why this capital is being used to finance foreign companies when there is so much. There would also be a demand for it in the home country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u124	Madam President! After two hours of discussion and listening, there is a great need to think positively and speak constructively. Finland’s education is the world’s top. We have an advanced technology environment. Finland is a world leader in research and product development. Finland is a bridge between East and West. We have low capital taxation. Finland is the least corrupt country in the world. American Professor Kalb wrote an interesting blog on this subject in December. Inefficient marketing in Finland Professor Kalb calls the best kept secret syndrome. So we have a problem, and that is a common problem for us. My question is: has the government thought about how you and we could help Finnish companies to do better in sales, marketing and the creation of a trademark, for example, like the Swedes?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u125	Mr President! It has once again emerged during this debate that there is agreement on objectives in this Chamber, namely the importance of creating employment and growth. Mr President! Just a few more words about why this incompetence of the government is so problematic: the form of the company undermines the transparency of democracy, which too often leads to a weakening of the position of workers. But, above all, there is now justifiable fear that the government is preparing Finland for sale — and Prime Minister Sipilä has not given any clear answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u126	Then to Minister Stubb, five minutes from that podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u127	Madam President! Here I wonder how best to put together this good economic policy debate, which is linked to this decision on the spending limits, and I came to the conclusion that perhaps the best way to begin is to say a few words about the situation in which this government started, and secondly about the situation right now, in April 2016, and third about how to proceed from now on. So where did we leave from? We left a situation where our gross domestic product is still below what it was in 2008. We left a situation where Finland had doubled its debt burden within six years. We left a situation where unemployment grew rapidly. We left a situation where Finland’s competitiveness was dragging behind the control countries. We left a situation where our unit labour costs were too high, where we did not export, where there was pressure on the global economy and, of course, a problematic demographic structure. As a result, the economy contracted for three years in a row. It was, as it were, the starting point, and at least it is not funny to me, Mr Rinne. So where are we right now? I believe that the latest forecast may be a reflection of the faith in the future and hope that has also been heard in this Chamber in a few speeches, because we have long been on the road to small, albeit sprouting, growth and we are also on our way to the moment when our debt is falling. We are also in a situation where, if everything goes well, our unemployment is falling and we have been able to hold on for the first time after three years to the fact that the budget deficit is below 3%. At the same time, we are in a situation where there are certain winds that are worth taking advantage of in our economy and also in the economy as a whole, such as the ECB's revitalising monetary policy, if this term can be used, the price of raw materials and the relation of the euro to the dollar. But there are also counter-wind elements which were much discussed at the IMF Spring Summit, such as the stalling of emerging economies, excluding China and India, and then geopolitical risks and perhaps also the Brexi mentioned in this debate. But the drugs that everyone gives us are actually the same. They relate to structural reforms, to improving competitiveness, to dismantling standards. They are also linked to the fact that taxation can no longer be tightened up. Here I may disagree with Mr Andersson: We can no longer afford to increase public investment radically; we have one of the highest levels. Moreover, we can no longer afford to increase our overall tax rate. In that sense, I agree that we have a different economic policy than the one you have just put forward. But the good thing about this spending limits decision, in other words, in the current state of affairs, is that we have an economic policy that can also be trusted by the outside world, and we stuck to what has been agreed. Then the last and the third comes the way from now on. This government has been standing for ten months now, and we have built a path for decisions and started its decision-making. I also understand the criticism of this, because every time there are major reforms, there will be criticism. Sote solution, spending limits decision, social contract, employment measures, entrepreneurship measures, future tax measures, changes in ownership control, asylum situation, traffic arch, key projects — they are all decisions, and they are decisions that potentially reverse Finland's direction. The fact is that in the midwayer 2017 or March next year we will see how strong this translation has been along the way. I still believe that the cornerstones of this government's economic policy are credible economic policy, improving the employment situation and thus creating growth. I understand the criticism of these decisions, but I finally believe, after seven lean years, that a turnaround in Finland is taking place. Of course, it is not just praise for the government, but all Finns who are going to make this change in general.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u128	The debatt can be continued until 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u129	Mr President! Mr Rinne, you said that you wanted to do everything you could to promote this competitiveness pact, and even the slightly signed one criticised the fact that I had doubts as to how the news that has just come into co-ordination can be reconciled when the trade union pro said that if the government does not change the decisions that were taken in the spending limits debate, then the trade union pro will not go along with this competitiveness agreement — management with the same party background. What is your credibility and authenticity in the fact that you really want to take care of the country? This is a foreign parliamentary act, which has just come from the news of the STT, and means that the decisions of the democratic government are being changed by means of a foreign parliament. You are here to say that you are promoting a competitiveness pact. Who will then believe what you say if this news is true?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u132	Mr President! An interesting speech from Mr Rantakanka, quite incredible in terms of content. If you have listened carefully to what the various ministers have said about the role of Mrs Lauri Ihalainen in this whole affair, it is quite clear that the Socialist Party and Mr Ihalainen are supporting the government's efforts to achieve a labour market solution. I have publicly called for trade unions to enter into negotiations on the basis of the result of this negotiation. Now you are dragging a single trade union into this, with independent decision-makers, as if you are bringing the Socialist Party into this in some way. We have nothing to do with the union pro. Social Democratic Party is a social party, affects Finnish society, and Trade Union Pro is a lobby organisation. It seems to me that what I have just said as a warning is that the government parties and the government are currently making a mess of this pattern on their own,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u133	Mr President! I particularly appreciate Mr Ihalainen and his work on reaching a joint agreement very much. The Prime Minister has also said many times that Mr Ihalainen in particular has done all he can to bring about this agreement, but somehow it seemed like an order work when you here say that the government should not do this or this and that this competitiveness agreement will be jeopardised — it will take 10 minutes to announce from the chairman of Pro, the leadership that there will be a threat to the government that it will be excluded. In this respect, if you sincerely believe that you are not behind this operation, then yes. And you will certainly be able to influence Pro's leadership that such threats to the government will not go to the government when the government has done everything in its power to ensure that this competitiveness pact is implemented, because it is in the interests of the country, it is also in the interests of us all in the long term, the political interest of the SDP, because we always have different powers and opposition parties. In this respect, I wanted to raise this. I knew this was a painful thing for you, and I don't want to blame you, but I want to ask you if this is really the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u134	Mr President! Yes, I must say that this is an incomprehensible situation. The so-called Lindström steak has been discussed here today. Lindström's steak has proven to be a must-be steak. It is precisely here for a few months now that we have thought that women with low pay will not be more disciplined. We have been under the impression that the workers will no longer be held liable. But it did not take long to find out that there will be a work sample, that there will be a significant increase in unpaid work and, at the same time, the Minister of Education will also have his own work on the education contract. The labour market organisations have already said that the measure will be full, and once the measure has been reached, then this government will make new decisions that will jeopardise the competitiveness pact. When Sipilä said that this is a new policy, that this is now the new policy, I must say that it is very difficult to understand this new policy. Here the Minister of Finance said that things were now put in the package. Yes, the roads, the forests, the land, the waters, the fairways.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u135	Madam President! This frame rack has been a government spine meter, and I think this test has been passed well. The government has found its backbone in a difficult situation, the savings targets have not been reduced and a number of measures to boost employment have been decided in the spending limits debate. We in Finland have really had a need to show that we are a reliable and good country to invest, to invest. We have also shown that we are prepared to fight for a welfare society and also to reform boldly. There's been a job at the heart of all this. The line of work has been not only the line of the Coalition Party but also the line of the Board of Directors. This line has included the fact that work must always be profitable. Here, the SDP has offered the government a different kind of support education and, on the other hand, tax increases, you have also accused the government of memory loss. I would like to ask if you yourself have forgotten your own speeches before the election. I recall that at the time there was talk of a savings list of EUR 2 billion and an additional list of EUR 1 billion. Where
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u136	Madam President! As has been said many times, the SDP has made its own alternative budget, and every year it will do so and its own spending limits policy, and this is precisely the answer to this problem of government policy, the wrong direction in which employment has not been invested enough so far. Even now, the means seem to be very, very questionable as to what has been brought here: a stick for the unemployed and a carrot for the leaders. But, President-in-Office, as far as this problem is concerned, it is precisely the fact that the government has frozen the whole of Finland's employment and competitiveness by blindly believing only that some solution will come in 2017 with a labour market solution. You have lost a year, and the second year is coming, employment is not improving, we are in a spiral of cuts. And, Mr President, this spiral of surgery is not only humanely wrong — it is wrong for these poor people, the unemployed, the sick, the students, pensioners, families with children — it is also an economic path to destruction, because the economy is always getting worse and the necessary growth is not generated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u137	Mr President! A few comments: Firstly, as has been said many times here, the work sample is voluntary. It's absurd to resist it, even by Pro. Corporateization and privatization here are getting messed up, pulling the similarities. It is quite clear that we have companies that are fully owned by the state or municipalities, and they operate on the market and they are very well-functioning and good. It is worth taking this path carefully. As far as this traffic cycle and its parts are concerned, the Finns have committed themselves to this study being carried out. After the study has been carried out, we will assess it, and I am sure it will be, it can already be said, a lot of good things, but, for example, the liberalisation of taxi services is not acceptable to us. This incorporation brings excellent opportunities, and it is worth clarifying, but we will then take a position on it when it is done in a few days' time,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u138	Mr President! The cold is the backbone of the government. Just a few examples in addition to what has already been mentioned here: social and health care customer fees are rising for all, medical reimbursements are being cut again with large scissors, and services are being reduced. There have been many speeches today that concern about the debt burden of future generations, but, in fact, much worse than the economic debt is the fact that future generations are left with a scrapped education system, a unequal health system and increased income disparities. On the other hand, the government is not at all concerned about the growing personal debt burden of students. Economic debt can be reduced in good economic times, but it is almost impossible to recover the welfare debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u139	Madam President! Here, the Minister of Finance quite rightly also reminded us of what international economic organisations, which carry out very extensive studies of the working models of different countries, or of the failing models, have recommended. These economic organisations have recommended research-based measures in Finland for a long time, since the early 2000s, how to get business and employment forward. Now, at last, this government is taking them forward. Many of these are based specifically on expert knowledge, studies, national or international recommendations. It is now amazing that the SDP here is also opposed to reforms, many experts say, where employment is increasing. So here, too, in your alternative budget, it says that 'the most important objective of unemployment security must be to brighten people's rapid employment and to take it as a starting point for benefits'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u142	Madam President! During this debate, I myself would have wished there had been a little more humility and a little less pride in these decisions, which now came to our attention in the framework. It would have been wise, Minister for Finance, to have made these decisions fairer and to correct the mistakes that had already been made. But it is true that the government has at least been consistent with its own economic line. From the beginning, you have decided to operate on the poorest, the most deprived, both here in Finland and then in the world. And it is absolutely true that politics is about values, and that is what this spending limits debate is really showing us. How do you yourself assess how the level of competence in Finland rises with these decisions and these measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u143	Mr President! The fact that Mr Rantakangas raised the question of Pro's demand in the middle of this debate that the government should give up the deterioration of unemployment security and the unpaid work sample was very indignant here. I do not quite understand what is being said about all the changes and improvements proposed by the government, once and for all. For example, this work sample is indeed unpaid, unemployment benefit is not lost during that period, but it may be the best option for many people, such as young people, to prove it. It may be a more meaningful option than going to an interview, or if, for example, the papers are not so good, then there can be the only and good way to show your skills. Why do you want to shut down this road from those kids? And it's worth looking at this employment paper in the first place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u144	Mr President! It's difficult that Congressman Beachkangas had to leave here. But I would just like to say that this process started a little difficult if you think about employee organisations. 100 hours were required first of all to extend working time — and if not, the government will implement it. Then it turned into a 5% reduction in wages — and if not, there will be a cut of EUR 1.5 billion. And when they didn't, then the law came. This has poisoned this atmosphere, and that is why I have said in this debate on several occasions that it would now be worthwhile for the government to consider what measures it is taking during this negotiation process, that we should now have that peace of work for these unions in difficult circumstances. Extending the 24-hour working time is not a simple thing for the government to take forward or cut 30 per cent of the holiday allowance from low-paid women in the public sector. From this point of view, I would now like the government to be patient.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u145	Madam President! I was a little concerned about the speeches that had to do with this evidence. For probably 30 years, when I recruited new people, I made a work sample so that I gave standard tables, said that in half an hour I would write a report in English, see how many language errors there were, how much of it had been successful in doing the wrong and correct analyses. There is no value in that to an employer other than this demonstration of professionalism, which means that the employer won nothing. Similarly, when I was a publisher, I must have looked to hundreds of potential editors to the effect that if they wrote a summary of the news, it would be appropriate. Without this work sample, no reporter was ever hired. In my opinion, if the work sample is found wrong here, many young people will also lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u146	Mr President! I've been told a story once about continuing the fools' blanket. As I recall, the lesson in that story was that no progress will be made, even if the blanket is continued how if the other end is cut at the same time. Now it seems that this wisdom should be remembered again. Unfortunately, there are several examples of this in this budgetary plan. But I would like to highlight one government policy on the elderly. Old-age services are a whole: home service, enhanced service housing and old-age homes are all pieces of caring for our elderly as a whole. So it does not seem very convincing to welcome the increase of around EUR 5 million in home care, but, at the same time, EUR 70 million will be cut from the other end for improved service housing and old-age homes. Minister Stubb, I would like to ask you:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u147	Mr President! The Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, spoke about what we can afford. In my opinion, we cannot afford long-term unemployment that we are currently seeing in Finland. The problem with these government employment proposals is precisely that they do not address this major underlying problem, namely the lack of jobs, but they mainly involve additional pressures and tightenings on the unemployed. A good example: I was at an event yesterday when the entrepreneur was asked directly if he would hire someone who was reluctantly forced to work in his business. And he said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u150	Madam President! I think we agree that deliberate misunderstanding does not lead society forward. This framework solution proves that the government has decision-making powers. In the face of emerging growth, small signs of hope, we must dare to encourage hope in order to move forward, and the government's policies to improve the employment situation are absolutely correct. And I believe — when we have also talked about this issue of social security — that the social service train is also moving forward. Regrettably, the opposition has left behind the impression that there is now a mouthpiece, that the old record is being played, and that intimidation has been taken alongside the old, ragged record on the grounds of privatisation and incorporation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u151	Madam President! I, for my part, would like to show that this is not about the beatings, as Mr Kivelä pointed out. I broadly agree with those points of the budgetary plan — and also those of the Finance Minister, Mr Stubb — that fiscal measures aimed at supporting demand are meaningful if, at the same time, they contribute to economic restructuring and support the conditions for future production. I would add that the budgetary measures aimed at supporting demand are meaningful if they prevent a negative economic cycle. We also broadly agree that the objective is a uniform one. We are in favour of structural reforms. As far as this fiscal policy is concerned, we believe that there are too many savings and there are too many wrong places. We would need more investment, because when the situation is that we have mass unemployment and, at the same time, a negative interest rate situation, it is the best possible time to make the kind of investment that should, in any case, be made in the future. In this way it can be prevented
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u152	Madam President! Change must be braved to face. It is always better to guide that change than to drift and then have to make those decisions. It is somewhat surprising that the opposition is now opposed to change, such as changes in working life. We need to seek new solutions for employment and entrepreneurship in order to raise that employment rate. You have to see that possibility in that change. Now, this hard criticism, for example, against this work sample is strange, because it gives young people or, for example, immigrants who find it very difficult to work, the opportunity to give a work sample on their own initiative on what they can do and whether this job is suitable for them. Both parties, both the employee and the employer, can then find its agreement. We have to give people a chance to do this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u153	Mr President! Much has been said here about product development, innovation and other measures to improve employment. Even the government's budgetary plan states that sustainable growth will only be achieved through innovation and productivity growth in enterprises. But at the same time, the government is making huge cuts in education, and it seems that the government has forgotten that new innovations are only created by investing in education and product development. I wonder, therefore, what the government has in mind in terms of research and product development, in terms of resources, in terms of finding new innovations, in terms of product development and in terms of world markets, and thus in terms of new jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u154	I will speak again to Mrs Rinte, and then we will attack the list of speakers, because all those present have had the floor and many have even been given the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u155	Mr President! Let me just say that Mrs Rantakangas and Mrs Katainen's concern is pointless. It appears that the decision has been taken by Prossa that the negotiations will continue just as they decided on 3.3., then, at the end of May, will assess the situation after the outcome of the negotiations. But I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for his constructive contribution. In that speech you have just made, something has been said about your willingness to cooperate with the opposition in resolving these difficult issues, and I hope that we can also help the government in the way that the opposition is being helped: moving things forward from our point of view, bringing proposals and alternatives to you, and I hope that you will take them seriously and that the government as a whole will take them seriously. They have been thought in that way that they could be implemented, and I could also think of implementing this alternative budget right away in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u156	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u157	Madam President! Three hours were spent listening to the opposition's speeches on how wrong it has been to put out this fire of economic instability, and in that sense it is good that even the last speech was constructive in this speech by the opposition. It is true that the cuts proposed by the Minister for Finance are very painful for many people. However, I understand that the government is supposed to take care of the most disadvantaged Finns, because there is no going back to the old age. Now, if the government did not make these painful decisions, there would be even more drastic cuts in the future, and that is not what we want. However, I would like to believe that once the economic situation improves, then we can also share more of it. But, Mr President, the irony of the weak economy of the Finnish state is compounded by the dramatic increase in social spending. I am not talking about social assistance for Finns who are earned by paying taxes and citizenship. I am talking about the social security expenditure of asylum seekers. The cost of 10,000 asylum seekers costs the national economy 500 million a year. The central government's primary income expenditure is estimated to be 832 million next year alone. The need for additional funding for the basic income of 10000 asylum seekers, which is already available, has been estimated to be EUR 173 million next year and EUR 331 million at the end of the spending limits period in 2020. Above all, in social media the most striking thing is how we can afford to take care of the services of asylum seekers while cutting almost everywhere else. Not only is Finland applied for security but also for a standard of living, which we will certainly recognize, because there are many safe countries along the way when we reach Finland. Finnish taxpayers covering living standards, and that is not right. Finland's Peru fell that even when working, a person from Iraq or Somalia produces on average less for public finances. It is therefore misleading to talk about the added value of the economy, at least in the short or medium term. In many poor countries, integration and work motivation are not enough, because social protection already meets their expectations of living standards. The current level of social security often harms them more, as does the Finnish economy, than the incentive measure. Lower social security for those who do not have Finnish citizenship would be justified in this difficult economic situation. The primary task of the State is to take care of its own citizens. Citizenship is a legitimate reason for granting certain advantages and obligations. Lower social security does not mean that no one is left here without bread or shelter. Some argue that fundamental rights prevent this change. There is a difference of opinion. Fundamental rights include food, shelter and clothing, not the daily Helsingin Sanomat, new jeans or even your own studio. If the Constitution prevents us from taking responsibility for our country, we must change the interpretation of the Constitution or, if necessary, the Constitution in this respect. Mr President! There are far more comprehensive, sustainable and cost-effective ways to alleviate the humanitarian crisis than transferring people to the most expensive countries in the world. An additional EUR 25 million will be cut in development aid. There are many ways to justify the operation, but only if it is properly targeted. It is one thing to fatten the elites of developing countries with Finnish money than to allow NGOs to do much self-help. The additional cut must no longer apply to Finnish development organisations, as their share was already cut by 43 per cent. Finnish development cooperation creates jobs for Finns and promotes the positive image of Finland in the world. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that in Finland we have many good reasons to be grateful. Besides food and homes, we also have respect for human dignity,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u158	Madam President! This debate on the framework has been quite interesting and clearly reflective of political differences. Mr Lindtman, in that SDP group statement, said that the SDP felt that the change should always be safer than standing still. That is why we are in this economic situation, because we have always been in a safe place and there is no desire to face change. That is why we are in debt and now we have to seek solutions. The Government is seeking solutions strongly – through change. You have to be brave enough to take on change and see a chance in it. Even a winter swimr would not jump into cold water unless he knew that feeling of good will come and health will improve when you get up. Mr Andersson expressed the view of the Left Alliance that the envy of corporate dividends and salaries is rather high. If Finnish companies are unable to leverage the capital invested in them to make it profitable and to distribute dividends, the capital will not be long in Finland, they will flow abroad to better-productive targets. We have an investment deficit, we need capital to invest in Finland, create successful companies, thereby creating jobs, tax revenues, and then pay for the services and structures of this welfare state. Therefore, even on the left side of the hall, it is good to understand that a successful company that is able to distribute dividends and succeed is the best friend of a working man, a retired person and also a student. The Government has made a very important decision on the spending limits, and should congratulate the government on its ability to cooperate and on the vision that this EUR 4 billion adjustment agreement was adhered to and that we are moving forward towards economic recovery. However, the budget is still in deficit, with EUR 5.8 billion this year and EUR 3 billion still in 2020. Fortunately, however, the direction is the right one. With regard to transport projects, I would like to point out that the opposition has long spoken in favour of making infrastructural projects. We had 503 million in the framework for transport projects. However, the government is now carrying out these new infrastructure projects for 764 million, and the opposition has not heard much of it since before the elections and before the framework, these projects were called for. After all, this dates back to the last period when, as chairman of the committee, I issued a debt recovery report, which was then completed by Minister Risikko during his own term. It was a parliamentary corrective debt task force: all parties unanimously then required that measures be taken to reverse, fold, introduce new financing models to finance the transport infrastructure and create a long-term investment plan. Now the government has responded by bringing in the debt relief package, EUR 600 million, and now, yesterday, the Minister's presentation of new financing models, which would also enable this long-term infrastructure investment to be planned. These are now the measures that were jointly, unanimously, parliamentaryly stated during the last period, and now the government is also taking them forward. This is also an important contribution to employment. For example, from my own region, I mention the southern ring road in Lahti: the impact on employment already during the construction period is over 4,000 person-years and it is estimated that, when it is completed, up to 14,000 jobs can be generated through that investment. Even this spring, the money will not buy new Jopos, Finnish bikes, in the construction families, but in a year's time that well-being will begin to flow into the families. One thing that has now been strongly raised in this transport network companyisation project is the confusion between the incorporation and privatisation. The State has long-established its own activities, has been incorporated by Posti, has been incorporated by VR and many other companies 100 % owned by the State, and that is what this transport network company would be about. It would be a 100 % state-owned special purpose company that could not be sold or broken down. It has been intimidated that it will be sold to foreign investors as a means of money — that is certainly not the case, and that is certainly not the direction in which it should be taken. Finally, Mr President, I would like to stress that it is important that the difficult situation of police funding has been taken into account and that a slight improvement in this spending limits budget is also being targeted — both on the police and on the protection police.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u159	Let us take one reply to this, Mr Lindtman, and then we shall go on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u160	Madam President! I thought earlier that this conversation would have had this kind of constructive end and spirit in addition to all good, tight debut. But I would like to mention this excellent idea that change should be safer than standing still. That is the only way we can get all people involved in this change. Do you know who is behind this wisdom, Congressman Jokinen? It is a respected former Minister for Labour, MP Lauri Ihalainen, who said so. I think the government should take note of this. Now that the government has already included opposition proposals in many of the motions, as was seen in this debate on the spending limits, perhaps it would be worth sticking to this one. This would enable us to build this society together constructively so that everyone is involved. Madam President! Thank you for this opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u161	Madam President! As I read the public finance plan, I wonder why the idea of cutting people's purchasing power and increasing income disparities is based on Finland's rise. The Government has decided to cut 0.85% by equal deductions such as child allowances, minimum daily allowances, national pensions, home care allowance, maintenance allowance, labour market support and housing allowance for pensioners. These cuts are a value choice that hits the lowest incomes most. We, on the left, assume that cuts in benefits are harmful both for equality and for purchasing power. This is how the economy freezes and does not go up. We all agree in this Chamber that we need to raise the employment rate. I am particularly concerned about the increase in long-term unemployment. Unfortunately, I am not convinced by the government's choice of means to reduce unemployment. The red thread seems to be to blame the unemployed and increase the uncertainty of working life. The unemployed must commit themselves to all kinds of, even unpaid, employment measures, but the same commitment from the employer is not required. On the contrary, many government reforms aim to make it easier for the employer to get rid of the employee. In addition, the government's policy of cutting jobs keeps losing huge numbers, especially in the female-dominated public sector. How does this contribute to raising the employment rate? Madam President! The Government's objective of raising the employment rate to 72% must be respected and a good goal. Unfortunately, however, it does not completely eliminate major unemployment affecting Finland or eliminate long-term unemployment. That is why the employment opportunities offered by society are also needed. A job supported by employment, even if it is a temporary means, will help to put an end to unemployment. The job that an unemployed person can get is the means by which to maintain working capacity and skills. This may even result in the employed person finding a new occupation and seeking the corresponding training. The management of employment must form a joint project between municipalities and the state, where the state gives part of the cost of employment to municipalities and the municipalities put the rest of the money in and offer a job to the unemployed. In this way, they give him a decent opportunity to obtain work-deserved social security. During this period of high unemployment and recession, subsidised employment is the most effective means of maintaining the level of employment and skills of the unemployed. Madam President! In the Government's policies, investments in various transport projects are the most positive. Finally and finally, between the repair of highway 5, for example, we can get Mikkeli-Juva started. I am sure that this investment will cost itself many times back as the road transport situation improves. This decision is of great importance for the inhabitants of the region, tourism and other business activities. This and other infrastructure projects must therefore be commended and commended to the Government. Mr President! Finland will rise by investing in public investment, education and research. We, on the left, assume that Finland does not need more free work, but domestic demand and purchasing power and paid work. We must assume that everyone has the right to live on his salary. All forms of unpaid employment only contribute to the exclusion of people and other forms of participation, which are at their worst passed on from one generation to the next.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u162	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Finland är i en besvärlig situation. Vi har stora utmangar framför oss, och regeringen är till den delen på rätt linje när man säger att vi behöver anpa econominen för 4 billioner euro. Det anser också svenska ricksdagsguppen, och vi har också gjort vår egen alternativa budget, i vilken vi har visat hur vi skulle Priora.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u163	Madam President! The Government's report on the budgetary plan for 2017-2020 contains important objectives. The Christian Democratic Parliamentary Group also agrees that structural reforms are needed to balance public finances. It also requires strict spending and a balanced economy. At the same time, however, we should remember to invest in the future, and I stress that Finland will rise from this economic crisis through Finnish work and entrepreneurship. The government must be commended for the reforms related to entrepreneurship, such as the fact that we are finally importing this entrepreneurial deduction of personal entrepreneurs from the beginning of next year. This is what we have been rushing for in the past. Similarly, making unemployment protection more active from passive support is a positive objective and, for example, using unemployment benefit as start-up money, pay support and mobility assistance is a positive incentive and hopefully will be reflected later in these employment figures. Those very recent proposals, for example, on extending the working area and extending the obligation to travel to work, are also worth studying, but at the same time the situation of families with children should be taken into account above all. Children’s day - care periods are already quite long, and if you think that another 3 hours of commuting will come on the older workdays, the children’s days will be really long too. I believe that this impact assessment on children should also be carried out on these reforms. The Government's report states that sustainable growth can only be achieved through company innovations and productivity growth, and that is the right starting point. However, this objective is difficult to achieve if, at the same time, training and research are cut. This may be one of the biggest concerns. So, at this stage, we should focus on education and research in order to really raise Finland. Here, Mr Kalle Jokinen suspected that the opposition would not be commended for these government transport infrastructures. Here I would like to pay particular tribute to the new projects, which will indeed be launched during the spending limits period with more than EUR 700 million. In particular, the long-awaited investment in the Lahti South Passage is a truly positive reform, and for that I would like to pay particular tribute to the Government. But then what I am particularly concerned about, and this concern grew even more when we were just at that meeting of the Police Advisory Council. After all, the challenges of internal security for us are not diminishing, but are growing in this direction within a rather short period of time. For example, the protection police have twice increased the threat assessment of terrorism. Many speakers have praised the fact that the police now receive more money, receive that increase of EUR 5 million and then EUR 10 million in these frameworks. But it must be remembered that this is not a question of the police getting an increase of EUR 10 million compared to the current level, but of reducing that savings obligation. So even though this is now going to increase the level of around EUR 10 million there at 2019 level, it means a reduction of EUR 40 million that same year compared to the current situation. This will have a huge impact on the actual human resources of the police in just a few years' time. Next year, according to a study by the Ministry of the Interior, we will be able to survive, but we will be faced with really dark figures since 2018 and 2019. The decline of several hundred policemen is imminent, and that is inevitable. Similarly, I am concerned about the resources of the Border Guard. There will be a reduction of EUR 20 million by 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u164	Madam President! The legacy transferred from the last parliamentary term to this regime and to the government was not very flattering. During the last parliamentary term, public finances were in debt of about EUR 30 billion, or approximately EUR 7.5 billion each year. It generated EUR 20 billion for the state, while EUR 5 billion for municipalities due to central government cuts. Central government assets were sold by 3.4 billion, repair debt increased by one billion, and the central government treasury was also eaten somewhat. On this basis, it can be said that in a certain way during the last parliamentary term, this 30 billion was revived, but this resulted in difficulties for companies and an increase in the number of unemployed by 100,000. The promises were completely different, and this legacy The Sipilä government had to move. Now we are living in a time when this government has been in power for 11 months, a little short of that, that is, less than a quarter of its period. At this time, we have made a frontload of adjustments, painful solutions and things that none of us would have wanted to do in full. But that debt rate, which was in the previous government, simply cannot continue, and so expenditure has been adjusted and revenue has been increased to increase the central government debt this year, not by 7.5 billion as in the previous government, but by 5.4 billion. And page 41 shows that in the coming years that rate of debt will be very dwindling. It's healthy. It is in the interests of our children, in the interests of future generations, because we are also building up employment and the future. The Government's programme has as a second major point the reform of working life, the promotion of working life and entrepreneurship. A competitiveness pact has been reached, there are no mandatory laws. This is a very important issue, but it has been achieved so quickly, even though it was arduous. I hope it goes all the way. It has a positive impact on our society as a whole, which is already very clearly reflected in the general climate. Thirdly, the Government Programme includes structural reforms. The pension reform, which was strongly opposed by the Social Democrats until five years ago, was, fortunately, now approved last November, or turned its coat, and so it will come into force next year. The war that was tried for years is now moving forward. The tasks and obligations of municipalities will be dismantled, above all the conditions for entrepreneurship will be improved in many ways. In other words, structural reforms are going on differently than they were in the past. Key projects — the bioeconomy, the digital economy, transport and so on — provide a good basis for the future. It is clear that confidence will be restored thanks to a determined and strong government response. With these measures, debt is falling, entrepreneurship is getting stronger and employment will certainly improve, slowly but still. There has been a lot of talk here, Mr President, about the incorporation of these reforms. We have, as has been said here, public service companies, Posti, VR, Finavia, municipalities and cities have ports, energy companies and so on. They are incorporated and very well-functioning. It is wise to proceed on this path prudently, which is why, for example, it is worth explaining the many advantages of companying and not being afraid of. They're not privatisations. They're incorporations. As far as road networks are concerned, this can bring opportunities for funding in a completely new way, for domestic financing and the use of pension funds and many more, and that will help us to increase this momentum in this society. Mr President! The government is on the right track to implement its programme with determination and special encouragement and recognition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u165	Madam President! Finland’s economic success has been the opening up of the world. The reverse of the internationalisation strategy is that the development of our economy can never be entirely in our own hands. Finland’s external conditions have been difficult for the past few years. Investments are at a low level worldwide, which is detrimental to a producer of investment goods such as Finland. In addition, the fall in energy prices also has indirect adverse effects in addition to benefits. Russia's purchasing power, which is important to us, has deteriorated sharply due to the recession and changes in exchange rates. Mr President! Finland's economic policy is about adapting to the international economy, it is about structural policies that can improve adaptability. The Government of Prime Minister Sipilä has not succeeded in either of these objectives. It has been exactly one year since the parliamentary elections today, and the government has been sitting for about 11 months. This time has not been taken advantage of. The social partners were already prepared to take action last year. A zero line could have been agreed on in wages, which would have improved our competitiveness vis-à-vis, for example, Sweden and Germany. Furthermore, on the part of employees, the labour market model was ready, where the export sector would have defined the rate of wage growth. The government was wasting time. Attempts were made to push the employee side with forced laws. The result of the pressure was only an escalation of negotiating arrangements and a waste of time. Now that the government has acknowledged that no coercive package can even be implemented, all this waste of time and quarreling has been absolutely unnecessary. Mr President! Economic growth is the most important factor in the pursuit of fiscal balance. In the short term, it is clear that we can no longer afford to increase labour taxation. It is also quite appropriate to invest more courageously in the transport infrastructure: the loan money is cheap, and by investing in the transport network it receives a higher return than the interest rate. Economic growth can only be boosted by increasing labour and capital investment and reforming economic structures more productively. During the previous government, solutions were made to bring concrete additional contributions to growth: A pension decision was made that will affect the future dependency ratio. A decision was taken on the permanent reduction of capital costs in business taxation. We now need even more impressive structural solutions. Unfortunately, many of the decisions taken by the government are questionable in their impact. Limited cuts to teaching are a serious mistake. We are in a situation where, for the first time, the number of workers is falling due to an ageing population and, at the same time, the level of education is also falling. In addition, the government has, for example, the right to day care by restricting participation in the work of parents of young children. There will therefore be a multiple cutter for the work input. As a major structural reform, the Government's statements set out a fundamental change in the social security system. There are expectations of savings of up to EUR 3 billion in various contexts. The information on the reform does not give rise to any reason to believe it. The Government has decided to create a new level of government in the provincial administration. In contrast, a separate administration has been promised for the capital region. In other words, by increasing the layers and increasing the complexity, savings would be made. Mr President! It is widely understood in opposition parties that the government is facing major problems. We understand that the environment of the international economy is now more difficult than it was when the recession of the 1990s came up. That is why the opposition has been given full support for a centralised labour market solution called the Social Pact. Nor have we knocked out all the structural reforms proposed by the government. I hope that the government will also welcome the constructive proposals for improvement on the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u166	Mr President! The Government’s top objective is to make employment and work easier, more profitable and more encouraging. The Government Programme has stated that the tax rate will no longer increase, and the aim is to shift the tax focus from labour and enterprise taxation towards harmful taxation, for example by emphasising the taxation of tobacco products and reducing income tax. These decisions have already been taken by Parliament last year. In its programme, the Government has announced that it will ensure that Finnish company taxation continues to be supportive and internationally competitive. The wish expressed by Finnish Entrepreneurs has been that the Board of Directors will implement the decisions on entrepreneurship reduction in accordance with the Government Programme on a timely basis, and this entrepreneurship reduction will take place from the beginning of next year. Similarly, legislation will be put in place on the profit reserve, allowing the company to postpone part of its profit to be taxed later and thereby increase the net income available for financing investments. There are many other models in the study and some of these models could reduce the cost of equity in taxation. On the other hand, there may be restrictions on the reduction of interest expenses. These changes, possibly combined with a reduction in corporate tax rates, could improve the neutrality of corporate finance and the conditions under which companies operate. The government has now presented a number of measures to improve the conditions for entrepreneurship in April. Many of these instruments have been targeted at the needs of micro and small enterprises. Among other things, hiring the first employee will be facilitated. During the experiment to be carried out, employees could also be hired from the open labour market using pay support. Unemployment benefits can be used in the future for start-up grants, pay subsidies and the promotion of worker mobility. The aim is to make the transition from an entrepreneur to an employee more flexible or vice versa. It is also intended to facilitate and reduce the boundary between entrepreneurs and employees and reduce the risks associated with entrepreneurship. Mr President! The introduction of the Innovation Bank aims to bring the developers of ideas closer to their practical implementation. The use of the innovation and service voucher will also be the subject of an experiment in which SMEs can acquire external expertise and support for their own development needs. Banknotes could be used, for example, in a cooperation project with a university or research institute, in the assessment and development of business ideas or in commercialisation. In the future, a regional employment service based on job seekers and employers will also be tested in order to derogate from existing legislation on labour force, business services and unemployment security. Mr President! These measures are necessary to reverse employment trends, although the problem of unemployment as such is not entirely resolved. Mr President! Briefly: Representative Mr Räsänen has just mentioned the savings in police activities, including the closure of 16 police stations, which can only be expected to save about EUR 1 million. This is a very small sum for the entire national budget, especially as extended business trips and potentially deteriorating security would entail additional costs in the event of this change. I therefore call on the government once again to consider whether there are any potential substitutes for this planned closure of police stations and for the savings. I wish these police stations wouldn't be shut down.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u167	Madam President! There has been another interesting debate in the hall, much exacerbating in the air and a lot of perhaps deliberate misunderstanding. In my opinion, if we compare the main opposition party's line with the government's line, there are no dramatic differences in the big picture of economic policy. If you really look at the share of local government finances of over 40 billion and the share of the central government budget of over 50 billion, there may not be dramatic fluctuations. There may have been a slight signal from this hall that there would be some massive disagreements. In this regard, Mr Kankaanniemi has also raised the point that this incorporation should not frighten people. For example, there are several hundred companies operating in the local government economy that are perfectly normal operations and have improved their operations. In the municipal sector, representatives of the SDP have also been involved in the decision-making process. Of course, the background to the economic crisis is that Finland, after the recession, was experiencing a strong upturn, after the recession in the 1990s, the export industry was the top anchor that drew Finland forward, but at the same time we also made some mistakes on the political and labour market organisations side. Since the beginning of the 21st century, the tasks of municipalities and the state were significantly increased in Finland. Wage developments got too high. Productivity declined at the same time in the corporate sector. At the end of the day, these were not taken seriously enough, not in the decisions of the Parliament House, but also in the decisions of the social partners, which, during the euro period, had to ensure that wage developments did not get too hard. We are now faced with these problems, these issues, and we are now responding to this in this economic reform programme. What is worrying is that, as economic research institutes, university researchers and many others recommended from the beginning of the 21st century that Finland should make significant reforms in the labour market, in improving the business environment, and also worry that people of working age will age, at the same time the cost pressures will increase in the public sector in the future, these should have been prepared in advance. That is why it is good that pension reform, among other things, has been brought forward despite the opposition of the SDP in recent years. That is why it is good that today, with the reform of the social economy, we are moving forward, but it is incomprehensible that we had to wait 15 years for these reforms, even though everyone knew what to do. Mr President! Fortunately, however, this government base has finally brought the necessary reforms of the economy, employment and services to a good pace. The austerity measures taken by the Government in the spending limits debate are evidence of a vertebrate action to break the debt cycle. Many European countries are dangerous examples of what happens when the backbone of politicians bends in the face of unpleasant but necessary measures. The acceleration of employment and investment will be improved by creating a more stable outlook for economic development by curbing debt and also by making an incentive tax policy by shifting tax policy from the direction of work and enterprise towards consumption and harmful taxes. By increasing the competitiveness and local reconciliation of Finnish work, the social agreement strengthens the ability of SMEs, in particular, to recruit more people and to maintain existing jobs. At the same time, incentives to take up a job will be improved and standards will be created by reducing the scope for new business start-ups. In the first year of the parliamentary term, budgetary consolidation savings and structural reforms have now been well advanced. Now we need to focus more and more on employment and growth-enhancing projects. Among other things, we are facing a budget debate in the autumn, where we need to build an even wider programme to boost business investment and create new jobs. Changing business taxation to encourage investment would be an important reform. The government should therefore speed up the preparation of the investment reserve model and other similar proposals for the autumn budget debate. Mr President! Sipilä's Board of Directors according to the National Coalition Party, presentations by the Centre Party
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u168	Mr President! It was quite a fair statement from the representative who said that the keys were in his own hands. I thought that our keys were in the hands of the people, and in that respect I think that former Vice-President of Parliament, Pekka Ravi, who represents the same party as the previous speaker, has very wisely said that 'it is particularly questionable and reprehensible to me that there are different lines of conduct in the election than what is ready to be implemented after the elections'. And yes, I left a seed of doubt in whose hands the keys really are in. Yes, from the point of view of consumer protection, Finns certainly hoped that the keys to this government would also be in the hands of the people's mandate, but it has been different. Mr President! That's not the way it's been. The realities that were observed before and after the elections are like night and day. This government is particularly well known for three things. It is known for the very large, unfair cuts that only focus on certain groups of people, and it is known for the significant weakening of the unemployment security and security of workers and for this new policy word 'companying'. We have come to a situation where this government promised not to cut the underprivileged, but 4 billion in cuts were made and, in addition, an even tougher spending limits of 370 million were put on the table when it became clear that some of these objectives were being missed. And despite the researched expert knowledge and social debate and all the demonstrations and all the others, it was still decided to cut again from the underprivileged, and that is what I find very special. Another promise that the city centre and also the Finns of Peru were much cultivated was that the conditions for living are maintained throughout Finland. Now we have noticed that this government has really chosen the path of concentration. It seems ideological, it seems really rooted in this government base, and it seems that for some reason all the problems of this time are being solved only by concentrating. This is special because this incorporation has become such an incredible new mantra. Well, let's just say it's the only way to get something big done. Now forests, lands and waters were already incorporated, despite the fact that this law did not progress during the last term of government. Next, it is planned whether routes and roads can be incorporated, and it is thought that it will determine how Finnish transport policy is managed. So we move away from the group of decision-makers elected by the Finnish people, probably to some ten people's governments, all that power leads to Finnish regional policy, and we say that it is left there, and then we wonder if consumers have put enough money into using transport in the region so that the positive effects of them can then make transport policy. Each of us understands that this government sells both Lapland and Kainuu in this way and many other areas in Finland. Mr President! The Prime Minister said today that we are going to make a new policy. So now we're making a new policy. I was left with a heartburn because the reform and development of this regime has only been concentrated, cut and incorporated, and in that sense I feel that it is a turn of the coat, or that this steak of Lindström has been evaluated here today, it feels as if it is such a must-be steak. Mr President! I wouldn't be a training politician if I didn't say something about it for a few more ten seconds. I find it incomprehensible to say, after all these promises have been betrayed, that there will be no cuts in education. It was not cut out, but when the Prime Minister’s spending limits were released in 15 minutes, it became clear that they had not been there for Lindström’s independent education and had not realized that it was also education — a training cut. At the same time, a significant part of the study aid was added to the fact that such structural development money was made available for new types of investment in today's university education. So there will be cuts in education, and the worst thing is — and I must say this again, Mr President — that more cuts in education will be coming, because that is the only way the Minister of Education will be able to speak from there around the provinces, that more will be cut, for example, from the funding of university centres and, possibly, strategy funding will also reduce the spending limits of all universities, and then carrot money will be given if we want to concentrate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u169	Mr President! A few words about the group statements of the government parties: There seemed to be an incomprehensible belief at the centre that the European Union and the European Commission and the agreement on economic discipline, the EU-must, are putting Finland in good shape. In this line between the centre, the Finns and the National Coalition Party, it seems that everything is a trade, and in that respect, when you see the strong role of the assembly in spite of everything within the government, we certainly have Europe, if not the world, the most far-right centre party in Finland. True, the True Finns rightly stressed that expenditure and income should be exactly longer. But even in that group talk, the tax rate was taken as given, as if tax regulation could not also take care of the income side of the state. And then here's Lindström's steak. I understand that things are produced politically, they are marketed with such slogans. But if it is summed up by what this employment test is, then earlier, when the wage subsidy was used, it was in the state's unemployment security that the part paid by the State was saved, and when unemployment benefit is used, it is saved by means of wage support, and this source of funding in both cases is the state's money, the state's treasury — the instruments are almost the same, their name may change. But why have these instruments for active employment policy not been used before, if this is not about a bigger change, as it is not? The Coalition Party says directly what is at stake: adjustment, not resuscitation. And this internal devaluation comes precisely from the common economic policy of the European Union, from the agreement on economic discipline. It did not surprise me at all that, for example, in its employment policy, the Coalition Party places much more emphasis on sanctions than on the use of carrots. It sounded pretty wild that a promise was made that there would be a change in the resources of education in some period of time. Well, it is quite interesting to say that it has only been decided that, in addition to the training cuts made in the previous period, a further EUR 1 billion will be cut per year. With pleasure, I noticed that the Social Democrats are also talking about resuscitation. That was one of the main electoral themes of the Left Alliance in the parliamentary elections, but we were unable to defend it. And as far as the right is concerned, taking the debt is not a recovery in itself, you have to ask what the money is spent on. Mr President! Integratorship, coercion — it was involved in group speeches by both left-wing parties. Yes, this incorporation of Metsähallitus was a pretty lousy episode, actually a process. For eight years, there were totally unacceptable reasons for trying to get into a company, hiding behind a non-existent EU requirement. So did the Finns who once advertised themselves as EU-critical. And even after the Competition Commissioner had given his final opinion on the Procurement Directive, the Prime Minister went around Lapland, among other things, and said that this had to be done. There was no obligation, no obligation, in terms of incorporation, the Procurement Directive or the concession. And on this overall unemployment situation: we are unfortunately living in a time of permanent mass unemployment. Direct unemployment is 360,000 unemployed, with a large unemployment rate of 480,000 people, accompanied by worsening long-term unemployment. Long - term unemployment has tripled for a short time and the number of unemployed for more than two years has nearly quadrupled in the same period. And experience shows that once unemployment reaches those levels, it will rise violently, but it will decline extremely slowly. It is the long-term unemployed, the young and the elderly who are in the worst situation. And even if there were to be an increase in the level of employment measures, it would not remove the illusion of Lindström's steak, which really does not achieve the goal of 10,000 new jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u170	Mr President! The Finnish economy has been in a difficult situation for several years. Public debt as a proportion of GDP has grown for many years and there is no evidence of significant refraction of the debt ratio. The previous government left three hundred thousand unemployed to the government. The general government deficit exceeded 3 per cent of GDP in 2014, and the deficit decreased in 2015, but the government debt already rose to more than 60 per cent of GDP. The aim is to raise Finland's economy to a path of sustainable growth and improving employment and to secure funding for public services and social security. The debt-to-GDP ratio must be folded and the sustainability gap of EUR 10 billion covered. In addition to the 4 billion adjustment target, the Government aims to strengthen public finances through measures to improve employment, social welfare reform and reducing the costs of municipalities, regions and the public sector as a whole. The savings targets are not fully realised due to lower inflation than was estimated in the preparation of the Government Programme. As the savings targets are maintained, additional adjustment measures have been decided to cover them. New investments and measures have also been decided. It is good that measures to strengthen employment and entrepreneurship are among the most important. The Government’s goal is to create 110,000 new jobs — a major challenge. Increasing the employment rate is a prerequisite for sustainable economic growth and safeguarding public services. The Government will extend the use of unemployment benefits to finance mobility grants, start-up grants and pay subsidies. The funding of active measures will become more flexible and will better respond to the needs of the unemployed. The Government will expand the use of start-up money. For example, unemployed jobseekers who become self-employed will receive a start-up allowance for a maximum period of 12 months, which can be financed from unemployment benefit appropriations. New jobs are not created by themselves, entrepreneurship and means are needed to support it. At a time of financial uncertainty, it is particularly important to encourage new entrepreneurs. When much has been said about Lindström’s steak, it must also be admitted that there are so - called crisps if there are carrots. The low price of energy, especially oil, contributes to the growth prospects of an energy-intensive economy, such as Finland. The strongest stage in the fall in energy and raw material prices has been passed, and in the case of oil, the price will turn to moderate increases. Finland has all the prerequisites for developing our energy self-sufficiency strongly by using our abundant natural resources and investing in peat production and the bioeconomy. At the same time, the development of energy technology will bring much-needed work, entrepreneurship and security of supply. Mr President! The increase in expenditure has also been influenced by the increased number of asylum seekers and the various charges involved. Overall, the situation is challenging, but even at a difficult time we must be able to secure basic services and livelihoods for people. Despite the search for savings, care must be taken of the most vulnerable. And again, it must be said that these low incomes are always vaccinated by the various increases in the share of own resources, but then again we must say, as a positive thing, that we received increases in the guarantee pension, improvements in family and family care, and then this Yle-tax disappeared from the lowest incomes. The Group's contribution to child protection was also mentioned. I believe that support for prevention and all support for families must be given in order not to get into custody. And in these situations of custody, we have had to witness unfortunate cases in recent months. The security situation in Europe and Finland has changed significantly in the short term. People feel insecure. The funds for the police, the Border Guard and the Defence Forces must be secured. Even in these administrative sectors, operational expenditure savings have been sought through efficiency and structural changes, but safety must be maintained at an adequate level, even if it requires additional funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u171	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! After a year of silence, the policy of the government has become clear over the past few days with many exits. There seems to be nothing sacred for the Sipilä government anymore. Finland is being directed towards the almost dark when you listen to people in those turbulent and squares at various events and events. Many government policies reform people’s daily lives tremendously. Even the government itself does not in many cases have a vision of where it is taking this country. Let's talk about vatigation in public. The impact assessments of the decisions are either missing or ordered from a party whose final windfall is already known in advance. This has happened in less than a year. All the old structures, many of which are still working or which could at least be reformed, have been scrapped for some strange reason. The welfare state Finland is in the process of being dismantled in short by companies Suomeksi and thus welfare is also partly exposed to money alone. The insolent market faith of the government is a major feature of many decisions, and many speeches have also been made and discussed in this Chamber today. Everything that can be incorporated in this country is wanted to be incorporated for some strange reason. The woods have already begun. Social and health services and even the roads are next in line if there is belief in the government's policies. It would have been reasonable to apply for a mandate for such a change of direction at least, but this was not the case at the moment. We can only imagine what would have happened in the elections if the government parties had honestly announced their intentions before the elections, which are now in the process of being carried out. Maybe the election result would have been so much different. There is now a clear reason for the silence and inadequacy of the government's initial course. Instead of focusing on doing things for growth and employment, you have been busy with companies in Finland. Although the framework decisions contain a relatively comprehensive package of employment policies — I think it has been called Lindström’s steak today; I find it somewhat underestimating that the unemployed are being talked about that way — it does not build a belief in the future for the unemployed. The unemployed are offered more detailed research into paper, almost just a stick, while at the same time the construction trees for employment are almost entirely missing from this package. For example, the wage subsidy and the start-up grant have been increased to a negligible amount. They are now urgently needed, and I could argue that they are also the best way to get the long-term unemployed to work. The organisations have the capacity and the desire to employ them, but the government's actions do not allow them to do so. I also dare say that the government’s goal of 110,000 new jobs is beginning to disappear into some distant horizon. I hope that you will be able to do this and will also, during this final election season, come up with genuine deeds for it, but at the moment I see it on the distant horizon. The SDP, as a party, has had a number of proposals for improving employment, and fortunately, for example, this employment voucher in the Ringe has already been introduced. I am not going to repeat it, but what has been repeated many times in this debate today is still freely available to you, and we are happy to support you in that. Mr President! A minor speech, I admit it, but it is also painful to follow this government policy, which, as I said at the beginning, consists of these huge leaps partly into such darkness and greyness and people's despair. I am very concerned about the result of the government's enthusiasm for reform, combined with the blessed market economy, in our common welfare state. I am concerned about the long-term unemployed, to whom the government gives no prospects, no hope, just coercive measures and stick for employment. I am concerned about those who often do not make their voices heard: children, the elderly and other disadvantaged people in society, whose lives are even more complicated by government cuts. The government is also pursuing a truly unfair policy of removing disability services from the elderly. This is unacceptable for the development of society. Difficult decisions can also be made fairly if they are to be made. With this disciplined cutting policy, the government also eats up the purchasing power of low incomes and thus the conditions for economic growth. Education cuts, which have been discussed today, degrade the building blocks of growth. This merciless competition society, which is now being created, easily leaves part of the population unattended. This line of government creates more exclusion and unemployment. I think this is an unsustainable direction. There are also genuinely alternatives to these policies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u172	Mr President! The Government's report on the budgetary plan for 2017-2020 states: "The fiscal and other economic policies must strike a balance in order to support domestic demand beyond the medium term of recession, government indebtedness and to improve the conditions for economic growth and to ensure the sustainability of public finances in the long term." The objectives are clear and certainly acceptable. However, it is highly questionable whether the government will be able to meet the objectives of the policy it pursues. So let us look at the relationship between goals and means. First of all, how does the government support domestic demand beyond the recession? Government measures undermine domestic purchasing power and demand, they do not strengthen these. The numerous tightening of low- and middle-income incomes through income cuts, increases in customer charges and reduced services is a poison to demand and the economy in a low economic climate. There is now a need to strengthen purchasing power, but unfortunately the government's policy does not provide any room for this. And how does the government break public debt? The government's fiscal policy is tightening, a reduction in public debt is sought by adjusting public spending to EUR 4 billion, i.e. through savings and cuts. However, many actions, such as the cancellation of funding for the Youth Guarantee, the inadequacy of funding for employment management and the reduction of jobs as a result of a policy of cutbacks, lead to an increase in unemployment, its prolongation and also an increase in expenditure and indebtedness resulting from unemployment. The only sustainable way to reduce the debt ratio is to strengthen employment and growth. Our main problem is not public spending, but high unemployment, low investment and too small a size for the private sector. Therefore, solutions to indebtedness should be sought, first and foremost, in terms of strengthening employment, increasing investment and restructuring the business structure. So, how does the government improve the conditions for economic growth? The central problem with Finland’s tightening economic policy is that our economic structure has not been sufficiently renewed and diversified. Against this background, the government's austerity policy, especially on education, research and knowledge, is unseeable and counterproductive. Now we need the courage to reform, not dictate and cut. The government's cuts to education, education and knowledge have been widely knocked out in society. These cuts undermine our competitiveness and potential for future growth in a situation where renewal, strengthening of skills and supporting creativity are more important than in the past. And how will the government ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances? This is a broad and big question. Unfortunately, there is little discussion in Finland about long-term economic and social development. Rare are the speeches that put sustainable economic, social and environmental development at the heart of the debate. Last December, a historic climate agreement was adopted in Paris, in which 187 countries, including Finland, committed themselves to the objective of halting global warming to 1.5°C. The objective is ambitious and the economic impact of the climate agreement is significant. Therefore, Finland should be among the pioneers in the transition. In the future, countries and actors will be able to reform their activities in an environmentally sustainable way. The transition to a low carbon economy opens up new growth opportunities and improves the competitive position of industry in Europe and Finland. A growing global demand and market for clean environmental and energy technology products is emerging. However, a large picture of the restructuring of the economy and society in terms of climate, the environment and the use of natural resources is lacking in government policy, although I believe that policy is over-emphasis. Mr President! The government is making a policy that is not in line with the objectives it has set. It does not provide the means to support domestic purchasing power and demand, to break debt, to improve the conditions for growth or to increase the employment rate. The long-term picture of strengthening economic and social sustainability is too narrow. The SDP has provided a number of means to meet these objectives. I very much hope that the government will have the will and the humility to seize them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u173	Madam Speaker! Without saying anything, but thoughtfully today we have heard falsely extinguished rhetoric. The opposition has been led to believe that the crisis is and must be reacted to, but the means are totally wrong. Is the opposition's criticism justified? This is a little two-edged sword. Indeed, when it is admitted that the former means have been exhausted, it is necessary to have the courage to reform and reform — even with the result that it is sorely touching. There have been criticisms of the increase in debt. More or less, all governments have been guilty of this. Of course, there can be an auction, who, during whose Prime Minister's term, whose Minister for Finance, the debt has increased most. The debt goes on, even though this government is trying to control it. It would be appreciated and respected if this future indebtedness were not a so-called eating debt, but debt were taken into account as such for the necessary investments, for example in various social infrastructures. It has also been criticised that the options chosen could have been different. Yes and no. We're playing a zero-sum game here. The opposition has much criticised the increase in fuel tax. It is not pleasant — I myself know that I live in a sparsely populated area when a lot of cars have to be used there, that it is not pleasant even during these reduced fuel prices. But if the alternative had been an increase in VAT, which would apply to a much wider population, for example, in higher food prices, then surely, had this been the case, the opposition would have snowed into the house. Madam President! Nevertheless, I see signs of hope in this area of spending limits. On the one hand, this signals the decision-making capacity of the government and the strong will to create stability in society in times of scarcity. I would like to pick out a modest sentence here for the Foreign Affairs Administration: between 17 and 19, Finland is the Presidency of the Arctic Council. This is just one sentence there. It is worth using this opportunity in a truly active and effective way. From the Arctic, we have a great potential for growth, if we do not say 'absolutely'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u174	Mr President! As has been said many times today, our country is in a very weak economic climate. The debt can no longer be taken because of its amount and its preciousness. As a result of debt, compulsory reforms are now being carried out, during this term of government. In the midst of a dark situation, it is therefore important that the sitting government is capable of decision-making and has the will to stick to its objective. Many of the reforms and savings are particularly painful because public finances have not been adequately adapted in previous government terms. However, adjustments must be made now, or our country will face even greater economic problems. If we wait any longer, the savings will be even more painful and the debt will be higher than the previous one. In this case, debt would be particularly affected by future generations. The Finns and the government are making every effort to avoid this. A further increase in the cost of immigration will make it more difficult to balance the economy. Fortunately, under the leadership of Foreign Minister Soin, we have taken over uncontrolled immigration, especially at the eastern border, which was becoming a new channel for illegal human transport. Economic well-being is strongly linked to people's faith in their own future and the ability to work for common goals. The progress of the social pact is therefore very important in restoring mutual trust at home. The reforms will restore confidence in the Finnish economy also abroad. Savings and reforms will also be made because we will also be able to support the low incomes in the future. In the case of pensions, the problem for a long time has been the low level of national pension and guarantee pension. The Finns have long been trying to correct the situation, and the government has decided to increase the guarantee pension. The basic income experiment will also be carried out. Veterans, too, have not been forgotten in the economic framework. The Veteran supplement will be increased by EUR 2.5 million. The disadvantage rate of the war-qualified will be reduced from 15% to 10%, which will guarantee almost all the war-qualified community-based services. I do believe that veterans and war ovals should have been helped and rehabilitated more forcefully in the past. The aim is to promote employment through a comprehensive package of employment and entrepreneurship. This is a key and important reform, because reducing unemployment is the most important thing for the well-being of people and the economy of the country. In addition, the aim is to increase the profitability of work and to provide the unemployed with more tools for self-seeking work. This will enable everyone to apply more actively for a job. I believe this is the will of all parties. There has also been, unfortunately, savings on students and education. However, these savings should be understood in relation to the overall contribution of education and training, which is still very significant. Together with savings, our education system will also be reformed on a more sustainable basis so that it can continue to be a system with strong skills. When talking about economic frameworks, the Government's investments in transport projects must also be taken into account. This, if anything, is a long-term economic policy that will generate growth. I would like to mention in particular the issue of my own province, namely the launch of the planning of this hour's train. The substantial investment in this, EUR 40 million, will certainly pay for itself in the future. Mr President! An important goal in reforms and savings is to put our country's economy on a more stable footing. This will enable us to continue to care for the disadvantaged in our society, to support our excellent education system and to maintain the structures of the welfare society. Government savings have been criticised as reactionary and irresponsible. It would, however, be irresponsible and reactionary to further debt and not to carry out the necessary reforms. The ability of the government to make decisions is important. The line is tough and the cuts are painful, but the goal is clear: Finland's downward spiral towards economic distress must be prevented. It is a challenge to strike a fair balance in the way in which citizens are required to participate in these efforts. We can no longer afford to tighten the resources of low incomes. But it is not just a complaint that is worth it, Mr opposition, but that is what is needed. And we need posture, we need cooperation. That's why we need to change the structures, starting with them. A little cosmetic movement doesn't lead anywhere. The opposition has backed up the growth in domestic demand that it would be one of the keys to this discipline. It is one task, and employment and finding work for all Finns who are able to work is the absolute and most important thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u175	Mr President! The economy creates a framework for policy, but it is good to remember that the economy is also a policy. When it comes to the economy, when it comes to evaluating the future, and when it comes to laying down guidelines, it is unfair to say that we are forced to do so by facts. Each economic expert evaluates the future with emphasis on different issues. Every party and politician draws their own conclusions from the experts' assessments and, consequently, policies, that is, political choices based on their own values. This is a fact that we cannot escape, whether we are representatives of the opposition or of the government. What bothers me is that many representatives of the government parties are, as it were, outsourcing their own dignity, saying that these decisions must now only be taken, as we have just heard — unfortunately, Mr Elomaa has already left the Chamber. If you share the values on which the guidelines are based, why can't you say fairly that these are the decisions that I support and want to take? Or if you feel that the policies we have in our hands today are contrary to our own values, you would dare to say out loud that these are not what I support. It's not either of these things to hide behind. There is not one truth in achieving goals either. A tight economic line is often justified by not leaving debt to future generations but, at the same time, cutting down on their future, education, knowledge of the future and the well-being of the people as a whole. The debt will be removed from public finances, but at the same time a national knowledge and well-being deficit will be created, the costs of which will be paid with interest in the future. In order to be able to compete in global competition for the future, it would even require an increase in the level of education and training, which could not be achieved with such extensive cuts. Increasing the employment rate requires that no one is left behind and that everyone's skills can be used in the best possible way. Extending working careers requires investment in people’s well-being and working lives. The objectives will not be achieved by a mechanical extension of working time. These things have now been forgotten. Mr President! What worries us most, however, is the impact of cutting social and health services and benefits and raising customer charges on people's everyday lives and later on our future. These decisions are now increasing inequalities and making it more difficult for the most vulnerable to live. People are driven only to use new benefits and become more dependent on income support. During the past year, reimbursements for travel expenses for health insurance, medical reimbursements, medical and dental compensation and expenses for discretionary rehabilitation have been cut. There are now no increases in index-linked benefits, and they will be cut by an additional 0.85%. For example, an increase in the guarantee pension does not make it easier for older people to live, as they are already affected by so many other savings and increases in contributions. With an investment of EUR 10 million, the increase is approximately EUR 8 per month per pensioner. When next year a guarantee pension is cut and index increases are not made in the coming years, this means that, despite an increase of around EUR 20 for this year and a future increase of EUR 8 in 2019, the guarantee pension will be almost EUR 10 lower than it would have been without these increases, but in such a way that the indices would not have been frozen. I do not know who we deceive with such decisions, ourselves or our citizens. For example, services for the elderly are not considered as a whole, but are welcomed by an increase of around EUR 5 million in home care, while savings of EUR 70 million are made for improved service housing and old-age homes for the elderly. The Government should also try to force municipalities to increase their social welfare and health care charges. Some municipalities have not wanted to make savings in local government finances in the way prescribed by the Government, i.e. by visiting the pocketbook of people with low or middle incomes. It is the value choice of municipal decision-makers. We are not going to respect this choice of values now, but we are going to push our own values forward bull-headedly. Mr President, it is totally unreasonable that the decision-making powers of the municipalities should now be addressed and that minimum limits be laid down for customer charges. This is a policy of "you, or you cry and you do" like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u176	Mr President! The main economic problem at present is high unemployment, especially the continuing increase in long-term unemployment. In addition to the quantitative increase in unemployment, periods of unemployment have also increased. The government's objectives to create 110,000 new jobs and raise the employment rate to 72% cannot be achieved unless the increase in prolonged unemployment is stopped. Unfortunately, the means put forward by Minister Lindström in the employment package do not help in this respect, although there were good proposals. Instead of responding to slow growth and increased unemployment through a stimulating employment policy, the government has cut labour market spending. In particular, this has been reflected in the subsidised employment. These forms of assistance, particularly those close to the open labour market, to help the unemployed, have been replaced by rehabilitation work and work trials, the original aim of which is to help the most vulnerable people in the labour market. People are currently also being directed towards rehabilitative work activities, for example in the intermediate labour market or even in the open labour market. The low level of pay subsidies has cut off sensible labour market paths for the unemployed and prolonged unemployment. This can also have a negative impact on the supply of work in the long term. The government should focus more deeply on the management of long-term unemployment and ensure the necessary funding in the autumn budget debate. Third sector organisations should also be taken into account in this preparatory work. There would be meaningful work to be done in these organisations, but the low level of employment appropriations has led to a significant reduction in the grant of wage subsidies to organisations. The end of this wage subsidy will reduce the employment potential of the long-term unemployed and, at the same time, reduce the support and services provided by non-governmental organisations. When the budget is exhausted, the support and activities provided by organisations such as families with children, pensioners and the unemployed are threatened with an end and the various resident houses and other meeting places are closed. I wonder why, in this situation of unemployment, the government is not interested in working with organisations any more, as they could create meaningful working life paths for up to tens of thousands of people who are able to work part-time. There is also a huge shortage of resources in the TE Offices to prevent the discovery of meaningful working life paths. People who need personal service have to wait for it for months. There are thousands of young people in this line at the moment. Mr President! The Government only assesses short-term savings, but no ex-ante assessment and long-term assessment of the welfare impact of decisions has been carried out. Dealing with problems in time with well-functioning services is the best way to save overall costs. The erosion of an equal service system for all will increase exclusion, and this will increase costs. According to OECD calculations, Finland's economic growth lost a total of 9% between 1990 and 2010 as a result of the increase in inequality. Now government action is accelerating the growth of poverty and inequality. The government will increase poverty and inequality without thinking about the long-term consequences. Reductions in the benefits of low-income earners will not result in long-term overall savings, rather vice versa. In the short term, drastic savings also cut domestic purchasing power and domestic consumption. For example, the Government has not anticipated or assessed at all the health, well-being and income-sharing effects of its decisions. This has also failed to assess whether the savings that have now been made may cause increased costs in the future. This is likely to happen. This happened at least in the treatment of the recession of the 1990s. The accumulation of synergies between cuts for the same people and population groups is also a matter of real concern, as this will drive people into long-term poverty and a permanent income support customer base.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u177	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The market has gained the upper hand, and the government is making an historically strong policy of concentration and privatisation. Training places will be centralised, train shifts will be stopped, mail and taxis will soon no longer run, district courts will be closed, police stations will be closed and the roads and railways will soon be sold to the highest bidder — the state's forests have already gone. Next, we will have social and health care, and then we will certainly have groundwater and breathing air.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u180	Madam President! I listened to that speech, and it inevitably came to mind — somewhat the same way as listening to this other debate on the framework today — and I have a pretty clear view of it and believe that many of today's speeches will appear in a rather special light in a few years' time, in a special light because inevitably the measures that the government has taken and will continue to take in the coming months will raise the Finnish economy to a clear rise, and all the doubts that have been raised today, so... Well, we can go back to them in the years to come. Mr President! After the dark phases of the economy, it is worth noting that a certain turnaround for the better is already in sight. Personally, I very much believe that the government's multi-pronged measures will lead to an increase in employment. The employment rate target of 72% is very high, but I think it is entirely realistic. In this House, too, we must all just do everything possible to achieve this objective. Some speakers have today asked why the government is only now publishing employment measures. I personally understand in that way that the authors of these questions do not see this government package as a whole, but they do not also see the factors behind the weak development of the Finnish economy. We need solutions to the structural problems in this country too, not only by supporting domestic demand. In my opinion, the government's line to proceed on three roads, three major roads, is very wise: In other words, we have to make and, unfortunately, we have to make savings, a price tag of EUR 4 billion — bad but necessary. The second way is to make major structural changes, of which of course the most well-known are this reform of social welfare and health care and reform of regional administration. These two are both moving forward at the moment. On the other hand, structural reforms in working life are also needed and progress is also being made. But from an employment point of view, the big picture is then, of course, this third line of government, i.e. the search for elements of growth, the most important of which, of course, is the social pact. Above all, it contributes to the competitiveness of exports, and it is indeed desirable that the guidelines of the social pact also enter into collective agreements. Another element of growth is the dismantling of standards. They contribute to the functioning of society and to the conditions for entrepreneurship. The third element of growth is the need for measures to facilitate employment and entrepreneurship. That is what the government announced last week and, as the Prime Minister has also said today, there is still more to come. In other words, the Employment and Entrepreneurship Package seeks, among other things, incentive traps out, incentive traps are dismantled, job acceptance is facilitated, unemployment benefits can be used to set up a business, tax means used, etcetera and so on. Fourth element of growth: large-scale government infra-investment. They're really tough. More than EUR 1 billion will be spent on repairing the fairway, and eight large new investments were allocated to spending limits decisions. The north of these new investments is facilitated by the Five Road and the repair of the Four Roads between Oulu and Kemi. In addition, more than one billion will be allocated to key projects, a separate innovation package and so on. I find it absolutely inevitable that these three big lines will bring Finland's economy up. For farmers: Farmers and agriculture certainly also expected that the spending limits package would bring some significant relief to the really deep plight of agriculture. In the spending limits package, there were no significant solutions to this, with a little more support. But what is essential is that we find measures for agriculture that can be used as quickly as possible. And that is why it is to be expected that these measures will now come in the next supplementary budget of the State. Local government finances are also part of the public sector. Government policy for the last season is here
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u181	Mr President! There has been a multi-generation and wide-ranging debate here today on an important issue, the framework for central government finances and public finances as a whole. Before today’s debates, especially — and here too — there was a very wide-ranging debate about whether or not we have now cut more of all the interests of the poorest. And I was at least disturbed by the arguments that yes, now that we are doing this cut of less than one percentage point in euro for certain benefits, that is a new cut. However, this is not the case. If we look at the situation in which the benefits had been previously decided to freeze and the inflation would have run at the same level as one year ago, just as much at the time, in the envisaged situation, the recipient of the benefit would have lost the purchasing power that that benefit has, as now, when the actual inflation is virtually zero — even slightly negative — and then the benefit will be cut accordingly. In other words, even when the parties that are highly valued here before the spending limits were wondering that this need to make further savings when index adjustments have been reduced as if the reset of inflation were a philosophical question, it is a real question: if we had other gross domestic product in nominal terms under positive inflation conditions and certain current transfers were standardised in euro, i.e. frozen, then the state's financial position would improve for these transfers. On the other hand, if inflation is zero, i.e. the gross domestic product from which this country finances its public activities, does not increase nominally the amount anticipated, then it is only so that, in the long run, clearly indebtedness is higher, i.e. if inflation has been zero and the indices are on ice, than if inflation had been 1% and the indices were frozen, when the real need for further cuts was real. On the other hand, the purchasing power cut, which was decided each year ago, took place in these benefits as the same amount of purchasing power cut as originally envisaged. Another quite legitimate question — here today and here, of course, throughout the entire term of government — is whether or not we are cutting a shocking amount of education. Well, today, I think the positive thing has been that we have been able to say together that in this spending limits decision no new decisions on further cuts in education will be made, which is an important choice, while, at the same time, some EUR 400 million in additional adjustment decisions were made. Of course, training cuts are a difficult issue. We must be able to invest in knowledge even in these difficult years, but a sense of proportion here too would be appropriate. If we now have a total investment in higher education and research at the beginning of the Government's term of office of around 3.2 billion euros per year and at the end of the Government's term of office of approximately 3.1 billion euros per year, then we are talking about such a reduction of 2 to 3 per cent to this overall level. It is a difficult course, but I guess no one can claim that it is a disaster from such a historical point of view. Well, there has been a lot of talk here since the work package and about how to get more work to Finland, up the employment rate. It is perhaps important to note that unemployment in itself is a strong stream: we had about 700,000 new periods of unemployment last year, of which, fortunately, 96% ended in the last year. And the very central question is that, fortunately, we had fewer of those unemployment cases than the previous year, and for less than three months there were fewer people who had not found a new job than there had been in the previous year. But the problem has been that these longer periods have become longer and longer. If, in one day, we can shorten the period of unemployment, it would reduce by 2,700 persons the number of unemployed and save 20 million on its own, even a day. And that is why all the actions that we lay down the threshold make it easier for us to leave for pay support, start-up money, and we always make it worthwhile for a person to choose a job, if it is offered to him, to avoid falling into the pits of long-term unemployment from which it is hard to get up. From that point of view, I would like to point out one more thing, namely that in my opinion, the particularly important decisions were the infra-inputs made to the Joker Pikaratikka in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and also the fast-track in Tampere. These both create sustainable mobility and open bottlenecks in housing production, which is in fact one of our worst challenges that we have not been able to solve properly in this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u182	Mr President! When we are dealing with a framework for the years 2017 to 2020, it is worth noting that what we are doing and how we are doing affects the future. Likewise, of course, it should be remembered that what we have done in the past affects today and also the future. It has been good to note that we are very much in agreement with the basic objectives — employment, the need for economic growth, the recovery and emergence of new industries, the growth of exports. They all contribute to creating more jobs for us. Finland is a highly export-dependent country, and that is why we must act in such a way that our exports turn to growth again. Well, there has been a debate today about how to get the economy to grow. It has been a little confusing to follow the opposition's statements on how this growth would start or accelerate. The SDP has presented its already famous alternative budget or perspectives for it. The alternative budget was made in early autumn, and I have tried to study it thoroughly. It must be noted, however, that it was done in the context of the previous government's closure a few months earlier, and the former government's Finance Minister's party was the SDP. During that time, 100,000 new unemployed people became unemployed. I do not want to blame you, but in this few weeks the lights have turned on and some completely new measure has been invented that was not taken since the government was in place — yes, the situation is a little bit so that you should believe what you are talking about. What has also been said by representatives of the opposition is very important, that we must have a spirit of cohesion and a united spirit to achieve these economic growth goals. But economic growth is not born by rhetoric, but by concrete action, and we need everyone's input. What is interesting is what we are now talking about, as Mrs Korhonen has just said, then follow up later. In the autumn of 2014, Antti Rinne said: "The leadership of this country – all of us – must create faith in the future around us. I understand that the opposition will come to say in its own speeches that it may disagree with the government on some points. It's okay. Instead, it is not just to be anointing and painting dark pictures of our problems. I hope that instead of talking about problems, we will focus on solving them." I couldn't agree more. That is what we need to do in order to bring about economic recovery together, through joint efforts. It is very damaging if some of us, in a way, remain in the audience to see what happens. We can all — not just in Parliament, but in the places and situations where we operate — help the economy turn to growth. It is also a matter of many small factors, but above all it depends on whether we have confidence that it is worthwhile to try, work and work together in Finland. This is the kind of work that would be needed. We are going to waste a good powder when we argue about whether or not the wrong one has been extinguished. Mr President! In my opinion, the government has done the right thing in preparing matters when it has taken on various issues in the public debate at a time when they are not yet ready for proposals, so that they become as diverse a perspective as possible and that good and sustainable action can be put to the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u183	Mr President! The Government proposes additional cuts of 25 million in development cooperation compared to the previous framework. The new cuts will therefore come on top of the previously decided 43% cuts in development cooperation. The additional cuts will be implemented from 2018 onwards and will amount to EUR 75 million in cumulative terms during the Government term. The decision to cut off the poorest is short-sighted, especially as the world is now experiencing unprecedented refugee and environmental crises. Further savings are a small drop in central government finances, but they are already punishing almost half-cut development cooperation. As a result of the additional cut, development aid appropriations are on average remaining at 0.39% of gross national income during this spending limits period. Finland is already a long way from the Nordic reference group and the declaration of the 0.7% target. It is corny that the development policy report states that the 0.7% target is adhered to and, on the other hand, that there is a huge cut. The question arises as to how the important and good objectives of the Development Policy Report as such will be implemented if development cooperation continues to be cut. Last autumn's historic major cuts were carried out in a few months' transition period at one time and in full. The largest cuts were made from UN organisations and civil society development cooperation. A large increase was directed to support the private sector and Finnfund's funding company was increased very much. Finnfund does important work, but it can never fully replace the work of organisations and bilateral development cooperation. In a new, changed situation, it is extremely important to monitor and ensure that the projects and the money used as business cooperation comply with the priorities of Finland's development policy, the principle of human rights and transparency and transparency in the use of money. I hope that the additional cuts decided on in the spending limits debate will no longer be targeted at development cooperation, at least by organisations. Mr President! I would also like to highlight the Tekes cuts that have already been decided upon and whose effects are beginning to show. It has been decided to cut some 30% of Tekes' funding, and I am very concerned about the impact of these cuts on companies and universities and thus on Finland's competitiveness and economy. One Tekes euro generates many private euros for research and product development, so the actual impact of cuts is even greater. New innovations will not be created, new export products will not be developed, new jobs will not be created. As a result of the Tekes cuts, as many as thousands of R & D personnel are placed in a kilometre factory, and this is unsustainable in a knowledge-based economy. It is now becoming clear that in universities, the Tekes cuts cause enormous damage. For example, nearly 10 per cent of the income of the University of Oulu, a technology-oriented university, is made up of Tekes projects. So the Tekes surgeries are also directly university surgeries. I would ask the government parties again to consider whether it makes sense to cut off Tekes from our national economy. The fear is that the cuts in the university and the research ecosystem will significantly hamper sprouting growth in, for example, the Oulu region, where the ict area of the economy is largely based on high education and research. Finally, one has to wonder about the desire to join the government. The Board of Directors companies forest business, social and health care and transport routes. The incorporation of public property is a step further away from democratic governance and transparency. Once incorporated it is also easier to privatise. Companying also complicates and fragments public services and public ownership and their management. It is also rather sad and naïve if the government really thinks that the problems of public finances will be solved by the incorporation of everything possible. The fact is, however, that employment is the main key to the balance of public finances and that employment is not solved by incorporation. The incorporation of social and health services may even lead to an increase in costs and a threat to the balance of public finances. Social welfare reform is needed, but companying takes us further away from the original objective of increasing integration and strengthening basic health care and thus achieving cost-effectiveness. It is sad that ideological enthusiasm for incorporation is disguised in the robe of the EU. The fact is, however, that the EU does not force Finland to join Metsähallitus or social and health services or transport routes. Finally, I would like to thank the government. I would like to thank you for the decision taken a couple of weeks ago to finance the improvement of the Oulu-Kemi gap on Highway 4. This has been expected for years in the Oulu region. The project is important for the smooth and safe transport of urban areas and for business transport. So thank you for this on behalf of the entire Oulu region.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u184	Madam President! Public finances, i.e. the finances of municipalities and the state, safeguard important things for us. The public sector is traditionally strong in accordance with the Nordic welfare model and has achieved good results. I am proud of that, I am proud of Finnish education, health care, social security. These strengthen the rule of law and also contribute to the attractiveness of innovation and business. We need growth in our economy to finance our good, high-quality services. The budgetary position needs to be strengthened. At present, the economy is not doing very well, the euro area is still in recession. Even living in debt indefinitely is not good financial management. It has also been consulted by investors. The conditions in the export sectors still need to be strengthened and, although investment has been reversed at the moment, there should be no slackening. According to the report, overall productivity has developed modestly, and our financial position will only improve with economic growth, otherwise we will have a painful path of savings ahead of us. Our group speech highlighted the need to improve the position of entrepreneurs as a catalyst for the economy. Next year, therefore, it will be possible for small businesses to switch to a payment-based VAT account. The right to reduce losses of limited companies will be extended and generational exchanges facilitated. I hope that this will increase entrepreneurship, especially in the bioeconomy, which is the government's top project. The news just told me how a 9th grade kid runs his own business, sells firewood. I believe Finland is capable of smart solutions. With regard to the government's key projects, I would also like to highlight the potential of the blue bioeconomy to create domestic jobs and improve the food trade balance in our country. Bioeconomy is also a very difficult situation for our agriculture. In this geopolitical situation, too, it is a challenging task for the government to ensure the continuity of our food production. It would be very dangerous to let our pure production escape beyond the borders of the country. The implementation of the National Forest Strategy 2025 will also be launched during the spending limits period. As a country in the northern coniferous forest zone, Finland has a lot of expertise and opportunities to use forests in a diverse and sustainable way. National forestry policy must not be allowed to be decided in Brussels. Local government finances are in a challenging situation. There are growing pressures on operating expenditure. There are pressure on investment, but investment is also necessary to safeguard services. But these investments are also made with debt. If the interest rate in the euro area rises by some 1%, it will mean an increase in millions of debt management costs. Are we trapped in debt when we are involved in the EU's Stability and Growth Pact and, at the same time, borrowing does not facilitate our economy through investment? But in the public sector, municipalities know and have been able to make decisions and adjust their activities. The municipalities of Finland are competent. It also produces important services and, of course, implements these painful cuts. In that respect, I wish for strength and strength for the municipal court. Now for internal security. Mr Räsänen has already mentioned that there is cause for concern. The situation is now that the government has increased the budget for the police, the Border Guard and the Protection Police, but it does not remove the fact that there have been a very large number of governments — I have to say quite honestly — there has been a strange swingboard that the frameworks have been falling. Then the additional budget has helped the situation, but it has not been achieved at a permanent level by these many governments' budgets. It is very important that this issue is still being discussed here in the Chamber, and the Internal Security Report will soon be coming before this House as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u185	Mr President! In his opening speech, Mr Stubb, the Minister of Finance, stated that investments in internal security are being made not only through the prison network but also through an increase in the budget of the protection police and the police. Mr Mattila also referred to this debate on internal security, and I think that there is a slight misconception that the government is now making an increase in the budget of the police. There is no increase in the level compared to the current level, but it is a reduction in the savings obligation under the spending limits of EUR 10 million and a further reduction of EUR 40 million in the police budget in 2019 after this decision. Similarly, there will be a cut of EUR 20 million to the Border Guard. In practice, this means a huge reduction in the number of people working per year, i.e. a reduction in the number of hundreds of policemen. I think that this should be taken seriously when the committee deals with this budgetary plan, as well as when this report on internal security comes before Parliament. Just over a year before the elections, the parliamentary parties unanimously decided in the parliamentary working group on internal security and justice that that level of internal security and justice must be maintained, which means that significant increases in appropriations are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u186	Mr President! In the spending limits debate, the Government decided to provide funding for a number of transport and infrastructure projects of national importance, among others. Many of these projects significantly improve the competitive conditions of the Finnish export industry. For example, the southern Lahti bypass and the development of rail connections will speed up the transport of goods and people. Local residents waited almost half a century to build the Lahti bypass, and now it finally came to their delight. However, the mobility of residents in the Tampere region could have been cost-effectively managed by domestic electric buses. After all, it was now decided to provide EUR 71 million of state funding for the Tampere tram. The decisions taken in the spending limits dispute were not in all respects easy. In addition to the many cuts in benefits for low incomes, the shadow of the spending limits line must be mentioned as an increase in the fuel tax, replacing the budget gap left by the EU ban on sweets. Parliament does not always have a great deal of room for manoeuvre, as our national legislation is strongly affected by EU legislation and the different standards that emerge from it. In the future, however, there is no longer any room to increase the taxes and other costs of mobility in a country such as Finland, which is sparsely populated and with long distances. Mr President! This month, significant progress has been made in the reform of the social security system. The expansion of freedom of choice in the context of reforms is a step towards a more effective and efficient organisation of social and health care. After all, public, private and occupational health care services have now largely overlapd. The expansion of freedom of choice must, of course, ensure that genuine competition between service providers is created and that even small companies are able to participate in the market. In accordance with the Government's policy, freedom of choice legislation will be created for social services. This enables the user, as a rule, to choose the service provider itself between the public, private and third sectors. Freedom of choice contributes significantly to competitiveness in the production of social services. In my home town, Ylöjärvi has had good experiences with the introduction of a service voucher, among other things. The user of the special care service voucher has been allowed to choose between five private service providers in such a way that the service can be provided at the lowest price from the private offices defined by the city at the same price as the corresponding service could be obtained from Pirkanmaa Hospital District. The overpriced price has been paid by the patient himself. According to what I hear, the customers have been satisfied with this arrangement and the waiting lists have also been shortened. Mr President! The Regional Law and the Law on Social Security will include provisions that will ensure that more private and third sector production is available alongside public production. They enable real conditions for a genuine multi-producer model and freedom of choice around Finland. The basis for the activities of several producers is the rules on competition neutrality, which ensure a level playing field between public and private activities in market-based activities. As uniform a set of principles as possible for private and public welfare production. The regions also have an obligation to compare the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and quality of their own production with that of the private and third sectors and other regions. At the same time, regions are encouraged to diversify their social services production. It is also up to the province to ensure that the private and third sectors are responsible for a minimum amount of social services. These obligations contribute to the desired savings and efficiency of social and health care services. Mr President! As we know, these savings are very important for the sustainability of our public finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u187	Mr President! Yes, one of the red threads of government policy seems to be this broad enthusiasm to energise public services and public activities beyond the reach of democracy and the present open system. The Government has decided in this Parliament, by means of government parties, that Metsähallitus has been incorporated, i.e. a large part of Finland's forests has been transferred to the company. Now the government has stated that social and health care services are to be produced in companies in the future, with the exception of perhaps the highest level of specialised medical care — university-level medical care — that is to say, all service production is to be transferred to companies, public companies and then to private companies and companies. At the same time, the Government has also stated that it wants an increasing proportion of these public services to be produced by private means. Now we have heard that the government wants to re-incorporate Finland's fairways, that is to say transfer a large part of its national property to the company, which means, for example, that in the future, in this Parliament, we would no longer discuss the development of Finland's routes, investments in Finland's routes, but these decisions would then be taken in the companies. This incorporation is by no means synonymous with privatisation, but there is a clear link between these matters. For example, Prime Minister Sipilä has flashed that the government wants to finance these key projects by selling common property, public ownership of the companies he owns, and yes, at least myself, I also see a great risk that when we have Finnish forests in the future, Finland's fairways as well as this public social and health service in the companies, this will lead to privatisation, i.e. these will be transferred to private pockets.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u188	Mr President! The sustainability gap means that there is more expenditure than income. The State receives revenue through taxes, which is the best way to reduce income differentials. Taxes can be divided into three parts on the basis of the tax base: taxes on labour, taxes on consumption and taxes on capital. According to Statistics Finland's researcher Olli Savela, the share of taxes on consumption and labour in Finland of all taxes and compulsory payments is higher than the average in the EU countries. Taxes on employment in Finland amount to 53.2 per cent, on average 51% in the EU countries. The share of consumption taxes in Finland is 32.4 per cent, while in EU countries 28.5%. By contrast, the share of taxes on capital is considerably lighter in Finland, i.e. 14.3 per cent, while the EU average is 20.8 per cent. Finland's taxation is therefore 6.5 percentage points lower than the EU average. The difference in euros is EUR 5.5 billion. Thus, compared to the EU average capital tax burden, Finland could afford to tax capital and its profits by EUR 5.5 billion more annually. This amount could already facilitate the taxation of small and medium-income earners, reduce excessive consumption taxation and leave a few billion euros to cover the sustainability gap and other tax deficits. Juha Sipilä's bourgeois government has chosen the wrong path, it wants to make the lives of low-income students, pensioners, families with children, unemployed, disabled and sick even worse. The right-wing government is, according to its name, a genuine right-wing government that upholds the interests of the owners of capital, even though in its rhetoric it begs them to take part in the projects. A real and very urgent restructuring is the restructuring of the tax structure. Capital is a free passenger of taxation in Finland and the problem will not go away until we come closer to the EU average in this respect, i.e. only the average, does not have to go to the top. The overall tax rate does not even have to rise. Facilitating consumption and labour taxes would free up purchasing power and the reform would shift the tax burden to where there is payment power.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u189	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-19-ps-39.u190	Mr President! In this government's proposal for a customs law and some related laws, many technical reforms have been carried out and, at the same time, the structure of this law has been reformed. The aim of the proposal is to harmonise the rules on customs taxation and procedure. The proposed changes to the tax laws are largely a consequence of the changes introduced by the Customs Code, but some of these regulations still have a link to the Preparatory Project, which, together with the reform of the tax procedure, will allow the Tax Administration to save around 100 man-years of work by 2021. This reform harmonises information systems, and more than 100 different and in some cases even incompatible systems are to be transferred to a single information system. As far as I know, the project is to be carried out at four different stages, the first of which does not require any legislative changes. The next three phases will take place during 2017 and 2018, and some tax law reforms will also be implemented at the same time. In the long term, this will save common tax resources in line with the main objectives of the Government’s Digital Agenda. Mr President, this is probably an acceptable objective for the whole of Parliament.
