ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u2	Congressman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u3	Mr President! I have been concerned about the equal treatment of pensioners' taxes vis-à-vis employees throughout the last year, and we have also insisted that tax reductions should target pensioners as much as they do employees. That is why the news that the government has changed its line in this new budget was, of course, very happy news. But, President-in-Office, it was, of course, somewhat surprising that, when we were able to familiarise ourselves recently with the calculations made by Parliament's information service, they showed that the purchasing power of pensioners with low and medium incomes, what is left in the wallet, would be reduced next year. You don't get more in your hand. You get less in your hand. This raises the question and this is a somewhat confusing situation: what is happening at the moment with regard to taxation in general? Now, Minister Orpo, to begin with, I would like to ask you: is it really?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u4	Mr President! First of all, I am proud of the solution that could be made, i.e. the reduction in the tax burden on employees in accordance with the Kiki agreement, so to the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u6	Mr President! There was no doubt about what is happening to the purchasing power of pensioners. We will be monitoring the situation very closely. All in all, however, I would like to remind you now of this very important principle that pensioners and workers should be treated equally. Whether retired or at work, it is only fair that income is treated in the same way as taxation, and the tax difference made this year from the government was a great injustice, and pensioners also felt that it was a matter of appreciation. Minister Orpo, your predecessor, Mr Stubb, then Minister Stubb, did not want to commit himself to this equal tax treatment despite his promise before the elections. Now I ask you, Minister Orpo: do you want to commit yourself from now on to treating pensioners and employees in the same way in taxation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u7	Mr President! It says here in the Government Programme that this is what we are doing, and I think that the budget proposal that has been published today is an indication that we want to do so and that we are doing it, because now these same tax reductions are being made for both employees and pensioners. It is, as I said, a question of justice, and that is what we are trying to do in future decisions. I think this is a very clear starting point for government policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u8	Mr President! Minister Orpo spoke beautifully about purchasing power and low incomes. However, a low-income employee is not warmed by the fact that the government's tax line treats everyone evenly. With euros, you buy that food and you pay the rent. Why does the government not target tax reductions for the benefit of the low-income? It would support employment and economic growth in a study and reduce income disparities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u9	Mr President! After all, when the social partners found an agreement on the basis of a kiky solution, the result of the tax solution and the change in these charges that arose from this was that the taxation of employees with real high incomes would have been reduced and those with low and medium incomes would have remained at the same level or tightened. The government has allocated its own tax reduction reserve, that is, this 515 million specifically to people on low and middle incomes, and that is how we will be able to correct this so that everyone will now have that 0.6 percentage point genuine reduction in earnings. So it is not compensation, it is a genuine lightening for all. In addition to low and medium incomes, the government has already taken a decision to improve the 450 million reduction in labour income, which is specifically aimed at low and middle incomes. So this is the work that is being done, what Mrs Aalto is calling for.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u10	Mr President! Indeed, the government promised to reduce income tax if this competitiveness pact was approved. It is indeed necessary to compensate those on low incomes for the negative wage cuts, and it is really great to hear that the government has now taken action and is actually making these income tax reductions targeted specifically at those on low incomes and pensioners. I really would like something concrete right now. This is a new performance. It's looked a little different in the past. As you yourself said, Minister, in the first place, these reductions in income tax would have been directed specifically at high incomes. What kind of concrete measures have you taken to ensure that those income tax reductions benefit most of all people on low incomes and middle incomes?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u11	Minister Orpo, the debate on the tax treatment of pensioners has expanded to include all taxes. Let's allow it this time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u12	Thank you, Mr President. That is a good thing, because tax reductions are targeted at everyone, Today we have done it in concrete terms, that is, once we have adopted the draft budget of the State, the line that I described earlier is that these tax reductions will be equal for all. Indeed, this entry for the low and medium-income groups will be completed in the same way as for the higher incomes, precisely by the government, because it itself would have reduced the tax burden on the higher incomes. In addition, 30 million have been allocated to compensate for these kiky-effects for those on the lowest incomes. They do not pay taxes, but we are currently looking for the model of how this 30 million will be allocated to the most low-income people. Options include, for example, reductions in fees or other means of improving conditions for employment, for example. We are still in the middle of this work and we will find the most effective way to help the most low-income ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u13	Mr President! The Committee on Finance had the opportunity to get to know China, and there this debate was somewhat different. This is where we complain and blame each other. More emphasis was placed on how to achieve the productivity that can then be used to distribute these euros. I think it was good that the government was able to make a decision of this kind, that these tax reductions should be targeted at low incomes and that pensioners should also be involved. But I would like to ask the Prime Minister: since today the Government has decided on the budget, is there any of the things that make it more competitive?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u14	There's a slight out-of-tax movement, but the Prime Minister is responding.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u15	Mr President! These are all the actions that were decided in the budget debate, as well as those that were decided after the spending limits debate on the entrepreneurship and employment package. Perhaps I could return to this issue of taxation when this point in the kiky agreement clearly causes confusion. After all, there was a transfer of costs from employers to employees. Some of these costs are tax deductible. And when this tax deductibility results in a mere improvement in the tax burden on high incomes, that is why the government has allocated these activities to those on low and medium incomes and then, separately, around 30 million still to those employees who do not actually pay taxes. This is because, in accordance with its programme, the government has indeed concentrated the tax reduction resource on low and medium incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u16	Mr President! I would also like to see a debate on how we use tax reductions, as well as various social subsidies and, among other things, rent subsidies in our society. For example, the VVO Group is Finland's largest market-based landlord, and the average rent of the VVO housing stock rose by over 4 per cent last year. Such large increases also reduce the purchasing power of low incomes. According to the financial statements, VVO's net sales amounted to 370 million last year, the profit after taxes was nearly 180 million and dividends were distributed in a princely manner. The dizzy result puts the rent increases into questionable light. As market leader, VVO determines the overall rent level, so it is not assured that the overall rent level will rise. A large part of the profits come from taxpayers' purses through housing allowance. My question is: how do we respond to this issue and the challenge as a government and parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the idea and idea of Question Time is that the focus on what is being asked is also on the follow-up questions and the answers of the ministers. The mere fact that the word in the original question can be found in the follow-up question is not really enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u18	Mr President! In short: The purpose of subsidised rental housing production is, of course, to be able to live there at reasonable and reasonable costs and to increase rents on the basis of the cost-benefit principle, i.e. in housing supported. The Centre for the Development of Construction and Housing (ARA) is the supervisory authority that considers that this is the case, and VVO has indeed largely disposed of these subsidised objects of general interest and moved on to more hard money builders.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u19	Minister Orphan again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u20	Mr President! I would add that, in accordance with the Government Programme, the Ministry of Finance is investigating the tax treatment of foundations and communities of general interest, and this report is, of course, a forum within which these issues can then be discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u22	Mr President! My question concerns the original subject of this question, namely the tax policy of this government. When the money is tight in society and there is little really to share with anyone, it is particularly important for us decision-makers to target all the leeway available, wherever the need is greatest. It is also the most sensible economic policy, because the reductions targeted at people with low and middle incomes are most certainly going to go into circulation, and that is where we are most often able to get the euro around here in society. The Minister of Finance mentioned that a tax ruling had been made in connection with the Kiky agreement. It wasn't a tax solution. The tax solution is the responsibility of the government. And when you have been talking all summer about making this decision one that supports people on low and medium incomes, now that I have your recent proposal on this income tax law and I look at these tables, this is where, for example, the pensioner becomes the average pensioner who gets less than ten dollars a month more in hand and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u23	Mr President! Yes, let me be more specific: the tax solution and the related solution made in connection with the Kiki agreement were similar to that of the combined effect, when it was carefully examined and calculated in the VM, on the higher incomes. That is why the government made this decision of its own, which allowed us to achieve this equal tax treatment for all. I fully agree with you that, especially for the low- and middle-income people, those additional euros will certainly go to consumption, and, as I said, it is the best thing for our domestic demand and markets and, of course, for our small part, to help these low-income ones. That was the logic, that is to say, the solution created in connection with the kiky agreement was such that it was directed at the top of the head. We smoothed it out with this solution. I believe that a reduction in the taxation of labour, a reduction in the taxation of earned income, wherever possible, is a sensible policy. It is precisely from work and diligence that the welfare of this country is increasing, and that is why I consider this solution to be sensible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u24	Värderade Herr Talman! Jag vill berömma regeringen. Det är bra med kattelätttnaderna för löntagare, pensionärer och låginkomttagare. Men då det gäller heletsbeskattningen och köpkraften är jag förundrad över ett you give beslut. Regeringen bestemde i budgetförhandlingarna att drive igenom en ny båtskatt. Det har tidigare sagts att en båtskatt knappast kommenter att inbringa några netpendar då den är så krånglig och byråkratisk att drivea in. Vice statminister Timo Soini motiverade båtskatten med att klämma åt Herrnas lustjakter, men det är många pensionärer som är båtägare som nu får sin Skatt höjd. Bästa regering och finansminister Orpo, finns det seriösa motiveringar för båtskatten och hur mycket den kommer att ämta in, och hur har man tnkt att den ska utformas i practiceken för att inte också drabba vanliga finländska, åländska pensionärer?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u25	Mr President! In the Government Programme negotiations, the introduction of a boat tax was decided and its profit estimate is set at EUR 50 million. At the moment, the Ministry of Finance is finalising this law on boat tax. It is challenging how this is defined, but at the moment it seems that it is precisely on the basis of power and length that boats should be taxed. The amount of the tax would be from 100 to 300 euros depending on the boat's power and size. But, as I said, this is being prepared and we will shortly return to these details.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u26	Mr President! It is clear that this government's tax line is rightly a cause for concern. Here, for example, this week, Mr Zyskowicz admitted that the government's own decisions will eventually go evenly, which means that the high-income ones will get more. In practice, therefore, it means, for example, that the government can afford to reduce the tax burden on high-income managers by several hundred euros and the average low-income employee benefits by a few tens. And many have wondered that in times when quite brutal cuts are being made to unemployment security for the unemployed, students, families with children, everywhere are being cut, but at the same time the fact is that the government has enough tax relief to cover the most fortunate, to reduce the tax burden on millions of people, to reduce the tax burden on forests. I do not think that these are the right choices in these days. I ask you, Minister Orpo, what will you say to the unemployed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u27	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say to the unemployed that we are doing everything we can to enable him to find employment. That is why employment has been put at the top of government policy and even in the budget debate decisions were taken to improve employment and to make it easier for the unemployed to find work. But for this tax policy. So, as early as last year, a EUR 450 million reduction in labour income was made, targeted at low and middle-income workers, which I believe is very supportive. It also makes sense to accept the work. In addition, on the payment side, the increase in early childhood education fees was withdrawn, but it was maintained that the lowest-income early childhood education fees would fall. This too has a major impact on, for example, receiving work and on the position of low income families with children. Then this general reduction in income tax by 0.6% — I think it is fair for everyone to do so. And then you have to remember that Finland still has the world’s worst-class progress. However, it is also important when we consider growth and employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u28	Mr President! Excellent that the newly published budget is a hard work line, a strong work line. At the heart of it is that the work is worthwhile and all the efforts are made to ensure that there is work. It is great that the income tax of all employees is falling, but once this debate has been very many generations, it would be good for the Minister of Finance to say this once again when many Finns hear that it is true that these tax reductions also apply to pensioners. It has been very important for the parliamentary group in the Coalition Party that the taxation of those who have worked all their lives should also be reduced and their purchasing power safeguarded. Could the Minister of Finance say this out loud again?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u29	All right, Minister of Finance, one more time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u30	Mr President! I would like to repeat this on behalf of the whole of our government: Yes, the tax reductions that have now been decided on in today's draft budget also apply to pensioners, in the same way as to the employee. It is a record of the government programme, and it is a question of justice, and that is what we have now held to.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u31	And again, Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u32	Mr President! It is very good that this issue of purchasing power has now been raised here. Our country’s pensioners were very pleased that, after months and months of discussion, the government agreed to include pensioners in these tax reductions. Secretary of Finance Orpo, two questions. Will this be enough to increase purchasing power or will it decrease? And I repeat the question: when money is tight, why can you afford the great tax cuts of the most well-paid?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u33	Mr President! Of course, increasing purchasing power is important for domestic demand and employment and the purchasing power of every household in the family, and that is what these tax solutions aim to achieve. In fact, the decision taken today by the government has further clarified the income effect for pensioners — I do not know whether it has been submitted in the latest version, but, in any case, it has been clarified in such a way that it has improved the position of the low and medium-income groups in relation to the situation of the low and medium-income groups, and, in practice, it is progressing relatively evenly there. On top of that, this government has already twice increased the guarantee pension, which is also here against the lowest-income pensioners. I consider this solution to be fair and to improve purchasing power, and it is important for employment, and it is only through employment that we will continue to be able to make a good policy, taking care of the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u34	And a final supplementary question to this theme.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u35	Mr President! There has been a lot of discussion here about the taxation of employees, but it is also very important to take business taxation into account. SMEs create in this country the wealth with which this country also emerges from its economic crisis. That is why I would like to ask in connection with this, given that there is now an entrepreneurial deduction and a payment-based VAT. Mr Rehn, the Minister for Economic Affairs, who is unfortunately not here today, has spoken of the possibility of applying in some way the Estonian business tax model, which is supported by Finnish Entrepreneurs, for example. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance whether Finland could in any way apply the Estonian business tax model, which, at least in Estonia, has produced jobs and also cash flow, to more companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u36	Mr President! Indeed, on the corporate tax side, from the beginning of next year, entrepreneurial deduction will come into effect and, in addition to this, a very important transition to payment-based VAT, particularly for SMEs. You can be happy with them. In addition, a tax task force of the Ministry of Finance was set up in the previous week to assess the need for a total reform of corporate taxation by the end of January. In this context, solutions such as different investment booking models, including the Estonian tax model, will also be assessed. We want to do these carefully: careful preparation, which has been commissioned for expert background work, and it is based on a well-thought-out approach. The aim is that solutions can be made in the mid-term review next spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u37	Next question, Congressman Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u38	Mr President! The global economy is undergoing rapid economic reform, and most of the growth is now coming from new, clean environmental solutions and growth in the service economy. Our neighbour, Sweden, has just grown by nearly half in the service sector over the past five years, and that is the key to Sweden's growth. In Finland, the government continues to provide very much inefficient business support to stay in the old business structure rather than reform it. The State Economic Research Centre has already criticised previous business subsidies. In June, they estimated that the energy tax refund system for heavy industry has not improved the competitiveness of heavy industry and that the state loses EUR 200 million annually in tax revenue without receiving value, while at the same time removing the incentive to introduce new, clean energy efficiency technologies in Finland. Now you are increasing such business subsidies instead of reducing them by introducing a new emissions trading compensation subsidy. Mr Orpo, why, instead of creating a fair market economy and a lead market, do you support the old business structure with inefficient corporate subsidies?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u39	As far as ministers are concerned, Minister Mykkänen is essentially at the heart of this issue. That's Minister Mykkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u40	Mr President! As far as this emissions trading compensation is concerned, the purpose of emissions trading is not to increase the price of industrial electricity but to encourage the production of energy instead of coal and oil and gas by means of a clean alternative, and that mechanism is not affected by this financial compensation for our most energy-dependent industries: climate objectives remain exactly the same, and this compensation comes from emissions trading revenues as such. You referred here to Sweden, other pioneer countries such as Germany. The majority of the Member States of the European Union, which are part of this same emissions trading system, which unfortunately does not yet belong to all the countries of the world, are using the same type of compensation that we are only now, at last, introducing, including Germany, which is perhaps at the forefront of the energy revolution.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u41	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u42	Mr President! Minister Mykkänen limited his response to this one aid only. In fact, the heavy industry receives a total of around EUR 600 million per year in various tax subsidies, and the economic experts at the State Economic Research Centre have considered them inefficient subsidies that do not improve competitiveness. They have also said this about this new aid: "Studies based on real business production decisions have not found any evidence that there is even a risk of carbon leakage. In that sense, this is in no way justified by the use of public funds to increase these subsidies." They simply remove the incentive to introduce new energy technologies. And the question is much wider. So while the government cuts this EUR 600 million in social security and education for people, with this money it is inefficient that you should not simply reduce your own environmental emissions, do not introduce Finnish technology. Is it not worth believing in a market economy instead of a state that is inefficient, where the state is actually preventing renewal?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u43	Mr President! As Mr Niinistö knows, a long-standing energy policy has been in place in Finland, but environmental pollution has been taxed more and more, and the government has continued to do so. But as far as support for industry is concerned, I think that the whole of this, to which you also refer wisely, should be taken into account what our employment situation really is at the moment. I would not at least like to risk making decisions at the moment which would increase the cost base of our industry so much that it would put at risk the jobs we currently have. I wouldn't want to take that chance. But there are also, as you know, plenty of solutions that are certainly in the right direction from the point of view of the climate and the environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u44	Mr President! However, just as all parties said before the elections that there should be no further cuts in education, there has been a huge cut in the form of a new government, just as before the elections everyone said that it must be possible to reduce inefficient corporate subsidies when money is tight. Without taking a stand now on the research carried out by VATT on how ineffective these methods are now put forward by the government, in any event, I ask the Prime Minister: when resources are scarce, we need new innovations, we need more energy saving, cleaner products, and, as Mr Niinistö said, this market is the one that is growing most globally, and should we, however, be allocating these little resources to sectors that have a real long-term future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u45	The Prime Minister seems to want to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u46	Mr President! These questions are of course in the Rehn region, which is not here to answer, but the government has taken a huge number of measures aimed at moving forward with clean energy and cleantech. We have a climate and energy strategy coming up, and we are taking very tough goals and challenges there. We know that it is in this area that Finnish industry can also give the world a lot of climate change. We have a lot to offer the world, and when the climate and energy strategy comes before Parliament in due course, you will see the degree of concreteity in which we will make proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u47	Mr President! It is not surprising that the Greens are not interested in Finnish jobs, This industrial compensation is about Finnish industry maintaining competitiveness. Poland, among other things, compensates 100% for its own industry, which uses fossil fuels. Finland is involved in this, we support only 50%. But the intention is to preserve Finnish jobs. That is what this is all about. It is wrong for this compensatory aid, which is given to industry, to be compared with any social security system or any other. It is precisely Finnish jobs that are at stake. I would like to ask the Environment Minister, Mr Tiilikainen, whether the criteria for calculating this burden-sharing of EU climate emissions within the EU have now been met.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u48	Mr President! Not all of the calculation criteria have certainly yet been worked out, but while, under the Paris climate agreement, the world is moving towards a more climate-friendly policy and the EU is making its own promise of 40% emission reductions, Finland is proactively and actively involved in our government programme's recordings: renewable energy over 50%, renewable transport fuels up to 40%, halving imported oil. In other words, the Government's concrete actions and objectives are very climate-friendly. At the same time, however, we also want to defend those existing industrial jobs. As far as these subsidies are concerned: in fact, VATT is criticising these very energy subsidies. Who in the government were deciding on their slurry criteria and increases for 2012? The Greens and the Left Alliance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u49	Mr President! Exports, and in particular support for them, are a type of skill. China and many other countries are playing by their own rules, we all know that. But you have to be there when it's hard. In that sense, I support and support the government in this regard. Outokumpu and other actors are in trouble, there are actually thousands of jobs in trouble. But it is a question of trade policy, it is an issue at EU level, and that is why I ask you, Minister Mykkänen: what are you going to do about China and other countries that behave very aggressively in state aid policy playing with the same rules as us and the other EU countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u50	Mr President! An important question, and we are perhaps at a rather large crossroads in general with whether we can move forward in global free trade and fair rules of play to ensure that European and Asian industries are on the same track. It is very important that this autumn we move forward with the United States and Canada in agreements that will now open the way to EU trade agreements with China, India, South America, which would also be able to agree more precisely on the rules of the game, as regards state aid. This, of course, also relates to the issue of China's market economy status, which is being assessed this autumn, and the final objective must be that China will also be heading in the same direction as we have been doing with regard to emission pricing. Fortunately, the Environment Minister, Mr Tiilikainen, has done some good work here, and he has been led by the major powers leading to the Paris agreement on climate change, and that is where we are going. In fact, price differentials in these areas are also narrowing in energy prices. Before we're on the same page, I think it's more fair for steel to be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u51	Mr President! You have to speak facts and facts when you start arguing about different kinds of subsidies. In fact, these subsidies are exactly what some countries have, for example, lower energy taxation and try to get on the same track with industry, or that Germany, for example, is making similar reductions. We try to keep the industry in Finland and develop it in Finland, that's the goal, which makes it a little difficult to really compare. Secondly, there is also a genuine carbon leakage. For example, in the steel industry, there has been a situation in Europe: China still imported 9% in 2004, now it imports 26%. At the same time, CO2 emissions in China have increased by 4 million tonnes per year. Eli has facts in this direction as well. But I am actually asking Minister Tiilikainen: there have also been interesting new perspectives around the world on emissions trading issues, for them to be put into certain funds, which will once again support the new cleantech sectors and, in a certain way, bring about a new momentum.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u52	Mr President! A very important part of that international climate policy is that it is precisely that clean, emission-free technology, its deployment that is being promoted in various countries, as well as various international funds that support countries to adapt to climate change. This will create a very stable and growing market for decades, and I believe that Finnish and European companies will have a good chance of growing in this market. New businesses can be accommodated, new jobs can be accommodated as long as we have solutions to offer and international financial instruments are used in a sensible way. But international climate policy gives this a good backseat, and this is an opportunity that we should seize.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u53	Mr President! It's ultimately about choices. So, in the opinion of the top economic experts in Finland, hundreds of millions of euros, even more than EUR 600 million, are now being spent annually on aid that, according to studies, does not sustain competitiveness, does not create jobs, but rather prevents the creation of new jobs in industry, because those industries that invest in the introduction of new environmental technologies do not have a home market. We are now talking about very inefficient business aid, and in my opinion and in the view of the Greens, we should not create permanent business subsidies that maintain the old business structure, but should facilitate our industry, the service economy and business life to be renewed under market conditions, and we need incentive schemes to make the pioneer market in Finland, to develop new sectors, and also to support those old sectors, so that they can also make those new products. Thus, in the shipbuilding industry, too, the innovation support came into its new LNG technology. The shipbuilding industry was saved by renewal, not by holding on to the old one. So I'm going to ask the government again:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that we stick to the time limits set: 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u55	Mr President! We currently have a situation in which, for example, for the first time in decades, a billion-dollar investment is being made in the forestry industry: new ones are being planned and started. They are based on the long use of renewable energy and have new innovative solutions. But we also know that the competitiveness of the industry as a whole, including the steel industry, the metal industry, the shipbuilding industry, still depends on how it works. When there are also the speeches that I believe, which I want to listen to, which warn us that creating additional costs for our industry at the moment, with jobs that are important to us and at the moment with growth, would undermine competitiveness and could cause significant damage to our employment, which is still at a disadvantage, I do not think that this solution should be taken at the present time. But here you are quite right that we must continue to favour solutions whenever the situation is possible, which are environmentally friendly, which drive the development of new technologies. However, we must proceed in such a way that we take care of Finnish employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u56	Mr President! Today it was announced that GDP growth will be 1.1% this year and 0.9% next year. It's worth taking care of. This must be the background to the fact that our exports are now too weak, that investment is too low. With regard to this thinking, it is very important that emissions trading compensation for energy-intensive industries can be secured under these circumstances because it is at such a delicate stage. We don't have the right to move now. The second thing is that Finnvera's guarantee powers were increased, which is also a very important issue and the message that exports would go on to pull, but yes we certainly have corporate subsidies such as this overall reform should be done, to clean up these corporate subsidies, look at it as a whole and perhaps try to ensure that more is supported by this kind of innovation, business start-ups, its types of things in the future. How do you feel about this kind of total detachment and the need for reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u57	Mr President! I'm sure we'll need an overview of this kind. There has been a lot of talk about this, but we must make this transition very carefully and prudently, in such a way that we can give time for renewal. Our industry, such as the forest industry, has been regenerating so quickly through innovations towards bioproduct factories. As I recall, about 30 applications for various bioproduct projects are in TEM now inside. We also have happy news from that side of the investment. The amount of investment, export guarantee money has been significantly increased. It is a positive thing that demand has increased there. Also, the SME barometer had doubled from the previous barometer, which also promises good results. We have such cautious positive signs, and these we now need to be able to confirm so that this growth career could be achieved. Growth of 2% will then begin to be reflected in employment. Those numbers aren't there yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u58	Next question, Congressman Henrikson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u59	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! First of all, a quote from one Member of Parliament: 'The preparation of reforms that will last longer than the parliamentary term must be carried out in a parliamentary manner. I do not understand why this government gave up this one strength of Finnish parliamentaryism. In this parliamentary term, the reform of defence forces, constituencies, municipal structures and social and health care would certainly have required parliamentary preparation." The part of the quote on social welfare could have been a joint demand from the opposition that the reform of social and health care should be returned to parliamentary preparation. However, the quote is from a speech made in November 2013 by the President of the Centre, Prime Minister Juha Sipilä. Prime Minister, have you forgotten your earlier statements on parliamentary preparation and its importance,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u60	Mr President! It is true that during the last parliamentary term, parliamentary preparation was not very popular. During this parliamentary term, we have set up a parliamentary monitoring group to take the war forward from where we left off during the last parliamentary term. And now, as a whole, a parliamentary council has been set up to support corporate governance. There has been no such body in the past that we are able to follow this issue of corporate governance, which is a matter of state ownership, together on a long-term basis and to draw up long-term guidelines together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u61	I would now ask those representatives who wish to ask supplementary questions to stand up and press the V button. I give you a few supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u62	Mr President! As you well know, Prime Minister, the parliamentary monitoring group is quite different from the parliamentary group. I now call for this joint parliamentary follow-up and also for us to be involved in the preparation itself. Under the leadership of the city centre, the Sote reform has also become a regional reform. This is a new element, and this is an infinitely large innovation. It is perhaps the largest single administrative reform ever made in this good country. Prime Minister, is it not high time that all the parliamentary groups should be involved in this in order to achieve a good result?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u63	Mr President! I would like to say, first of all, that, if we look back on that last parliamentary term, at the beginning of the last parliamentary term, the Katainen Government was not keen to put those parliamentary working groups in place. That enthusiasm came only after the government had difficulty taking those things forward. I myself was on the Committee on Social Affairs and Health during the last parliamentary term, and I did everything I could to ensure that the reform of the social and health services had been carried out there, but as we know, it did not work. But then about the parliamentary work of this government in relation to this reform: I myself quickly estimate that, in addition to its parliamentary task force on social security, we have a parliamentary working group on regional reform. The municipality of the future is in the parliamentary working group: what is the municipality of the future? And then there will also be a parliamentary negotiating board for pilot activities. That there is also this interaction. You always have to get more, too, but then I'll tell you, if you do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u64	Mr President! This reform of the social economy is a question of historic reform, which has been pointed out by many. It is a matter of a very significant social change where it is important that this kind of consensus is maintained over the parliamentary term. It has now been argued that last season the government did not want to engage in parliamentaryism. Why are you repeating this same mistake now? In this situation, I think it would be important to find an agreement that goes beyond the parliamentary term in such a way that the services of citizens can be secured and the safety nets put in place. The last meeting of this parliamentary monitoring group has been before the Midsummer in connection with this social reform. Since then, this working group has not met. It has had no influence whatsoever on these big policies on forced-to-carrying and the transfer of funds to private companies. I very much hope that the government will take up this opposition proposal which was made at the initiative of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u65	Mr President! First of all, when I have taken a close look at this common view of this parliamentary preparation of the wars yesterday and have seen it, and when you say this in fact, that the Council of State should immediately invite a parliamentary working party to ensure that this preparation is progressing, I think that, if we really have had a round of opinions for several weeks, it will be difficult to see that we are starting again at the same time with a parliamentary working group. When there is a glimpse of the fact that this regional reform has now begun, it has certainly not come as a surprise to Parliament that it is a clear record in the government programme that the government will also start to gather the regional government and the regional tasks and put them here in the autonomous region. If we are also self-governing with regard to the wars,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u66	Mr President! Indeed, the monitoring group is different from the group. The monitoring group will mainly provide information but will not be able to participate in joint decision-making. Social welfare reform is very important for the future of Finland as a whole. It is important to improve access to basic health care, to secure seamless service chains and to curb cost increases. It could be compared to comprehensive school reform. During the last parliamentary term, all committed themselves to public service production being the main issue and being complemented by private service production. Now, in the hands of today's government, the reform has become a privatisation and incorporation project and the original objectives appear to be forgotten. Would it not make sense now to make the kind of reform that will take time and that all parties can commit themselves to in the future, and would not such a common line and common reform be best served by parliamentary preparation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u67	I have to repeat myself now that, if we have this far-reaching preparation at this point, it is difficult to think that we should start over. But I fully share this idea of all these ways with Mr Sarkkinen. The goals have not been lost. The main objective of the social welfare reform is that we are able to secure equal services for people, to build up and reduce this regional inequality and also to secure funding and therefore to place this responsibility for the organisation of social services on the wider shoulders. And those wider shoulders are, in this case, the province.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u68	Mr Rinne, it is absolutely my last speech to this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u69	Thank you, Mr President. You do not have any articles on freedom of choice, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. You lack the principles of the transfer of the real estate mass. You are lacking in managing this cost development for the future in this model of yours. You have a cruel cut list attached to this package. I simply ask: how can we get involved in this preparation in order to get these things right in such a way that the municipalities can also be involved in this service production? I would ask you, Mr Government, to allow this parliamentary preparation to continue in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u70	Mr President! Firstly, with regard to this EUR 3 billion savings target, I would say that we have certainly not abandoned it, but there is also a mechanism in the Regional Finance Act to ensure that the sharp increase in costs of EUR 3 billion can be contained. As far as freedom of choice is concerned, it is well known that these policies will be adopted in the next few weeks, but what has already been published there at the end of June will be able to see that line, and in November we will be able to present this government's proposal on freedom of choice. As far as real estate is concerned, you obviously meant the property that might be left empty. As far as these are concerned, we have spent the whole of the summer working together, and we will be able to provide more information about this already in the coming weeks to the municipalities and to all the commentators, and that is an important issue. That's what we're gonna make sure there's more to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u71	Next question, Mr Ala-Nissila.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u72	Mr President! As has already been said here, there are three important issues for Finland's economy and employment: exports, exports and exports. There is also positive news in this regard, as the Prime Minister pointed out, that the barometers of SMEs are creeping up. But, above all, the shipbuilding industry, especially in Western Finland, Turku and Rauma, has some positive news. All in all, it is calculated that in the next ten years this production of the Finnish shipbuilding industry could reach up to EUR 70 billion. This presents a positive problem in the sense that this also requires the financing of export credit, which is also being done by our rival countries. I would like to ask the government: how are you prepared now, when, of course, there is some provision for this important increase in the maritime industry, which is reflected in a positive way throughout the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u73	Mr President! These are indeed positive news from that direction in Turku. Here there is also a positive demand for export guarantees, and this week the government decided to significantly increase the maximum amount of export guarantees. We also heard from Finnvera that demand for products, including these new products for intermediate financial products, has started to grow. We have, as I mentioned earlier, an SME barometer on the rise. And to this case in Turku: perhaps even this much maligned sulphur directive will turn to our advantage, because I understand that these ships are equipped with LNG engines.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u74	Next question, Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u75	Mr President! The long-term demographic bias has created both the dependency ratio and the sustainability gap in our country, which means that too few children are born to us in Finnish. The Ministry of Finance has estimated that an increase of 0.5 in the fertility rate would reduce our sustainability deficit by EUR 2 billion. One key challenge is to reconcile family and study. A trained woman living in the capital region usually does not have a first child until she is 34 years old, ten years after the best fertility age is over. I would have asked the Minister of Education: What does the government intend to do to make it easier to combine study with family life? Is there financial support coming from the government for studying families?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u76	Mr President! I don't think our family minister is answering today. This is, in fact, quite a bigger question than the study-related issue of this minor or reduced increase in Finland. But it is a serious matter, and, of course, the special thing is that you can, in Finland, if your family’s various child-reading wishes were fulfilled. And as far as this combination of studies is concerned, it is a genuine problem, in which way we could be more supportive of the reconciliation of studies and family life, and in what way we can send a positive signal that, even when we study, it is quite possible and even desirable that those families should be set up and other aspects of life should also move forward according to their own wishes. At the moment, we are undergoing a wide range of educational reforms,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u77	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 14/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u78	Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health dealt with the Government's proposal No. 125 concerning the Tobacco Act. This proposal concerns the correction of the technical gap in the transitional provision of the Tobacco Act, which entered into force on 15 August. The purpose of the provision was to allow consumers to order electronic cigarettes and nicotine liquids from abroad until products are sold in Finland in accordance with the new law. Under the transitional provision, the ban on distance selling will enter into force from the beginning of next year. However, a transitional period is also necessary for the purchase or reception of these products by private individuals, so that Customs does not have to confiscate legally sold products. According to the draft law, Customs must, of its own motion, return any goods seized or taken over. In its report, the committee is in favour of supplementing the transitional provision as proposed. Since the government's proposal, it has appeared that prior notification of the sale of these products in Finland has been made in such a way that the first products are not on sale at the beginning of next year. The committee therefore proposes in its report that the transitional period be extended in this respect to the beginning of July next year, in order not to create a problematic situation for users of products where products would not be sold in Finland and could not be legally ordered abroad either. The committee's report is unanimous and supports the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u79	Mr President! Just as the chairman of the committee presented this issue, ordering tobacco products, e-cigarettes and nicotine liquids abroad will be banned from the beginning of 2017, and this is linked to the new Tobacco Act, which entered into force in mid-August. In the future, nicotine cartridges from electric cigarettes will be sold in domestic stores. The purpose of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health was, of course, to register in the law this transitional period, when ordering products would still be legal, but this transitional provision was not fully registered in the law. This present presentation is a technical change and a correction to the fact that it is possible to order products until the beginning of July 2017 and that the products may therefore be on the market. This also aims to remedy the problem faced by the users who, however, have experienced, and also the fact that Customs is able to give them back these confiscated products. There has been a blunder here, and yet the intention has not been to make it difficult for anyone to get their products, and that is now being corrected. This has also become a lot of contacts, and this has been the subject of discussions during the summer. People have asked whether such a thing has been recognized and, of course, whenever a mistake occurs, it will be corrected, and in that sense it has been done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u80	Mr President! This really corrects the technical blunder, and in that respect I have nothing to say. But in this context I would like to draw attention to the further preparation of the Tobacco Act. A representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in one of the media said that now that this big reform has been carried out, there is no further prospect. In my view, it is very important that we continue to reform the tobacco law, and next we need to highlight these unbranded or unmarked packets of tobacco that have already been introduced in the most advanced countries. I believe that this reform would have an important role to play in reducing smoking, above all among young people. The second issue relating to this tobacco law, which is now under discussion, in so far as it comes into force from the beginning of next year, is this ban on balcony smoking. I have seen in the media, but unfortunately also in the form of various so-called experts, the most bizarre interpretations of this ban on balcony smoking. After all, the law provides quite unambiguously that when a housing company applies, the municipality must order — that is, order — if the smoke can pass and so on. It doesn't say "can order." And that law is nothing about how often there is a party next door, where you go on a balcony with a cigarette, or whether a smoking neighbor has moved out of the house or not. A smoking ban should be imposed if the housing company applies, even to a housing company where there is currently no smoker. I hope that, if necessary, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will give clarifications to the various parties in order to combat such misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u81	Mr President! Of course, it is a shame that mistakes of this kind are being made and are going to pass. It is a good thing that now is likely to be the time to fix this before, in a way, it becomes unnecessary at the turn of the year. I personally welcome the fact that this ban on balcony smoking will come into force and its parliament has already approved it. Now I've just been watching with a little interest how big the rest of the game will be, with this legislation, banned at once. It is necessary to monitor how these decisions take place. I think that is a very bureaucratic and difficult model, and I hope that in the future it will be possible for the housing company to decide for itself — in the same way as for many other things — whether to smoke in these houses on the balcony. With regard to smoking in the car when there is a child on the way, it is very positive that the change in the car now takes effect at the turn of the year. There too, of course, monitoring is a bit unusual when it is pushed, for example, by teachers and others. But I agree with Mrs Zyskowicz that measures to reduce smoking in Finland are worth continuing. I am not quite sure whether these will lead to this, because many of them, of course, are using electric tobacco as a way out of traditional tobacco.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u82	Mr President! As a representative Mr Juvonen pointed out, this bill is a technical amendment, and it is a good thing, but it is, of course, worth speaking in this context, as Mr Heinonen and Mr Zyskowicz used, in general, about smoking and tobacco legislation. Personally, I am a little puzzled by the kind of passion that is putting smokers under pressure. I am not an active smoker myself, but, like many Finns, I am sure that I am a passive smoker. And considering, for example, the idea of a smokeless Finland, it does seem rather unrealistic to me at the moment. Of course, if people's habits change and they make that decision themselves, that's a good thing, but like a representative. Heinonen has pointed out, for example, that this electronic tobacco has been the way for many people to get out of ordinary tobacco, and I find it difficult that this is what is being done on this road as it has now been decided. Then this idea that when you have children on board, that smoking is made illegal is, of course, a perfectly acceptable and good idea, but a normal reasonable and thoughtful person would do that anyway if you did not smoke when you have children on board. I do have the question of how such legislation will be monitored and how it will change the situation in itself — in any case, by common sense, this should be the case without legislation. In this context, there is also criticism of the fact that there is always such a strong belief in the power of legislation. Personally, I would like to believe in the power of that common sense first, and then, if it does not work for any reason, if possible, we will see legislation. There seems to be more legislation ahead and common sense is left second.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u83	Mr President! In preparing tobacco legislation it is good to go ahead of the city's senses, and indeed the purpose of this bill that was in the tobacco bill was that until these products, i.e. e-cigarettes and nicotine liquids, are available for sale in Finland, consumers can order them, and that is what is being said here. Yes, it must be a strong message to the government and the Minister for Social Affairs and Health that measures are being taken all the time in the world to create a smoke-free state. Finland has been a pioneer, but we may not be, if we remain in bed with this tobacco law, but we need action here. Plain packaging can be carried out, but also in different areas of the ban on smoking: for example, in playgrounds where children are daily, it would make sense to ban smoking. So much remains to be done if we look at what is being done internationally. And yes, a strong message from the Committee on Social Affairs and Health can certainly be sent to the Minister for Social Affairs and Health that the reform of tobacco legislation should indeed continue. I have to say that if we look at premature deaths, tobacco is number one in everything: 5,000 people die every year in Finland from smoking. In other words, it is most cost-effective in terms of public health to systematically reform the Tobacco Act. I hope that the Minister will bring in further legislation during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u84	Mr President! No smoking Finland 2030 is indeed a goal, and unlike Mr Elo, I believe that this utopia can be achieved and implemented. Who would have thought in time that there was a way to get rid of restaurant smoking in really every pub? But this only happened, and countries such as Ireland, California, U.S.A., started out. I was myself the Minister of Social Affairs and Health when this legislation was also adopted in Finland, and there was strong opposition. It was claimed that the restaurant industry will collapse once and for all if smoking there is stopped. What's happened? The restaurant industry has benefited from the fact that people can enjoy and eat in smoke-free air and even families with children can come with them. In other words, I would also like to support what Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Sarkomaa have said here that this government proposal will take the matter forward, but this must not remain. The fact that we have a smoke-free environment must be encouraged at all costs. It must also be encouraged to give up smoking and create smoke-free environments, even in the open air, just as Sarkomaa said, in playgrounds, in beaches, in places where children, young people, families and we all live where smoke disturbs and creates nausea. In other words, the goal must be a non-smoking Finland, and that is for the benefit of everyone. That doesn't mean some people are being squeezed. It does not mean that people have a right to a smoke-free environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u85	Mr President! Limiting human rights is always an issue that needs to be carefully considered. On the other hand, human health must also be at the heart of what kind of society we have and what goals we are pursuing. If tobacco were introduced to the market today, it would not be accepted in any forum, because it still contains so many harmful substances that are harmful to the human body and health that it simply cannot be accepted on the market. We have a wide range of experiments, different tests, different controls on products entering the market, and even smaller things become a rejection decision. However, we are in a situation where tobacco has been accepted globally, but the fact that we are aiming for a smoke-free Finland, for non-smoking hospitals, for non-smoking jobs and so on is a very good goal. In what way it can be achieved, it will be done step by step. Among other things, the first steps of the Tobacco Act were noted here in Finland, when Ireland was an example. I myself went to Ireland at my own expense on a holiday, and it was quite interesting to see how the Irish people responded to the situation in their own pubs. I thought there was a terrible resistance. On the contrary, the structure of the pubs had also changed slightly. There were women, there were men, there were those who did not want to be in tobacco smoke, not to mention the staff and everything. In other words, we have moved many steps forward in Finland, and that is why these government proposals and all their repair movements are the consistent work that Finland is doing and what Europe and the world are doing on a wider scale. Yes, this work must be supported, even though it sometimes receives feedback. On the other hand, after the adoption of the Tobacco Act, many of me once confessed that it is nice now that after a night at restaurants there is not a head sore at least by smoke and the clothes do not smell like tobacco.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u86	Mr President! Here, representatives of Sarkomaa, Haatainen and Rossi have made excellent contributions and it is very easy and good to join them. Representative Elo was concerned about the zeal with which smoking was resisted. This expression might also suit me if I were not otherwise a very calm person, but I admit that I am very consistently trying to combat smoking. I believe that we, the majority of the people who are suffering from tobacco smoke, would be entitled to avoid smoking, smoke and the harm caused by tobacco smoke in more public places. This objective that Finland could be smoke-free in 2030 should be kept in mind and should encourage the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to prepare further tightening of tobacco legislation. As regards Mr Elon's view that no normal and reasonable person smokes in a car if it has a child, and therefore that such legislation should not be regulated, it can simply be said that no sensible and normal person robs and rapes, and yet we need legislation that deals with this issue and bans it and even imposes sanctions on the less sensible people who, however, commit these crimes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u87	Mr President! Personally, I am not a fan of smoking, but as a politician, I cannot help but share Elon's concerns about what kind of control policy is being pursued in connection with smoking. It should be noted that our society is full of different kinds of health evils, but only some of them become a political problem. Typically, these are vices that are very common in working-class culture, while, on the other hand, health evils that are typical of all strata or, in particular, of the upper middle class do not receive any similar treatment. In addition to smoking, another such kind of working-class vice, which is subject to control, sanctions and stigmatisation, is obesity. Both of them did not get into this position until they became working - class vices. As long as smoking and munching among the elite were common, so long they were considered to be perfectly acceptable activities. If we look objectively at both the individual’s health and the different environmental impacts, at least as harmful are the consumption of alcohol and the weariness of work, the cost of which to this society, both economically and humanly, is enormous, but where the means that are at all targeted are more linked to care and where individual freedom and trust in individual responsibility are required. If we consider what is the most dangerous vice for the future of our children, it is, of course, over-consumption, which, of course, is practised most in those circles where there is the greatest amount of money, but it is not subject to any sort of control action in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u88	Mr President! It was refreshing that Mr Kontula brought this aspect of the class struggle to this debate, but I have to ask: when someone next door drinks liquor or wears out at work or eats meat or spends too much money on a variety of vanity, these may all be harmful things, but how does it hurt my health, for example, as a person suffering from asthma, that this person sitting next to him pours cognac in his mouth, as is known to be done within the elite, or does over-consumption or these other things mentioned by Mr Kontula? So I suppose this ban on smoking is about harm being done to those next door, such as children.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u89	Mr President! It was interesting indeed to find this class-based approach to smoking. I think, Mr Kontula, that if you are concerned about the working population in particular, as is apparent from the speech, then you should certainly contribute to their health. Lung diseases, asthmatics, cancers, even according to studies, for example, when it comes to giving birth or the introduction of a prenatal pregnancy, and so on — all these things are affected by smoking. There is absolutely clear scientific knowledge and research here. In other words, I could actually imagine that we should be concerned for the working population and not smoke, because it has a weakening effect on all these factors, to which I referred a little.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u90	Well, one more response, Mr Haatainen. Then to the same Members who have asked for answers and who are still here, some of you, I will give them the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u91	Mr President! With regard to this speech by Mr Kontula, I would now like to take the floor a little bit like this in order not to foment such a class difference debate or similar, because the fact is that there are more smokers in the lower classes of society, which also accumulates other health problems. Of course, overweight and such issues are also dangerous to health, but the starting point here is to help people get away from life - styles that threaten their health and their future. That does not mean that people are being blamed or restricted, but the question of tobacco is quite clear: it is an environmental hazard and side smoke is the most dangerous, we know that, and many people are also allergic to tobacco smoke. It is not just that — of course, if tobacco smoke is sniffed sometimes, it probably will not cause cancer immediately — but many are allergic to it, and it is wrong that people are constantly exposed to smoke. It is therefore good to have sufficient and as much smoke-free environments as possible. This is why, for example, the issue of balcony smoking is an issue that should be brought into line with the legislation. It has caused much anxiety and grief in trying to resolve this unclear legal situation. Now it would just be appropriate for the Ministry to make these processes clear and clear, that when the housing company is seeking non-smoking, the decision will come from the municipality and then the matter will be clear and moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u92	Mr President! It is all right to say for once that Mr Kontula gave a very good speech. I agree with the idea that even a worker and a working woman have earned their kopsis and perhaps even that Nort if they want to, and do not need a THL representative to come from around the waist to measure. Yeah, it's legal to smoke here right now, and it's legal to have a little bit of time, if that's what you want, and it really does. This is what I'm looking for, it feels like more and more people want to control what a person is allowed to do, what he's not allowed to do. This is disturbing because we do not disagree that tobacco is dangerous to health. Of course, scientific evidence is beyond doubt, and passive smoking, for example, can be even more dangerous than active smoking. But what I really disagree with is that if Mr Zyskowicz, with the support of some others, is to suggest that we should go even tighter than what has happened now, when there is indeed already a ban on, for example, balcony smoking and electric tobacco, then I do not think that these new steps since then could significantly help it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u93	Mr. Speaker! This kind of considerate smoking is also a good thing to be quoted. In fact, many people see where they want to smoke and do harm to others, because it is passive smoking, or having the power and influence of smoke, is really both embarrassing for many and also dangerous. In this sense, it would certainly be desirable to have such an enlightened tobacco education carried on by smokers without legislation — even to the point where the tobacco is put out — as if it were just like a splash on your own or a neighbor’s yard or on the sidewalk or anything else. I'll never be able to understand that shit is getting dirty. Mr. Speaker! To conclude, I would like to remind you that the cost of tobacco diseases in this country is estimated to be around the full annual capacity of two central hospitals. So let us talk about an investment of around EUR 2 billion. And in this respect, we must then have the right of society, because with taxpayers' money, however, we have to pay for these costs of health care, direct these things and try to influence both the vision of people and the vision of society in a positive way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u94	Mr President! Mr Rossi, are you aware of the costs of alcohol in this society or the costs of passive care of well-being at work? Both are much more expensive than smoking. However, these issues will not be addressed. I am sure we all agree that smoking is dangerous to health, but if we have a number of factors that are objectively as dangerous — let alone a little more dangerous — and something is being reacted to, one is not reacting to another, and they are still clearly focusing on socio-economic cultures, then it is a question of meditating class policy and no longer of showing others how they should live. Last year, there was a trash commercial in the movies with a talking trash can. I don't know how many people saw it. Whenever a person was sitting next to it and smoking, it began to insult this person. It told me how bad you smell, asked if you thought any of those guys would want to kiss you, and your wife probably doesn't like you either. If it is said here that no one will surely want to blame smokers, then I, if I had been a smoker, would be a little offended by being associated with the dents of disgust, debauchery and unpleasantness. And this is not the case with health evils that are typical of the higher social classes. This is a fact where there is quite a lot of research in Finland today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u95	Mr President! During these years we have been talking only about this danger of tobacco, and it does surprise me, as Mr Kontula also mentioned. I am not saying that it is not dangerous, but these restrictions always touch this cigarette. But if you think of what alcohol brings when you come, you say that it is a drink of the wise, but there is no mention of what this huge consumption of alcohol brings to society: first of all, what it brings to the one who consumes it — talk of drunken madness, brain drains, cirrhosis of the liver, pancreatic infections and various types of cancer — and these costs, when treated, a terrible amount to society. These diseases also become enormous absenteeism from work, which is how much they are for society as much as these effects of tobacco. It would be desirable for those who are rightly talking about this tobacco issue to have a debate on these alcohol problems and the enormous cost they bring to society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u96	Mr President! This small technical change has sparked an interesting, wide-ranging debate on the dangers of tobacco. When I was a kid, I remember how it was pretty common in the homes to smoke. Fortunately, it has been overcome by education and by the fact that, fortunately, in many homes, it is no longer the way to smoke but rather to go out and smoke and not those who do not smoke. I also very much welcome the fact that, in time, a decision was made about not smoking in the offices. I also remember from childhood how people were still smoking on the bank premises or at the town hall, and it is not very long since the restaurant workers were forced to smoke. Fortunately, they too are free of it, and I understand that both employees and customers are quite satisfied that smoking is being handled elsewhere than there. I also welcome the fact that children are protected from passive smoking, and I understand that and I am not in favour of banning smoking in homes. But it is good that in places like this, where we are in general, this passive smoking is being tackled, and hopefully even in homes it will be reduced by awareness-raising. This is important, and it's in the best interests of every child.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u97	Mr President! In my previous speech, Mrs Haatainen made a very serious point about the mistake that I wish to correct in this connection. So, of course, we are not banning electric tobacco, but the flavors or fragrances that are characteristic of it and all other tobacco products, and then the age of purchase for electric tobacco is the same as for tobacco by the way. So I want this to be corrected so that no one gets the wrong interpretation of how this thing is going. Finally, what Mr Heinonen has raised, and I agree, of course, that there is no reason to go all over smoking, for example from homes, to deny: I see only myself that if we talk about Smokeless Finland 2030, which, in my opinion, is a good aim in the interests of education, then if it is achieved through education on a so-called voluntary basis, then it is a good objective. But if it is to be achieved legally, it is difficult for me to see how it would eventually happen, other than in practice prohibiting smoking from all other premises except those specifically designed for them, such as restaurants. So this is what I am looking for, where we ultimately want to go legally. I can see that there should be some limits to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u98	Mr President! Both culturally and legally, Finland is heading in a good direction both for this tobacco and then for alcohol. In either case, the taxes that are levied in these contexts do not correspond to the burden of society that comes from them. I think that legislation and the legislator should start with the idea that if someone causes harm to another person, such as a health problem or something else, it should be addressed in some way. I think that good progress has been made here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u99	Mr President! Mr Kontula, you asked here whether I know what alcohol damage is costing society and perhaps people in Finland and more widely. There are a lot of estimates of these. THL estimates go through 2 — 3 and even much more billions than is the case with tobacco. In other words, we are talking about the cost of society, that many of the debates we have here are just like Peanuts compared to it. And so, yes, of course, the health problems of alcohol must also be a matter of concern. For this purpose, Finland also has a rather strict alcohol policy, although it has now widened in many ways along the way, but responsibility is also involved. That is why I would also like to see this use of tobacco products and the side where this legislation is being dealt with, that responsibility also comes into play in some way, and it does come from people themselves. It is difficult, through legislation, to always say how people should behave. But a considerate person also takes into consideration other people, and this is what I do wish it would happen among all the population groups. That is why I am still somewhat unfamiliar with the idea that this type of stimulant — which is, of course, all tobacco, alcohol, drugs — is, in some way, still classified on the basis of social socio-economic considerations. Of course, there are targets that some people use something more and so on, but the problem is common, and I do want to emphasise this. Therefore, the Tobacco Act must also be understood as a follow-up in Finland, and I am sure that the follow-up will come from the Ministry and also from a little wider districts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u100	Mr President! I have listened here to this debate, which is in fact quite a good general debate on what would actually be the kind of things that we legislators could direct with good legislation. Yes, in terms of tobacco, such systematic tax tightening would be such a steering effect that certainly could also reduce smoking. I myself belong to the group of people who have been subjected to tobacco smoke throughout their childhood. We have had five people smoking in a small apartment, which led me to start my own smoking when I was eight years old, and then, at the age of 12, with a spiritual awakening, it was fortunately left behind. But this development, which we now have here, is very good. If we are going to get here to Smokeless Finland 2030, we need much more of such steering effects than such absolute prohibition-based effects.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u101	Mr President! When it comes to tobacco and the harmful effects of tobacco, we all know them — including those of us who smoke. Quite a few of us would certainly like to stop if it were not as addictive as it is. It's not easy to stop that. I was just here for about ten days in China, and I can tell you that there wasn't a lot of people out there smoking. Of course, it was allowed outside, but everywhere inside it was also banned in China. China also wants to reduce tobacco and its harmful effects. It was extremely difficult to find cigarettes, by the way. They weren't just like that. It wasn't sold in restaurants, it wasn't sold in a hotel. I had to find that kiosk where they were sold. But if we assume that these tax increases alone are aimed at eradicating tobacco, then there is a twofold effect: on the one hand, of course, the State will lose tax revenue quite well if people stop smoking, and even more so when people do not stop but go to neighbouring countries and use smuggled tobacco. Then the harmful effects of tobacco will be maintained, but there will be no tax revenue. This is another issue where there are two sides. I used to think that there should never be a totalitarian ban, but I have changed my position because my son, who at the time had a couple of children under ten, said that he thought it would be a very good thing that they would never be sold tobacco, and if it was already banned, they would never even start smoking tobacco. So yes it is this kind of forward thinking. Breaking off here and now will never work, but if we work together to make Finland smoke free in 10 years or 15 years' time, then I will be ready to do that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u102	Mr President! I'll be brief. The fact is that both alcohol and tobacco consumption in this country would only have a positive economic significance, that is to say only a positive equation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u103	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u104	Mr President! At present, only a student who does not belong to any religious community or who recognizes a faith that is not taught in an educational institution can enter into the teaching of philosophy. However, being part of a certain church or religious community does not automatically mean that the family or the student themselves are also in favour of school education in this religion. Therefore, the right to choose between one’s own religion and life views should also be extended to basic education and upper secondary school students. Freedom of choice is defended by the freedom of religion and conscience of the Constitution and non-discrimination on the basis of religion and belief. The bill would strengthen the spectral autonomy of children and their families and would ensure the same freedom of choice for those in religious communities as those outside them today. Choosing life views may be the preferred option for families, for example, where spectral general education and the method of peer discussion are considered to be more important than the school education of their own religion. Similarly, there are families who, despite their own spiritual convictions, support the separation of the church and the state and consider that the teaching of their own religion belongs to the family or the congregation. In addition, most religions have a wide variety of doctrinal beliefs, which may help to obscure the usefulness of teaching their own religion. In these situations, families have two options in the present system: either they give in to putting their children into religious education, or at least one parent must resign from the church together with the child. Mr President! According to statistics, Finland is currently undergoing a major spiritual break-in. The proportion of Lutherans in the generation has fallen by about ten per cent, but there are also a considerable number of church members. Mobility between different religions and non-religiousness has increased. The beliefs of Finns also change. For example, according to a report from the Church Research Centre, a considerable number of members of the Lutheran Church say that they believe otherwise than the church teaches. In such a situation, it is wise for society to strive for structures that would rather support the spiritual search of people and not put artificial obstacles in it. The change of law I propose supports the spectral autonomy of families. It also facilitates the provision of consistent educational content to children, even when parents exchange religious statistics from one category to another in the middle of the school path. The first version of this initiative was written almost 15 years ago when my own firstborn began his first class. At that time it was brought to the attention of Parliament by the then MP Marjatta Stenius-Kaukonen. The initiative was supported at the time, but there were also some concerned speeches in the debate. Some then suspected that freedom of choice for families would lead to a radical decline in religious education in Finnish schools. My own assessment, however, is that such concern is exaggerated. The majority of religious families still consider it good that the school teaches their children the theological and cultural foundations of their own religion. However, freedom of choice for individual children and families can be important. With the amendment of the law, life views would receive a few more students and the church might lose a few less members when the child’s access to the teaching of life views would no longer depend on the religion of the parent. This is important, because freedom of religion is a reality where a minority can act in a different way from the majority.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u105	Mr President! I do not agree very often with Mr Kontula in this Chamber, but this time, at least cautiously, I agree. I have come across this issue with a few contacts. I myself am a member of the Lutheran congregation and have attended religious education, but as a teacher I also know of the cases that the family wanted to choose the philosophy of life and that did not succeed. The solution was that they resigned from the church. As Mr Kontula pointed out, if this could also be done in such a way that the choice of church membership could be made later, it could be quite supportive of the freedom of choice of families and children. All in all, this issue of religious education will be a major change in the future in Finland. At the moment, it already poses major challenges in many cities, with a large number of people from different denominations and, of course, costs arise from these teaching groups. Then, in small municipalities, the situation is that individual students do not receive the instruction of their own religion and then they are guided into this philosophy of life. In my opinion, this is an initiative worth exploring. I hope that the Committee on Education will hold a debate on this, and I hope that this will contribute to the debate on the direction in which religious education is taken in Finland and the answer to the question of how we will be able to guarantee good and high-quality religious education for all students in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u106	Mr President! Representative Kontula's bill introduces the Basic Education Act and the High School Act to be amended so that the freedom to choose whether the teaching of philosophy or religion applies to every student regardless of the membership of the religious community. According to the law in force, the organiser of education is obliged to provide religious education in accordance with the religious community registered in Finland, to which the majority of pupils belong. At the request of the guardian, pupils from or outside other religious communities may also take part in this teaching. Traditionally, in Finland, the majority of students belong to the Evangelical Lutheran congregation. The teaching examines the most important ethical guidelines of Christianity, the golden rule, the dual command of love and the Ten Commandments. Important elements are also human rights ethics, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and human dignity, respect for life and respect for nature. These are things that are probably good for everyone, regardless of religion or nonreligiousness, and good philosophy teaching for everyone. The teaching of Evangelical Lutheran religion in schools has changed a great deal as the world changes. According to the current curriculum of basic education, school religious education today includes a wide range of popular education in religious education, religions, and views in other parts of the world. Students are also encouraged to consider ethical issues firsthand and to encourage discussion about religions and the reasoning of their own views. But when I think of our Finland as a Christian country and many people think of themselves as Christians, we have the traditional things that we should continue to cherish. One: Christmas party feels pretty bad if there's no "Angel Heaven" there, or if there's no summer song at the Spring Festival. The school can also arrange religious occasions, such as services and religious openings, or include various religious services and also in many places graces. Such opportunities and deliveries are religious practices, and according to the Constitution no one is obliged to share in the practice of religion contrary to his conscience. The student’s guardian often announces whether the student attends these events or not. Mr President! Christian education is traditionally part of Finnish education, but there is no obligation to participate in it today. The teacher also has an obligation to teach other religion or philosophy if there are at least three students participating in their education. At the request of the guardian, a student of the religious community who is not taught by his own religion and who is not taking part in the religious teaching of the majority of the students is taught the philosophy of life. In these years and decades, the textbooks of the religion of children and young people have come to be followed. They provide information that guides a very broad view of life. I therefore believe that this bill is unnecessary, and I hope that it will not be adopted, and precisely because I, at least, consider it very important that we still have this Christian education from baby to retirement age in our country. But, of course, everyone has the right and the duty to take these initiatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u107	Mr President! Mr Kontula's legislative initiative to increase freedom of choice between religion and philosophy is, in my view, logical and worthy of support. In particular, it would improve the current situation, which can be interpreted as treating people unequally. Perhaps more than ever our time is marked by the need for knowledge and understanding related to various world views and religious viewpoints. Just as important is dialogue and understanding why others and we think as we think, like respect for the opinions and differences of others, not only between religions, within them, but also in relation to people who are not religious, for example, who are growing in Finland. I would therefore be prepared to take this thinking a little further and replace the teaching of both religion and philosophy in schools with a common public spectator, each of which would have the necessary resources to draw different conclusions as to what it would be his own personal spiritual, philosophical or religious path. This idea of moving to a common spectator would also work as part of a standard stripping process, because at the moment we are teaching a certain amount of overlapping things in different subjects. In addition, it is quite challenging to offer religious education to representatives of different religions in smaller localities, for example. A common spectator would make it possible to have a better dialogue. But since things tend to move gradually, I think that Mr Kontula's proposal is an excellent step in the right direction at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u108	Mr President! This legislative initiative by Mr Kontula is an excellent opportunity for discussion on how the role of religion in society will be structured in the future. I believe that the current curriculum policy is good and effective and that the objectives set out in the curriculum also work well in this pluralist society, where the number of religions and the number of different religionists are constantly increasing. The school’s teaching of religion is a broad basic penetration into and familiarizes with different religions, and there is a very broad knowledge of what kind of religions there are in the world. Some years ago, we gave up this recognition, which perhaps then brought to religious teaching the lukewarmness of not having to believe in something but rather describing the kind of religious systems the world has. Social researchers believe that in the future religious literacy is one of the most important things in terms of social peace, and I agree with them on this. I do not believe that this initiative by Mr Kontula will be successful, but I think it will be a good opening for debate, and I personally support the current system. But it must be recognised that this dialogue between different religions should also be given more frameworks and opportunities at school, so that then this Finnish way and the social peace that has been created through civilisation can still be achieved here in every way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u109	Mr President! The Kontula bill is indeed a good opening for discussion on the meaning, direction and also the arrangements for teaching. The provision of the law in force on three pupils and at the request of the guardian sometimes presents a very challenging challenge — especially for teachers who have many small schools that are very distant from each other. Finding a teacher is often the big challenge. It is not easy to find someone who is qualified but a master of mainstream religion in small hours. Thus, the organization of many different religious lessons is not only on the hands of the organizers of the education of big cities, but also in small municipalities there may be different religions in addition to life views. Teaching one group of students is not appropriate, neither for the student nor for the purpose of teaching, and it should be considered in this context whether we should change the law in the case of religious teaching to be based on an area of study rather than on an institution of education, or, alternatively, whether we should raise the number of pupils to a much higher level instead of three pupils. Undoubtedly, to return to this bill, I have in mind several situations in which guardians have had great difficulty in understanding the purpose of the law when, for example, they as members of the Evangelical Lutheran Church wanted their children to be taught the philosophy of life, but it has not been possible, whereas a non-church could have entered the teaching of religion even though there is a teaching of philosophy at school. One has a choice, the other doesn't. I hope that the debate on this issue will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u110	Mr President! When you consider why a child belonging to a church should take part in religious education, there is a UN treaty that guarantees that parents can teach their child according to their own faith, that is, that they have the right to ensure that children receive the instruction of the religion they themselves represent, which is their own beliefs. And on this basis, this Finnish school education in religious education begins to take shape. If the parents leave the church, then the child does not automatically resign from the church, but a separate notice must be made for the child under the age of 12, then the child’s own view on the matter is also asked for the child’s own opinion in the case of 12 to 14 years of age, and in the case of 15 to 17 years of age, the situation is that the child or young person may resign from the church himself and, in that case, the parents’ consent is sought again. In other words, this is the way in which it has been sought to ensure this parental right, based on UN treaties, to teach one's own convictions to one's own offspring, and that is where this setting begins. It is true that today in this society we need more of this reading of religions, and I have often thought that it is a little similar to language learning, that when you learn your native language and its structures, then it will be easier to learn foreign languages. And the teaching of one's own religion in Finland is based on the fact that in a way that is appropriate to one's own age, the basics of one's own religion become familiar, when it is easy to learn other religions of the world. In that sense, I consider this Finnish system to be good and I do not hope that it will be abandoned.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u111	Mr President! At the very beginning, I would say to Mr Mäkipää that this initiative does not now deal with Christmas angels or summer angels, but seeks to guarantee equal freedom of choice for religious people in relation to those families that do not belong to any religion or which belong to a religion so small that special arrangements are made for them. And I do not see that such an idea is contrary to the Christian tradition, but rather very in line with the main ideas of the key teachers of Christianity, from the very first free choice and its consequences. Representative Essayah highlighted the UN Treaty and the right of parents to teach their own religion to their children. This is a little different from the fact that parents are forced to put their children on the main course of their own religion at school. They are two different things and, first of all, no UN treaty requires that religion be taught in schools, and even less so there is a requirement that, contrary to the will of the parents, a particular religion should be taught to the child simply because the child and the parents happen to belong to a certain religious category. This is not the protection of any UN treaty. For this reason, I personally know convinced Christians, to whom the separation of faith and of their own congregation from secular authority is a matter of conviction and conscience, and who, despite the fact that they may believe in much the same way as our Lutheran church’s main line, find it problematic to put their children in the religious teaching provided by the government. On the other hand, I know families that belong to the church, but the fact that the child is given the highest possible quality of education is seen as more important than the fact that the school offers teaching of its own religion, and the priority is given to groups of life views because they are generally smaller in size and have the opportunity to have a peer-to-peer debate that our large school groups do not really have, especially in the basic education sector, offers and which, through it, teaches the skills of discussion which, for example, the work of a representative of the European Parliament will then be very much needed. I would say to Mrs Parviainen that I personally doubt that economic pressure alone will lead us to move on to a common spectator at some point. I don't think it's a bad development. A separate teaching of one's own religion is a little similar to that of society teaching us so that when children come to school, it would be asked whether parents are now members of the Coalition Party or of the Left Alliance, and then the children would be divided into groups on this basis and then, on the basis of Marx, the knowledge of Finnish society and those members of the Coalition, for example, Adam Smith. As Mr Laukkanen said, religious literacy will be an increasingly important skill in the future, and that is why I am glad that its weight has been improved both in all the curricula of its own religion and also in the philosophy of life, and I believe that this religious literacy would perhaps develop best if we were to have groups where children and young people from different religious backgrounds would talk to each other and get to know each other's precepts. However, as long as we are not yet very close to a common spectator, I think that the fact that children and families have equal freedom of choice is only logical and fair.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u112	Mr President! I would like to raise one more point here, and that is the fact that when a child comes to school he does not wonder what religion he may represent or support. Rather, he perhaps wonders what he believes in, and I think that this is a very important part of this debate, as Mrs Essayah well pointed out, that it is desired to guarantee the right of parents to decide what and what kind of religious education their children are in. In recent decades different world-view schools have been born in Finland, of which the most strongly grown are Christian schools, which are already 15, and new ones are emerging. The reason behind the birth of these schools is that this secular development is so rapid, and this need, as it were, to give up the belief of children or young people in something is there, to weaken it, and that is why these world - vision schools are born. I also think it is important that Finland is a free country and there is also room for them to be born.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u113	Mr President! I would also like to make sure that Mr Kontula did not have the wrong impression: I have certainly not understood the UN treaties so that they would oblige Finland to organise religious education, but that they give parents the right to teach children their beliefs in accordance with their own religion. And then again in Finland — when we then assume that we have religious education on offer — we have the assumption that, if people are members of a religious community in this country under religious freedom, then of course the assumption is that they want to teach those children according to their religion. And perhaps, in Finland, this, could be said, is somehow obscured by the nature of our people church. In your speech, too, you said that there are many people who say that I belong to a church but I do not believe as the church teaches, or something like that. Of course, on issues of this kind, one must consider whether membership in that community is the best way to carry out one’s own beliefs, if then it is much in conflict with the doctrines of that religious community. Of course, when it comes to this general teaching of ethics, which some see as the goal, religion is much more than just ethics. In mainstream religions, for example, it generally involves the concept of sin, the concept of death, the concept of mercy, salvation, a wide variety of concepts of this kind, could you say, religious literacy, and the way different religions express and teach these things, I think it is extremely important that the child learns the content of these concepts in its own familiar religious context. It will then be easier for him to learn foreign religions, for example, which we in Finnish school education very well highlight when, for example:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u114	If the representative wishes to continue, I would ask you to move on to the speaking room.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-15-ps-84.u115	Mr President! You don’t have to look at the last Church and City magazine to see that even within the mainstream of Christian Lutheranism there are many very different ideas about the fundamental questions of faith. Religion is always social, and that is why I understand that people can have a strong desire to belong to the church and to be members of their religious community, even though they disagree with its mainstream on a theological issue or at some fundamental point, and want to have a different education for their child — this is what these Christian schools are based on. I would now like to make sure that Mr Laukkanen defends the right of parents to decide: That is exactly what I am defending here, too, that parents should be able, in accordance with their convictions, to decide what is the subject matter that their children will receive. Now, for many parents, it is only on condition that he resigns from the church itself, that is, step out of his home congregation, his religious community, which may be a very valuable spiritual frame of reference for him, and I find that a rather high price — especially when all children, all families, do not have to pay the same price.
