ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I'm asking the ministers to move to the Council of Ministers. And now I would ask those representatives who wish to ask a question to one of the ministers present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u2	First question, Congressman Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u3	Madam President! Today it is nice to start Question Time when we hear that the government cancels its decision to cut the veteran front. During the last Question Time, we called for the government to reverse the Veterans cuts. Now the government has acted wisely and listened to the opposition. Madam President! Today, however, we want to raise the concerns of 250,000 people with type 2 diabetes. The government is cutting the reimbursement of these people’s medicines so that the cost of medicines may rise at its worst by up to 500 euros a year. The majority of diabetics are over 65 years of age. Your surgery is most painfully targeted at people with low incomes, older people and sick people. Even before this operation, their situation is in many ways unreasonable and difficult. I would like to ask Mr Mattila: would it not be wise for you to reconsider your proposal and cancel the medical replacement surgery for people with diabetes?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u4	Mr President! Firstly, what the representative has raised is that the government has withdrawn its proposal: It hasn't been canceled. It has been discussed in Parliament, whose decisions I greatly appreciate, and it has been jointly decided here. The pharmaceutical savings have now been made, and here, as you described, the compensation for type two diabetes medicines has been changed so that it is in line with the medicines for cardiovascular diseases and still retains the 65% compensation. It is true that there may be an increase in pharmaceutical costs for some, but it is also true that we still have a cap on medicines, and that will be met when the cost of medicines rises to a certain level. In addition, the government is committed to implementing a rational drug treatment program, and yes, I also encourage you to look for and develop, for example, non-pharmaceutical treatment. I'm sure it'll be a good help for type two diabetics as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u6	Madam President! You have also justified this cut with the savings of central government finances. If patients are not economically able to treat their disease, some patients will be switched to insulin therapy, which will be fully replaced. On the other hand, there is also a high risk that untreated diabetes leads to adjunctive diseases such as coronary artery disease, amputation or kidney disease. The cost of these diseases is many times higher than the cost of treating diabetes. Minister Mattila, are you aware that untreated diabetes is the most expensive disease in Finland? On the basis of the various experts, including Kela, the cuts you have now presented will become even more expensive for society. Good diabetes treatment is the most affordable. Do you really think that even if this does not bring savings to society and the state, you still refuse to assess your decision to operate?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u7	Mr President! As a minister, I am committed to bringing these budget laws, the savings laws, to this Parliament. As Minister, I am committed to the work of the government in balancing the problems of public finances. I believe that all diseases must be treated well, including type two diabetes, and many diseases will be costly. Above all, it is inhuman suffering, all diseases, not just type two diabetes. And so, I still believe that we should also commit ourselves to the development of rational medical treatment, thereby also finding treatment for type two diabetes. And I would like to point out that the 65% compensation still remains here, and I would also like to point out that there is still a 65% compensation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u8	Mr President! As you said, Minister Mattila, there are many associated diseases, such as coronary artery disease, and there are also rheumatism and hypertension in these patients, and these are in the lower compensation category. This is real. When we look at this reform — but now that we know that your savings are now being paid to the most affected people and to the most low-income people — we cannot at this point justify the fact that even diabetics must now be compensated lower, i.e. transferred from 100% of the compensation to 65% of the compensation? They already have other drug costs, they have to take blood pressure medicines, many have anti-rheumatic drugs, and they are older and need a lot of services. Could this not now be something that the Minister would take and ask us to withdraw so that we do not have to?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u9	Mr President! The chairman of the committee knows that the committee will then take wise decisions, and I appreciate the work of this Parliament. But, as I mentioned, those who are the most ill, those who use the most drugs are also covered by the support schemes. We have a medical roof, we have income support. They haven't been operated on. Furthermore, we must also look at this system of reimbursement of medicines in a comprehensive way and we are continuing to do so in the Ministry at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u10	Mr President! The government plans to abolish excise duties on sweets and ice cream from the beginning of next year. The abolition of the tax will result in a tax loss of more than EUR 100 million per year for the State, which will be covered by other means, including benefit cuts for disadvantaged people. This is almost the same loss of income as these future cuts in pharmaceutical expenditure, which are indeed reducing the reimbursement of medicines, especially for diabetics. In fact, the government, by its actions, increases the use of candy and ice cream and pays for the tax deficit in diabetics. This is quite difficult to understand, especially since any health problems related to tooth decay, obesity, cardiovascular diseases and diabetes are also threatening to increase. Would it not be sensible to increase these taxes on unhealthy foods while at the same time cost-effectively promoting health and reducing socio-economic health inequalities? Would it not be better to continue to levy this tax on candy and ice cream and leave these reimbursements for diabetics unchanged?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u11	Mr President! That is a very good question. We know here that the abolition of this tax on sweets and candy is the result of the European Union, but I have already said here last time that we will continue to find out in the Ministry of Finance whether we will find a tax that is a health-based tax based on welfare. These matters have already been clarified by my predecessors — including Mrs Rinne, I am sure she is familiar with them — and this is certainly not easy. But it would be very sensible if we were able to tax unhealthy foods, candy and lemonade in a sensible way. We are trying to find a solution to this, but we are living in the legal environment of the European Union, and it obliges and limits us on this issue, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u12	Mr President! Like the questioner, it is very difficult for me to understand this abolition of the sugar tax — even in this case, it was not very good for the EU. But when it comes to this kind of health-based, health-seeking taxation, I do think it should be looked for.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u13	Madam President! If it is difficult for the minister to understand the abolition of the sweet tax, then why on earth are you doing it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u14	Mr President! This speech was quite a tune-up because you know quite well that it was not because of the decisions of this government, but because of EU legislation, and those decisions have already been taken in the past. And as I have already said, we will still find out, even though the task is difficult, how we could create this kind of health-related tax that would have public health implications. That is quite clear, I have already told you this here last week, I repeat it again and I will say once again that this is not an easy task, because it is very difficult to create a health-related tax that treats different foods equally, because it is not just the definition of sugar and its use in different foods that is simple from a fiscal point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u15	Mr President! It is true that, because of EU regulations, a sweets tax such as the one currently in place is no longer possible, but I believe that we can build a health-based added sugar tax, which is used in many other EU countries, and that is something that needs to be done. But, Mr President, in the treatment of diabetes, the calculation of the special compensation for non-insulin medicines is an excessively punitive means of saving diabetics. Reducing the level of reimbursement for diabetes medicines is not acceptable either socially, therapeuticly or economically. When implemented, the presentation should increase health inequalities by dividing people with diabetes into those who can afford the medicines they need and those who cannot afford them. Insulin treatment is not the best treatment for all diabetics. And when a medicine is chosen not on therapeutic but economic grounds, it may result in a large additional bill for inadequate treatment. Do you really believe that this proposal will at least achieve the desired savings?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u16	Yes, to begin with this question of sweet tax: certainly no one in this House is against any sweet tax, but this is EU legislation that we must comply with. And certainly no one in this government is opposed to the fact that we cannot develop a health-based tax system. And as far as this type 2 diabetes is concerned, I still stress that the medicines will remain in the 65 - percent substitution category there. Of course, the doctor is responsible for the actual drug decisions, the medication. I would stress that patients are still entitled to other subsidies. Of course, all legislation involves monitoring. This overall development of drug treatment is currently being prepared by the STM.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u17	Mr President! It is true that the most important thing with regard to the prevention of changes in the life of diabetes is that there is maximum metabolic control, that sugar is at the optimal level at all times. Finland has experience of saving significantly, tens of millions a year, the costs of the national economy, by developing self-care for citizens, by guiding them on how to achieve this goal better. How do you see, Minister Mattila, that citizens could be better helped to manage themselves better and thus become more effective in order to reduce their life complications?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u18	Madam President! First of all, in response to the fact that life-styles certainly matter, and especially when we are on the verge of reform, the reform of health promotion and social well-being is on the way, it must take account of the promotion of healthy lifestyles, and we have already planned the so-called coefficient of well-being and health promotion, the coefficient of state participation which would then come to the municipalities and regions, which will then transfer the work of health promotion to the municipalities. The life-style issues you have mentioned will certainly be raised in that programme of rational medical treatment, which is under work at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u19	Madam President! Impairment of the reimbursement of antidiabetic medicines would not, according to expert advice, result in savings. The plan puts at risk the good treatment results and patient safety achieved in the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Increases in the burden of payment may lead to inadequate medical treatment and poor metabolic control, especially in low-income diabetics, who are also unnecessarily switched to more expensive insulin. So I ask: is this bill intended to take a conscious risk of worsening the health of diabetics?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u20	Mr President! This is the result of careful drafting of the law, and indeed this proposal has been made to reduce the compensation from 100% to 65%. I also believe in Finnish high-quality medical treatment, nursing, patient follow-up and then also the non-pharmaceutical treatment that is being developed. Of course, the risks must be assessed, and then, of course, Parliament will also do so when it deals with this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u21	Madam President! Minister Mattila, I would like to emphasise once again that we have different research data that these reimbursements for diabetes do not bring savings to society. On the contrary, there is a risk that the reimbursement of diabetes will result in additional costs for society. So we are taking a conscious risk that if people do not have the opportunity to treat diabetes, the disease in these people will increase and become more difficult. They will have to use more and more health care services to treat diabetes and other diseases. They also have to use various medicines to treat their various diseases. Your proposal, Minister, has no real basis and no basis. Do you genuinely believe that you are moving this bill forward, which, according to all estimates, will only increase the cost of society? Why don't you cancel your bill?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u22	Mr President! You must be familiar with this matter and you are an experienced Member of Parliament, and here in Parliament there is a group on diabetes. We also have other groups, low-income users, who are in lower pay categories, and we must also worry about them and then worry about this whole economy. But, as I said, we still have other support schemes, there is still a cap on medicines — it has not been addressed, on the contrary, the level of the cap on medicines has fallen — we have income support. I do not mean that I would like to be in any way involved in bringing people into other support schemes, but that we have social safety nets for the low-income.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u23	Next question, Mr Karimäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u24	Mr President! It is an honour for Finland to be President of the Arctic Council next year. It obliges the protection of sensitive nature and the establishment of limits on the use of natural resources. Much of the ships use heavy fuel oil as fuel. In the Arctic, the risk of an oil spill is high. Heavy fuel oil is toxic and sticky, and cleaning it is almost impossible in the Arctic, where it threatens sensitive nature. The use of heavy fuel oil in the South Pole is prohibited. Minister Soini, you have said that the disadvantages caused by black coal must be effectively prevented. Black coal, which is produced by burning heavy fuel oil, also accelerates climate change. Will you, Minister Soini, as President of the Arctic Council be pushing for a ban on the use of heavy fuel oil in the Arctic?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u25	Madam President! It's the most up-to-date thing. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has published such a work on Arctic Coverage, and we are seriously preparing for this future EU Presidency. We also have environmental, climate, transport and the affairs of indigenous peoples as key priorities. It is very important that we build such an entity that the Arctic regions can also live, protect not only nature but also people and not just economic exploitation. As a detail, I'm not taking a stand on that yet. Finland will build its Arctic Presidency in a responsible way. We've worked very hard with the United States, and we're already working on plans.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u26	And now I ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u27	Mr President! After all, the USA and Canada have already expressed their concern at the use of heavy fuel oil in the IMO. In order to combat climate change, four fifths of the known fossil resources must be left in the soil, so it is madness to promote the introduction and exploration of new fossil fuels in the Arctic. On the other hand, sensitive nature also requires internationally agreed nature reserves — fish stocks, birds, walrus, whales. By the way, if we allow the Arctic ice to melt and climate change to fall out of control, our children and their children will lose the conditions for a good life on this planet. How does Finland intend to take concrete account of the fight against climate change and nature conservation in a sensitive area in this programme of its Presidency?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u28	Madam President! This Presidency of the Arctic Council is a great opportunity for Finland, because the Arctic Council includes the Nordic countries and, in addition, the United States, Russia and Canada. We are now in such a group that we really can make a difference, and our objective is that all these countries should be fully involved in this work — and only through this cooperation can we achieve sustainable solutions that matter. Of course, Finland promotes sustainable development, takes into account biodiversity, takes into account indigenous peoples, but also sees the economic potential that can be created through communications and transport connections, for example. This is also an employment issue for us. We too live across the Arctic Circle, and there must be the right to live, live, work and get along.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u29	Mr President! The Arctic region is the heart of our climate system in many ways. The melting of Arctic ice can affect the acidification of the sea, which has already increased. It affects biodiversity. It can also affect ice streams and, of course, the melting of glaciers in Greenland is threatening to cause sea levels to rise. And all these things can be influenced by the introduction of new, clean environmental technologies, i.e. always knowing the limits of nature's carrying capacity and finding solutions that contribute to the fight against climate change and at least do not cause it. I therefore hope that Finland, as President of the Arctic Council, will recognise these opportunities both in the transport sector and in the environmental sector. We have invested in clean technology in the shipbuilding industry. We have world-class research in this area. I ask the Minister for Transport and the Minister for the Environment: how do you intend, during the Council Presidency, to promote the protection of sensitive areas and clean transport in the Arctic and the prevention of oil accidents?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u30	Mr President! This is a very topical issue, because there is an IMO meeting this week, which deals, among other things, with this particular issue. Under the heading 'Other topical issues', environmental organisations have also submitted a proposal on whether consideration could be given to assessing the ban on the use and/or transport of heavy fuel in the Arctic. There is a population in the Arctic which is currently still in need of heavy fuel for energy, and that is why there has been a debate about whether we can ban transport, but there is, of course, a serious need to go through the ban on the use of ships at this point. On Friday, Finland will adopt a positive position on the proposal of environmental organisations and will also take this issue up and promote it in this future period as well, and then it can also be taken forward during the Presidency of the Council.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u31	Mr President! All in all, environmental issues will be very heavy on the agenda when Finland takes over the presidency of the Arctic Council. We in the government have decided that we will also organise a meeting of the Environment Ministers during that Presidency. What are the concrete advances we are still discussing within the government and with other countries? This possible ban on the use of heavy fuel oil is certainly a very important initiative, because not only will it reduce the emissions of particulate matter, the accumulation of black coal in the Arctic, but it will also prevent this extremely persistent substance, in the event of an accident, from making life difficult for sensitive nature for a long time, and recovery will be really slow. So there are many reasons why we should try to limit the use of heavy fuel oil, but concrete progress during that presidency and our proposals will be defined a little later.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u32	Mr President! Unfortunately, as a person living north of the Arctic Circle, it seems that the Arctic is sinking and the government is not interested in them. There are numerous examples of this. Among other things, the Barents Centre, which has increased the visibility of Finland in the Barents region, has developed transport connections and opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises, no longer received further funding for its activities. The Arctic Information Centre for Rovaniemi is also in the wind, because there is currently no political pressure on it. The Government recently updated the Arctic Strategy, but it also lacks financial resources. Arctic policy requires a credible and sufficiently effective project that Finland can promote when it embarks on this Presidency. Such a project could be a railway line to the Arctic Ocean. The track would benefit the domestic forestry and extractive industries and the Norwegian fishing industry. This would also create great new opportunities for tourism.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u33	Mr President! The Arctic is one of the most important projects when we look at Finland’s logistical position as a whole. And once Finland has signed a letter of intent to clear the Tallinn tunnel, in the same context it will also inevitably mean that the ice-sea track will have to be cleared at one end in a certain period of time. From this point of view, from a logistical point of view, we want to look at Finland as a whole, and we do not currently have that connection to the Arctic Ocean, and the rail link there would be a natural way to resolve the issue. In other words, we view this whole as part of a study that we have the liquidators also doing, in which we see what kind of infrastructure Finland should have in 2050 and before that in different periods. This study will be completed in March and will be done by Esko Aho, Lauri Lyly and Inka Mero. It will also be possible to return to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u34	Mr President! In time, significant conservation agreements were reached in Antarctica. Now similar protected areas are also being planned here in the north, in the Arctic region. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment and why not the Minister for Foreign Affairs: at what point are these issues at present in order to establish these large protected areas here, too, in the Arctic Ocean?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u35	Mr President! Just as the questioner asked, it would certainly be important to reach an international agreement on marine protection areas in that Arctic region as well. Finland has been pursuing this for a long time and consistently in various fora. Unfortunately, at this point, the attitude of the other Nordic countries is a little more lax, and I will come to the meeting of the Environment Ministers next week, for example. In Copenhagen, to raise this issue, what other Nordic countries think would be the appropriate forum and way to promote what is important. I believe that, in the end, we will find the right route, which could then be agreed by the countries of the Arctic, which Mr Soini has already mentioned here. But let's see what the right channel is for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u36	Madam President! Mr Pertti Salolainen, Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, you have a long career as a responsible environmental person, as one who also takes into account the co-existence of nature and industry. It is quite clear that, apart from the fact that Finland will invest in these matters between the Nordic countries, as Minister Tiilikainen said, we now have a thousand-dollar place here with the United States, Canada and Russia to achieve these. We need a consensus on this, and I am ready and the government is ready to promote it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u37	Mr President! Mr Tiilikainen has already pointed out the environmental reasons for banning heavy fuel oil in the Arctic region. I would simply add that the reduction of black coal or soot emissions is one of the fastest and cheapest ways to curb the acceleration of climate change and, in that respect, to make it easier for the rest of the population to do what is necessary to protect the climate. I would ask: Does the government now understand this properly, and is the government going to seize this opportunity? For Finland, this is a win-win issue for the economy and the environment, because it is already visible that the tightening of environmental requirements for shipping is one of the factors that has improved the competitiveness and position of the Finnish maritime industry and brought us new orders. And does the government intend to seize the opportunity that the United States and Canada have also promoted within the International Maritime Organisation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u38	Madam President! This black carbon, or soot, we already have in the programme, and it comes mainly from power plants, and Finnish technology is able to solve these problems so that it does not spread to sensitive areas and thus contribute to the melting of glaciers, for example. This is a typical win-win situation where Finnish technology can solve painful, international problems, and the government will do everything in its power to keep these things on the agenda and also to find concrete paths to solve these issues with Finnish technology.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u39	Next question, Congressman Uotila.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u40	Madam President! I was once a member of a working group that prepared the law on a citizens' initiative. The citizens' initiative is an important reform to improve democracy and empower citizens. For example, more than 63,000 citizens signed a citizens' initiative before Parliament to ban zero-hour contracts. The initiative aims to improve the position of those working in the Zero Hours Agreement in a number of ways. Prime Minister, you said on Sunday, during the Prime Minister's interview with the radio, that you have not heard anyone present a law banning zero-hour contracts and that no one has an interest in banning zero-hour contracts. Prime Minister, I consider this forgetting of the citizens' initiative in front of a large audience of listeners to be an insult to the more than 63,000 citizens who have signed this bill in order to ban the zero agreements. How have you missed such a popular movement,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u41	Madam President! That question of the Prime Minister's interview was about the cooperation and discussions between the social partners and the government, which I referred to. In other words, as part of this active labour market policy, we are also raising the issue of zero-hour contracts, at the request of the social partners. In those discussions, there was no demand for them to be completely banned, but it was seen that in some situations they were very effective. But there are plenty of shortcomings in these rules that the government has promised to go through in the work of the working group and find a clear solution to them. Of course, I am aware of the citizens' initiative and I did not refer to it in any way in my reply to the Prime Minister's interview.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u42	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u43	Mr President! It is a good thing that you replied that way, Prime Minister, because many of the people behind this citizens' initiative have really wondered about your opinion in the Prime Minister's interview class. In that debate, efforts were made to improve the position of those working under zero-hour contracts, but they are still becoming quite modest. We have just received Statistics Finland’s estimate that 660,000 Finnish citizens live below the EU poverty line in Finland, or 12% of the population. There are certainly those there who have to work so little hours, who get so little hours worked and paid that they fall below the poverty line. Now, Prime Minister and other ministers, tell us what concrete steps you intend to take, and quickly, to improve the position of these people in their short-term and zero-hour contracts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u44	Madam President! We have promised fair rules for zero-hour contracts, and I have met with the citizens' initiative makers. There has been a proper discussion with them. We have also had a debate with the Chairman of the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities on this. We all agree that the rules of the game are needed. I know that this citizens' initiative is based on the fact that there is an 18-hour limit and a proposal for it, and I know that there is a proposal to ban these zero-hour contracts, but the government has never spoken of such a thing, and our understanding is that we are looking for fair rules of play which also enable us to provide work. I understand that there is a good consensus on this, at least with the chairman of the committee — yesterday we had this debate — that this is the view, and we are also helping the committee, that we have an official who is always communicating on this issue. The government has promised these rules of the game, and the rules of the game will come.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u45	Mr President! The reason why this initiative has gone all the way to Parliament is that it is precisely the lack of rules that cause very serious problems in the Finnish labour market at the moment, including problems in the everyday lives of many temporary workers. The problems of zero-hour contracts are not only related to qualifying systems, which have been talked about quite a bit in public, but also to the fact that the employer has the possibility, for example, of completely circumventing statutory employment security in situations where there is disagreement between the employer and the employee. People working on zero-hour contracts are very often also temporary workers whose income is very low due to the lack of working hours. I think it is great if the government has now realised that better rules of play are needed, but I still missed the concrete, that is, if this minimum working time of 18 hours is not enough, what are the concrete rules of the game,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u46	Madam President! What was specifically discussed in this debate with the social partners was, for example, a situation like this when a zero-hour contract has not come to the employee for a long time and the worker wants to terminate the contract which has not in practice led him to work. This results in a degree of toughness in that earnings-related unemployment benefit, and this is a clear flaw, and this is where everyone at the table was nodding. So I understand that there are concrete issues here where progress can be made, but of course the government has not prepared an agenda for the working group, in which the result must be achieved, but the working group will go through the shortcomings and then the government will act in accordance with the outcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u47	Mr President! Just as Minister Lindström said, this is becoming the rules of the game, and it is an extremely important issue — I refer to the Prime Minister’s speech that these shortcomings are being corrected. But this matter itself, the zero-hour contracts, may not be all that bad when it allows the employee to use more than one employer. In a situation like this,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u48	Madam President! In my first speech, I tried to open up what it means to create rules of the game. This means, on the one hand, what the Prime Minister also referred to, that there is a common concern about this perceived injustice, but, on the other hand, what Mr Turunen said must leave room for the possibility that we may not build a system that prevents employment. That's the starting point for building these rules of the game. This is the point: not to hinder employment, but to build the rules of the game.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u49	Mr President! It is true that, in every situation, a zero treaty is not a bad thing, but it is difficult to imagine what would be the situation in which it actually has added value. We have, for example, staff agencies that all have zero-hour contracts, and then, with the same job description, staff agencies where no one needs zero-hour contracts. When we know that we have a system that will certainly harm some but will not benefit anyone in particular, why can we not ban such a system? A significant proportion of people working on zero-hour contracts have long worked full-time working hours. Nevertheless, they do not have the possibility of getting sick, for example, in the fear that the hours of work will stop there. If the employer has zero hours to offer, why agree on employment contracts at all?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u50	Madam President! This is about the fact that there may be people who voluntarily declare that they want this kind of zero hour contract in the life situation where they are. Should we stop it? I don't think so. Since we already have an enormous amount of unemployment in this country, why should we build a system that would prevent it? I am not defending it in any way, as a rule there have been a lot of problems — I am referring here to this unfair system of roughness — but we are now building the rules of the game, and I think that we are going to take a big step forward. Let us hope that everyone has an agreement on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u51	Next question, Congressman Nylander.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u52	Värderade Talman! Svenska riksdagsgrupen har länge effecterlyst en reform av familedigheterna och hemvårdsstödet, och vi har nu i vår alternativa budget presentationat ett konkret förslag till hemetsreform som även innehåller fyra timmar avgiftsfri småbarnspedagogik för barn över treår.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u53	Madam President! This is a reform which, for example, is generally the focus of the debate on home care support alone. That is not what it must be about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u56	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u57	Mr President! We all know the disadvantages and negative effects of the current model, for example, on equality, on the wage and pension development of women, etc. If the government is not going to take up this reform work this season, then I wonder how you are going to deal with these shortcomings. Is this the case that the government is now discussing the different models for three years, two and a half years, what is left here, and is not doing any reform work? I would also like to ask Minister Grahn-Laasonen: is it possible, now that the government is discussing models, to link this early childhood education to this whole? That would be extremely important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u58	There were questions in more than one direction. — — — — Secretary Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u59	Mr President! I think it is very important that there is a wide-ranging debate on the reform of the family leave system, and it is quite certain that the parties have different views on what kind of reform is needed and on what timetable it can take. I also consider it essential that early childhood education and its development be closely linked to this debate. The good times are now in the sense that the foundations of early childhood education plans have just been adopted in the Finnish National Board of Education, which offers a great opportunity to strengthen the pedagogy of early childhood education and improve its quality. In addition, a debate is needed on how to increase the level of participation in early childhood education by reducing exclusion, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u60	Madam President! The support for home care has been precisely what has made it possible for families to have freedom of choice, and such different quota models, 6+6+6 and so on, are those which restrict that freedom of choice for families. The difference in pay between women and men in the labour market is a fact and contributes to women using home care support more than men. I would have asked: in what way does the government intend to compensate for these different costs of parental leave in women-dominated sectors? I think it is wrong that attempts are being made to deal with this issue through the back door, as it were, by restricting the real freedom of choice for families. Let families make these decisions there at the kitchen table and not take decisions for them from here. But it is important that women-dominated sectors alone do not have to bear the cost burden of these parental leave. What is the government trying to do about this and perhaps has already done?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u61	Madam President! The Government and hence the Parliament have adopted a government proposal in which employers will receive a lump sum of EUR 2500 to compensate this difference in the costs of maternity and parenthood specifically to the employer. This has been done, this is the letter of the law, and the euro is also there. Secondly, the questions raised by Mr Nylander and Mr Essayah: There are many different points of view on the same subject. I hope that, when this debate continues to take place with certainty and has these various negative aspects in relation to equality, in relation to the pension accumulation, the interests of parenthood and of the child will always be remembered. For example, the debate on home care support must be understood, but it must also be borne in mind that we have in the past established the system as part of our day care system and, as we now have to say, the early childhood education system. This aspect also has a major impact on how to approach this whole
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u62	Madam President! The child must have the right to care and care for both parents — where they exist. It is also the right of the father and it is the right of the mother: to be at home with the child and to take care of the child. During the last term of government, the government made a significant improvement: two weeks more earmarked parental leave for the father came and the system was made more flexible so that it could be used flexibly until the child was two years old. This has added to the fact that fathers use parental leave — it has been used, among other things, by many MPs already during this period. If you look at the part that is freely selectable between parents, then only 3% of it is used by fathers, 97% by mothers, and now my question is: if you do not achieve the overall reform, should we not at least make small steps of the same kind?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u63	Madam President! Thanks to the previous government for making it possible were added to freedom of choice. These same figures can be seen in such a way that the measures taken at the time have added to the
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u66	Mr President! Next Monday's women's day. It is a pay day for women, which shows that the pay gap between women and men remains unacceptable at 17%. If you compare the annual income of women and men, you should hear it so that the pay for women ends at the end of October. Is this right? Of course, this is by no means right. Women and men deserve the same salary, and this needs to be corrected. This needs to be remedied through structural measures to dismantle the gender structures of the labour market, to divide it into the work of women and men, and this must also be broken down by reforming family leave. Dear government, your $2,500 to the mother's employer is not going to do anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u67	Madam President! What a beautiful talk about something that this government has received positive feedback on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u70	Madam President! When talking about reforming family leave, it is important to remember that we have very different families. It is also very important for this diversity to be taken into account in the future model, and I hope that preparations will proceed as quickly as possible. At the same time, at this point, it is important to look at the various groups today, here and now. One glaring point in our legislation at the moment is the fathers who take care of the child alone at home. At present, these fathers are not entitled to any form of parental leave or any kind of benefits, because that parenthood and benefits are linked to the mother. Last week I spoke to a father who is currently caring for a four-month-old daughter without any support system. He has gone through the process three times with Kela, and this is the interpretation of the law at the moment. Because of the circumstances, the mother does not participate in the care of the child in any way. The father did not want to give the child an adoption or away, so he wanted to take responsibility for his own parenting, but at the moment he is doing it entirely on his own support network. I would like to ask the government: how quickly can we tackle this flagrant mishap and make a change? This existed in connection with the Associated Laws, the Marriage Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u71	Madam President! Mr Toivola raised the issue that is on the desk, it is in preparation. What is the government's proposal, its final content, I am not yet able to give an answer today, here and now. But what you are raising here is an indication of the need we have, among other things, for legislative changes. The diversity of families is an issue that does not sufficiently exist in the current legislation, but this work is being done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u72	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! The EUR 2500 mentioned by Minister Ruhula is certainly a good thing, but it is an easy solution, a Band-Aid when you do not dare or want to tackle structural problems. The government has a target of reaching the employment rate of 78%. Especially with regard to women, we are far from achieving this objective. By comparing us with other Nordic countries, the situation is particularly bad. Is it really the case that the government programme is interpreted in such a mechanical way that, since it does not contain this reform separately, there is no courage or desire to seize it, even though there has been an commendable attempt to raise the issue within the government? Would it not now be appropriate to consider the Government Programme strategically and apply it according to the seriousness of the situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u73	Madam President! The representative takes this whole — family leave, equality, the child’s advantage as part of early childhood education, home care support, the core of the early childhood education system — out of one corner. This government has decided in its Government Programme on 26 key projects to achieve a level of family services for our families with children so that child protection can be better addressed, that we can achieve a better level of this baby-time, youth-time service. We're investing in this. Secondly, the representative approaches the matter in such a way that by moving one corner the whole issue is resolved. For example, that model of yours, where this question began: it is not quite free, and something must become someone who also finances these good changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u75	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 22/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Let us move on to the general debate, the first speaker is Mr Haatainen, the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u76	Madam President! There is a government proposal for a law amending the Health Insurance Act. This proposal concerns a reduction in employers' social security contributions. Between 2017 and 2019 they will be reduced by about 1 percentage point each year. In 2020 the reduction will be 0.58 percentage points and will then remain permanent. These discounts are not cumulative but relate to each year at a time. This is part of the competitiveness pact concluded by the central labour market organisations. In the period 2017-2019, the health insurance fund will create an annual deficit of between EUR 706 million and EUR 882 million due to the reduction in this contribution and from 2020 onwards of EUR 541 million, which will be replaced by State resources. The Committee is in favour of the government proposing a separate solution to compensate for the increase in this burden of payment also for employees and entrepreneurs who do not pay state or municipal taxes on their income and therefore do not receive tax compensation. Instead of taxation, the reimbursement is made on the health insurance side so that less than EUR 14000 per year is entirely exempt from paying the sickness insurance daily allowance. Thus, increases in earnings-related pension and unemployment insurance contributions do not reduce the net income of those receiving low employment and entrepreneurial income. As a result of this exemption, the State contribution to health insurance will be increased by EUR 63 million. Now, however, only EUR 30 million has been earmarked for compensation in the draft budget for 2017, but according to a report received by the committee, the budget will be supplemented by a supplementary government proposal and additional funding of EUR 33 million will be allocated. The committee accepts this form of compensation, but at the same time the committee points out that compensation through health insurance is now in conflict with the actual principle of equivalence of contributions and benefits. In addition, this model may be an incentive trap for EUR 14000 per year, but, according to the opinions received by the committee, this incentive effect is estimated to be small in practice. The committee also proposes that Article 5 of the draft law should be deleted as unnecessary. This report contains two objections. One is an objection with a rejection motion and the other is an objection with a mere statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u77	Mr President! This government proposal is intended to compensate low-income wage earners for those tax reductions made to compensate for the competitiveness pact. It was originally estimated that 30 million would be enough for this, but in the end the compensation will probably rise to that EUR 63 million, as the chairman of the committee said just now. However, this compensation does not seem to be sufficient, but with a monthly income of less than EUR 1000, the purchasing power of employees is estimated to fall, and the corresponding increase in purchasing power is the largest percentage when the monthly income exceeds EUR 7500 per month. So now the good people are going to benefit more. These estimates are, of course, based on forecasts and it would be important and fair for the impact to be further assessed when the proposed changes to health insurance and taxation have entered into force. I would have liked the minister to have been here to answer whether or not such an assessment is going to be made. In the referral debate, the Government parties also suggested that this package would target beneficiaries of benefits. This is not the case; on the contrary, the government also cuts the national pension index by 0.85% and, in fact, more, because the index is also frozen at this lower level.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u78	Madam President! Under the Competitiveness Pact, employers' employment pension and unemployment insurance contributions are transferred to employees. The increase in the contribution burden of employees is taken into account in taxation as deductions. Tax breaks can safeguard the purchasing power of employees and, at the same time, maintain domestic demand. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health is in favour of the government proposing a separate solution to compensate for the increase in the burden of payments also for employees and entrepreneurs who do not pay state or municipal taxes on their income and therefore do not receive compensation through taxation. Instead of taxation, the reimbursement is made on the health insurance side so that less than EUR 14000 per year is entirely exempt from paying the sickness insurance daily allowance. Thus, increases in earnings-related pension and unemployment insurance contributions do not reduce the net income of those receiving low employment or entrepreneurial income. As a result of this exemption, the State contribution to health insurance will be increased by EUR 63 million. In the draft budget for 2017, EUR 30 million has been earmarked for compensation, and the additional government proposal is intended to allocate an additional EUR 33 million to health insurance. According to a report received by the committee, the State contribution required by the compensation is not to be financed by new cuts in social security, and this is still an important issue to be repeated here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u79	Mr President! The basic thing about this government proposal is that it calculates the secondary costs of employment. This is in the right sense that it is expensive to employ in Finland — not because wages are impossible to compare internationally, but because labour costs are ancillary. Any minor change in side costs may have a positive impact on employment and it would be particularly desirable for it to have an impact on employment in the export industry. The committee has tabled amendments and clarifications to the original proposal, which is a good thing, since it is the committee's task, after consulting the experts, to make a final proposal. These compensations for low-income people are a particularly positive sign in this proposal. The fundamental issue on which we hope Parliament will be united with the government is that there is a need for more employers in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u80	Madam President! The chairman of the committee presented the committee's report on this matter and, for my part, I would now like to express an objection from the Socialists and the Greens. We have tabled an objection to this, which will then be the final proposal at the next reading. The competitiveness agreement will shift the burden of employers' contributions to employees while at the same time reducing the tax burden on employees. Since it is not possible to allocate tax reductions to employees who do not pay central or municipal taxes on their income, the Government proposes a reduction of EUR 63 million in the daily allowance fee for those receiving low wage income to compensate for the decrease in net income resulting from increases in contributions under the Competitiveness Agreement. The Board of Directors proposes that those who earn less than EUR 14000 a year will not be charged the sickness insurance allowance. It is estimated that this will compensate for the increase in the contribution burden for those who earn less than EUR 14000 per year as a result of the Competitiveness Pact. However, compensation does not seem to be sufficient, but the purchasing power of employees will be reduced by less than EUR 1000 per month, according to some estimates. Correspondingly, the increase in purchasing power is the largest in percentage terms when monthly income exceeds EUR 7500 per month. All calculations are based on forecasts at this stage, so in order to ensure fairness, the impact should be assessed more closely when all proposed changes to health insurance and taxation have entered into force. Our opinion proposal is that Parliament requires that the impact of the proposal on the purchasing power of low-income employees be reassessed at the latest at the beginning of 2017 and that the necessary changes be made so that the benefit corresponding to tax reductions is also allocated to low-income employees. In this connection, I would also like to say that the committee was informed and understood that this compensation of EUR 33 million will be implemented in the amending budget, and according to our view, which also relates to this objection, it is absolutely essential that the government does not make additional cuts in social security to compensate for this additional cost of EUR 33 million in its future budget. In addition to this, I would also like to say that it has been a real pity, however, that in many speeches, both ministers and government parties, the impression has been given that the government would allocate EUR 30 million to the most low-income people who depend on social security. When we have asked it on several occasions, we have been given circular answers, the interpretation of which has clearly implied that these would target people on social security, but now this bill shows that this is not the case, but that this is the case for employees and entrepreneurs who earn less than EUR 14,000 a year. For this reason, it must be said whether it could even be said that a little misconception or misunderstanding has been shown to Parliament in this regard, and we do not consider it to be fair or acceptable in any way. But in that respect this relates to the Kiky agreement and we accept this proposal in other respects.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u81	Madam Speaker! This is exactly what Mr. Kiljunen said. In this Chamber many times it has been heard that the government intends to compensate the low-income people for the cuts and savings in the competitiveness pact for low-income incomes, but the fact is that now that these tax reductions have been made after the competitiveness agreement and so does this change in the health insurance law that is now under way, this does not compensate the poorest for the cuts that the government is doing, for example, by cutting and freezing indices and cutting travel expenses and medical expenses and so forth. So the problem is that these poorest Finns have been left here to lick their hands. That is why we Greens have made a proposal in our own alternative budget which the government should have brought, a much higher increase to this lower limit of the basic reduction in municipal tax, because we think that raising it would be a good way to reduce poverty and reduce income disparities, because it would be directed not only at wages but also at benefits and pensions. But otherwise I agree with what previous speakers have said about this, Mr Kiljunen in particular, and I expect that the government will not impose further cuts in social benefits there. We have some kind of promise of this in committee, and we shall be very careful in the opposition to ensure that this promise is adhered to, because it is precisely the lowest-income ones that have suffered most during this term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u82	Madam President! The government's proposal is quite right to take a step-by-step approach to improving employment with certain measures. If we are going to increase the tax rate, it is the worst poison to our competitiveness, and if we really want the right welfare in this country, then all we have to do is get employment figures up to the target of 72 per cent of the workforce. That's the road we're on right now. As we know, the last employment statistics have been encouraging. Of course we're at the beginning of that path. In the name of the truth, it must be mentioned that the change is small, yet the direction has been reversed, and it is encouraging. We've got to keep going this way. We just received — yesterday, or the day before yesterday — a request from the European Commission for information on how our budget takes into account this debt of the Finnish national economy and the debt of public finances in general. This is a serious warning that we are on the incline. We must gradually and work hard to correct the economy of this country, to improve employment. The fall in unemployment in this society is more than EUR 5 billion. It is much, much more so for those who are unemployed. So, of course, we have to keep these social benefits and such ones to the best of our ability, but the real and right way is to get people to work. There we still have a big field to plow, and I hope that the opposition will also participate in this plowing of a large field with a positive attitude that the only way to do people's things in a better position is to get people to work. Of course, it is the first sign of a civilised society that we take care of the weakest people as best we can, and we stick to that, but the big improvement comes from getting more and more jobs for people, well-being and, above all, new pension provision for people when retirement days come.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u83	Madam President! This government proposal before us relates, as has been said here, to the so-called competitiveness pact and the related tax solution. I have been a little concerned about the basic question of what the Greens' attitude to this competitiveness pact is. However, this is one of the most important solutions for the economy and employment of this parliamentary term, and the Greens are now, at least in the polls, a larger party. It can be thought that such a larger party would have a position on this one of the most important economic and employment policy solutions of recent times. When I've tried to carry this, I haven't really found it. It is said that both cake can't be eaten and cake preserved at the same time, but somehow only those green, media pets will succeed in opposing the competitiveness pact at the same time and supporting the competitiveness pact. I do not mean that each of us would be terribly happy with the details of the competitiveness pact, many of us are very critical, but to this basic question, whether it was better to have a competitiveness agreement, or whether it would not have been better if it had not been born, I would like a green answer. This issue has become topical because Mr Ville and the President of the Greens In June, Niinistö wrote a column against the Competitiveness Pact on Facebook or something like that on social media, and yet then in this Chamber, for example, Mr Järvinen said that the Greens are ready to accept the Competitiveness Pact. Now I ask, which is your position?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u84	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz is now quite skilfully trying to direct the debate to something other than what is being discussed here. — In other words, it is good that we are now compensating for the cuts made by the Competitiveness Pact to the lowest-income earners. But what our committee felt was a problem here is that, at the same time, when the government is cutting off, for example, guaranteed pensioners who cannot employ themselves, no compensation is being directed at them, such as an increase in the basic deduction of municipal tax. As far as I am concerned, I fully agree with Mr Hoskose that work is, of course, the best social security, but we always have among us those pensioners who have already worked, for example, who cannot help themselves with their work, and we must take care of them. But as far as Mr Zyskowicz's question is concerned, we Greens have accepted a solution to the competitiveness pact in a situation where we felt that it was the best option for society: we can move forward in the difficult situation in which the government's actions had driven society. But all this time we have strongly criticised the fact that the government, with this threatening policy, started to promote a social pact and then produced such a result, so bad a result for women in the low-income public sector, for example, that such an agreement would never have been made without such a government threatening policy that you were pursuing. We will adopt measures following the Competitiveness Pact which will improve people's position, but we will continue to be very critical of the government's labour policy, and of course we will be allowed to quote our criticisms against this government's threat policy. We're still behind it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u85	Madam President! I have had the pleasure of discussing with Mrs Zyskowicz what we think before. We value the content of the competitiveness pact, which is certainly better than the compulsory laws the government intends to impose. But since very many in this Chamber, including your party, Mr Zyskowicz, recognise that its effects are particularly on low-income women in the public sector in the form of a cut in holiday money, we would have expected that the government, through its own decisions, would have made decisions that would have improved their position in particular. But on the contrary, when the government's own actions are in the direction of further weakening of their position, we criticise and strongly criticise this. The second point is that no one knew yet when the Competitiveness Pact came into force, that the government was going to make such major changes in unemployment security, that there was such a large reduction in employment, and of course
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u86	Madam President! There are many problematic points in the Competitiveness Pact. For example, I would not have made a decision in which holiday money is only being cut from the public sector, because it is often targeted at these low-paid women, of which Mr Järvinen spoke, among others. But it was good to hear Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto say now that the Greens accept the competitiveness pact, even though they do not accept the pressure of the government that led to it, and even if you see that there are a lot of individual problematic points. I hope that this statement by the Greens, confirmed by Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, that the competitiveness agreement was better than not having been concluded would also be passed on to the Chairman of the Party, Ville Niinistö, because at least I have not noticed from any publicity that he would at any time have withdrawn this judgmental position of the Competitiveness Agreement, which he has therefore published on the Greens' website on 4 June 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u88	Madam President! The Government Programme contains three key elements: The first was these savings which have now been made and which hopefully will no longer have to be continued. In this respect, debt is controlled — and has already been controlled by what it was during the last parliamentary term. It was extremely violent when the state was in debt, the municipalities were in debt, and the treasury was almost empty. This policy will no longer be pursued, Working life is being reformed. It's going on all the time. The work life package is here. Then there is the progress of social and other structural reforms. This is the whole government program. And what happened? We have had an extraordinary change from what had happened between 2012 and 2014. At that time GDP fell, unemployment got worse and investments were frozen and competitiveness was lost. Now all these factors are better off. We have economic growth — not enough, but we do. And this entity, and as an important part of the competitiveness pact, has led us to have confidence in the economy in this country and thus to an improvement in the employment situation. In this regard, at least personally, I am very pleased that a competitiveness pact has been reached. Of course, it would have been nice if the organisations had agreed on it voluntarily, but when this does not happen, then clear government measures are needed, and this has happened. As far as the impact is concerned, for example, this reduction in public sector holiday money would not have been acceptable to me either, and I still do not understand that trade unions and, among other things,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u89	Madam President! This line of communication for the Greens has caused me great wonder too, and it has been a little difficult to understand it. I've had to get a little deeper into it. As Mr Zyskowicz mentioned in his own speech on this issue of the competitiveness pact with regard to the Greens, the President of the Greens has condemned it, and then we have just heard that the Greens accept it. There's a shy country boy wondering how this thing is going, what's the party line? I am referring, for example, to your position on agricultural policy. The other day you were proposing that the money for agricultural leave should be thrown away and that agricultural subsidies should be cut and redirected to new ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u92	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz started a debate on a very important issue and on questions of principle, namely that this and many other issues are concerned with the implementation of the Competitiveness Pact. Representative Alanko-Kahiluoto criticised the state into which the government has driven the country. However, the question now has to be asked, which government pushed the country into this situation, that such social agreements and competitiveness agreements should be considered. I will answer myself: it was the previous government that did not do these things, and there came a new government that had to start doing those things. Not only is the Greens' position on this matter very vague, but we must also be surprised at the left-wing alliance, which seems to be opposed to anything that moves towards this agreement, even though it is negotiated by the unions. Don't you trust the unions to negotiate the outcome?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u93	Mr President! In order to make the Greens' position on the kiky agreement clear, I would like to repeat what Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto and Mr Järvinen have said. The Kiki agreement is definitely a better option than the coercive package. If we have to choose between two options, then we will, of course, choose a kiky agreement in that situation. However, I do not think that it is wise to have an economic policy based on one kiky card for the whole economic policy of the government. I believe that a large proportion of the members of the Assembly understand this, including Mr Zyskowicz, because this leads to the government tying hands on important employment-enhancing structural reforms and to the freezing of Finland, as one of the ex-ministers of the Assembly has quite rightly pointed out. The fact that there is agreement on this analysis does not mean that, for example, there is agreement on all means of local agreement. The impact of the Kiki agreement is also disproportionate, especially for low-paid people in the public sector, and that is why we hope and propose in our own alternative budget that the government itself corrects the effects of the Kiki agreement by means of proposals that reduce income inequalities, reduce poverty and inequality. The concrete proposal is, among other things, this increase in the basic deduction of municipal tax and an increase in the reduction in labour income. As far as Mr Hoskonen's comments on this agricultural issue and, above all, on the issue of holidays are concerned, Mr Hoskonen spoke somewhat against better information, because one Green Representative expressed his opinion on the issue and the next day, or whether it was two days later, five Green Members of Parliament told us the party's line and what the parliamentary group thought about it, and we did not support the cut-off.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u94	Madam President! It is worth continuing this debate on the Greens' attitude towards this competitiveness pact, because, as I said, this is one of the main solutions for this parliamentary term, at least until now, and it is, as I said, at least a medium-sized party. Congressman Jani Mäkelä also criticised the Left Alliance for such a volatile attitude. But in this respect, Mr. J. Mäkelä is wrong. The Left Alliance has been completely unambiguous in this Chamber in its opposition to the Competitiveness Pact. The Demars, on the other hand, have unequivocally supported the competitiveness pact. And now that I say'support', I do not mean that all the individual solutions relating to the competitiveness pact are considered to be good — as hardly the representatives of the government parties do not think they are good. For example, personally I do not understand at all, but I also reject the fact that the social partners agreed in the Competitiveness Pact that it was precisely and only public sector workers' holiday payments were cut on a fixed-term basis, while those in other sectors were left undisturbed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u99	Madam President! I am rarely so warmly and positively taken from anyone's speech as Mr Zyskowicz's, because this shows that the Greens are a real challenge to the assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u107	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Zyskowicz for her excellent speech. I say to Mr Järvinen: yes, you are a challenge to all the parties in the government, because you are doing such populist politics. You will shoot everything with a shotgun, all government proposals will be attacked, and then, just as Mr Zyskowicz testified, they will be praised elsewhere. You have an opinion on every issue, and your opinions on these matters are diverse. It is not very credible — it unfortunately seems to be sinking into people — and it seems that you yourself do not know what you really want. It was an excellent move to raise this representative Emma Kari about the removal of these Kela compensations. I can't help myself. I'm surprised. There is a motion of this kind that you yourself have demanded, and then there is an attack on the other side that this should not be done. I do not like this kind of populist policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u108	Mr President! The Greens have proposed a waiver of Kela compensations, and that is the line of the Party and the Parliamentary Group. The fact that one representative is wondering what will happen at that stage Pure populism is purely your speech, in which you try to ride with individual mistakes and in some way black out the whole line of the party.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u109	Mr President! Having signed and negotiated some of the agreements themselves — some better and some worse — I would say that it has been fortunate that this kiky agreement has been reached in the country, although I believe that it is treating the public sector unfairly. But I would also like to say that the public sector unions also took such a pragmatic position when they signed this agreement, that in this situation, however, better solutions can be achieved by agreeing than by war.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u110	Madam President! It is not unique in politics and it is not just appropriate for the Greens that the party has as many opinions as the man, or, if not so much now, different opinions in any case. In this context, I would now like to ask the government parties what you think of, for example, the cuts in carers. You have representatives from almost every party who have said that this dimension cannot be cut, even though it is stated in the Government Programme and you have decided to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u111	Now we're going a long way from the real thing. One last response to Mr Zyskowicz and then we will continue the debate through this list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u112	Thank you, Madam Speaker! Mr Järvinen must be told that there are three different parties in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u113	Mr President! In the opinion of the Social Democrats, when the agreement is reached, those agreements will be adhered to. And if this has been discussed about what is the past world and what is the present world, then you could say that, yes, the forced law package presented by the government was precisely the past world. There was no culture of reconciliation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u116	Madam President! Finland was in a very serious situation in the spring of last year when the previous government ended and this government started. Four times this government gave the social partners space and the opportunity to conclude a competitiveness pact. It just wasn't born. When the situation was so difficult in our economy after the previous government, the government had a full responsibility to put on the table the conditions for the rise in this country. That is what happened, and finally the organisations reached an agreement which has a lot to criticise, as has been said in this debate. Now I would like to highlight this inconsistency of the Greens. Representative Aalto has repeatedly said here and in Central Finland that the government sold all the reforms with the Competitiveness Pact, so that all the reforms in the world of work are now stuck because the government approved the competitiveness agreement that the organisations concluded. Now here Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto says that when the competitiveness agreement was concluded, the government immediately carried out labour market reforms. You're all in this together, aren't you? Representative Aalto says that all reforms have been removed from the table, and Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto says that they are being done and done wrong. So there is a contradiction in what the Greens say. Whether or not the Competitiveness Pact stiffens something: I'm sure it'll stiffen you for a while, but the government's working all the time. Unfortunately, the local agreement that many workplaces are engaged in has not progressed. Representative Aalto must know the situation in Central Finland well. There employment has improved; now, after four years' break, fewer than 20,000 unemployed people have been made redundant.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u117	Mr President! I would just like to point out that when Mr Kankaanniemi said that the government was forced to bring a package of compulsory legislation aimed at improving employment, in fact, when our various economic institutions assessed that package, they said that it would not improve employment but, on the contrary, weaken it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u119	Mr President! Every time I talk about this Kiki agreement and its impact on the extent to which it freezes the economy and prevents these structural reforms, I have pointed out that the pension reform has been taken forward, that the social reform has been taken forward, that the traffic cycle has been praised. I have spoken about the fact that the main new structural reforms which will increase employment are very difficult to take forward, while the hands are tied to the Kiki agreement. That is what I have brought up every time, so that the representative The Kankaanniemi again spoke a slightly modified truth in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u120	Mr President! I shall now take this opportunity to speak in this way, when I did not receive it at that moment, when the representative of Action Kankaaniemi described this history here, how all this wonderfulness was born. However, it must now be remembered that Sipilä, even before the beginning of the government negotiations, introduced such a term as a social pact. There was no solution to this between the social partners in the sense that the employer, for example the EK in particular, was opposed to certain compromise projects that could have been agreed between the social partners at that stage. After that, Prime Minister Sipilä brought his own proposal with his mandatory laws, not just now. This guillotine was put on the backs of the social partners, and definitely on the backs of the employees' central organisations and associations, at a very early stage, and it was under threat that a competitiveness pact was still to be concluded at the end of the process. In other words, the government threatened from the outset and did not bring these projects, which are now being carried out, responsibly at the end of the day. I do not believe that the Left Alliance, as a parliamentary group, is questioning the right of the social partners to conclude a competitiveness pact, certainly not. But the parliamentary group of the Left Alliance is considering the legislation that the government brings here to present and assessing its impact from the perspective of Finnish and often unemployed or employed citizens. At this point, I think it is right for us to criticise the democratic possibility of criticising the legislation presented here. That is what we have done, and that is what we will continue to hold onto. We are not going elsewhere to criticise what central organisations in this country have the opportunity to agree on a tripartite basis. They make the agreements they have been mandated to, and we here in Parliament, the MPs, the parliamentary groups, assess for ourselves whether the legislation, what the government brings here and what is being discussed here in the committees is justified and fair to Finnish citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u121	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz mentioned me earlier by name, but he has been waiting for my answer. I did not suggest that the Left Alliance should support a competitiveness pact, it has clearly been made clear that the Left Alliance is not in favour of it, but I have just pointed out this strange imbalance in the fact that the Workers' Party is opposed to the outcome of the trade union negotiations. I think that is a rather unusual idea. These speeches by the Greens are also quite interesting. On this issue of agricultural leave, representative Aalto said that one representative from the Greens was against the leave, five were in favour. Well, I didn't know what the rest of them thought about this. Did they think they wouldn't touch them, because these farm surveyors are mostly outside Ring Three? Maybe. I do not know, but it seems that there are very diverse opinions like that for a parliamentary party. This social pact was already on the table in the first place, starting with the government programme, even before the elections. The public, according to studies, gave it their support, but the social pact did not go to these foreign parliamentarians. That is why we are in this situation that the negotiations have failed so many times, and it can be read from the history of what happened. I would also like to say that the nature of the competitiveness pact is such that no one is meant to be satisfied with it. Who would be satisfied with cutting and removing benefits? No, of course not. There's nothing to add. Small entrepreneurs were not sufficiently listened to when negotiating the agreement. For example, missing the local arrangement was a big mistake. No one will be entirely happy with it, but it is better than nothing now. Nor will it solve all the problems of our competitiveness, but it will solve some of them, and now parts of this imperfect whole will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u122	Madam President! Mr Mäkelä, I understand the enthusiasm to raise the issue of how the so-called Labour Party does not accept the agreement reached by central organisations or trade unions. That enthusiasm is very understandable when it masks, in a way, what has been emphasised in its own electoral promises before the elections, and it has been very important to highlight how we are on the side of the poor people and now not cut off from education and, in particular, to develop and improve the position of pensioners and children. Of course, this is a good thing here with great enthusiasm to bring up and move the debate from just one of its own to another. I would hope that each of us will be responsible for what he has done and for what he has promised.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u123	Madam President! The Government’s proposal under discussion is indeed part of the chain in which Finland’s competitiveness is gradually being adjusted. There's no one in this room who can say it's a trick. It is a long and rocky road, but it is the only road and the only sustainable road that should be followed in Finland. Finland's economic situation is serious, and it also requires serious measures, and the more united they are, the better we will achieve. Now that this competitiveness pact has been praised in this Chamber and I have also heard the words of criticism, which I am somewhat surprised by, I can say that the signature of the competitiveness agreement opened the way for it — just as Mr Kankaanniemi said in his own speech on the situation in Central Finland and elsewhere: we have heard that new shipping orders have come to Turku, and we have heard of many other encouraging reports that company order books have gradually begun to be completed. But even in this situation, we still have no reason to burp our chests, but we need to continue on the road, we need to improve competitiveness. It's our only way. These coercive laws, which the opposition likes to speak with great words, were the secondary option, because the responsible government simply has no alternative of leaving things undone. The previous government shot down its own bill shortly before the paints came, and the Greens have still had such a tradition that when the mood darkens in the government, we would run away in the middle of the game. It simply does not fit in with this present world process. We owe more than 100 billion, Finland's public debt amounts to more than EUR 100 billion, which means that we are at the mercy of our creditors and at the mercy of international rating agencies. The statement they make about us whether we have made these decisions correctly in the context of economic recovery is precisely the message that needs to be taken seriously. Every percentage point of which the interest rate on Finnish loans rises takes a billion away from the budget, immediately away from the interest rate on central government debt. I would hope that, for example, the Greens and the Left Alliance and the opposition in general will take a stand, which will then be the case with this irresponsible policy of yours, where there is no clear line on what is to be taken, which is your option at the time when billions of dollars are cut out of the state budget. It is then the real terrible road that has to be taken, and hopefully Finland will not fall on that path. We are not yet on the solid basis on which we should be, but we have already taken the right course. It is a matter of hating the government that it has courageously begun to reform, and we must continue along that path. A good example of this, Madam President, is Germany. While he was Chancellor in 2003 and 2005, Gerhard Schröder made a major Hartz reform, and Germany, which was then mentioned in the debate on economic policy as a sick man in Europe, rose from a very difficult situation to an economic upturn, and everyone knows what the economic situation in Germany is today. It is the strongest country in Europe, the economy of which really works, foreign trade is good, and there are few unemployed people. Among other things, there was this unemployment reform, which guarantees an unemployed person a monthly earnings of EUR 1000, and if you make money in it, it will of course be deducted from this allowance, but EUR 1000 every month will, in other words, be secured. Even that reform did not come about without pain. Schröder had to resign from his own task, the Chancellor's. The party kicked him out, but everyone will thank him afterwards. I would hope that, now that the Finnish issues are being discussed, the position will be taken here that we must jointly put this Finnish country in order. We will never get to the point of turning fingers by clicking on the old bad situation. When it failed in Germany, neither can we. But the direction must be clear, and that is the path we have taken. I am very relieved that this right road has been found. I'm not saying the painless road. Under no circumstances is it a painless road. It is full, as someone said at the time, of blood, sweat and tears, which must also come, but we must just walk along the road and make sure that Finland's economy is starting to rise, that new jobs are created, that tax revenue is developing and, above all, that the growth of public debt is halted and that debt is gradually being paid off. If we don't pay our debts, one day their interest will rise. I don't know when the heels are going up. But it is certain that, in less than five years from now on, interest rates will go up. In $100 billion, everyone knows what 1% is. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will take this economic challenge seriously. Now is not the time for irresponsible speeches that happen to have to be redeemed in the next government when the big votes have come. What do we do then? Then it is no longer funny when the ratings breathe into the neck and the interest rate of the state debt rises. I hope that this responsibility will be taken into account and that we will not talk about anything quite soft.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u124	Mr President! I too am returning a little now to the beginning of the reign, now that there has been a great deal of discussion about it. As we all know, this reign did not begin out of nowhere, so here is the history behind it. That was a very difficult situation last summer if you wonder how our debt grew from 54 billion to 95 billion in 2008 to last summer. It's a huge amount. We also had an increase in unemployment of 100,000 unemployed people, and we have had real difficulties with exports. And if you will recall, it was the European Union and the Commission who were also roughing Finland up. I myself have visited the Commission last year, where Commissioner Katainen told us that Finland has received a number of warnings about this direction of the economy during the last term of government, but still no adequate measures were taken. I was not in Parliament at the time, but I followed that situation in the spring and autumn before the parliamentary elections, and yes I have to say that it was pretty creepy to watch when the government withdrew the laws, the war was a complete farce, the ministers were replaced, it really looked pretty worrying from there. That's where Myllykoski said he had to answer for what he had to do and what he had to say when he criticized that speech by Mr Mäkelä. Myllykoski seems to have left — and that is exactly how it is. The left side was also in the government last season, which is exactly how it is to be responsible for their own actions. Surely no one who has been here before, in previous periods, is completely without responsibility for this, in what state Finland is in, when we do not start at zero, so that all debts and liabilities are reset when the reign begins. It would be really nice if you could just give everyone more stuff, it would be so easy. Mr Järvinen then pointed out that the government does not care about low incomes. I don't know how you get the impression that we have people here who don't care about low incomes. We have also made a lot of investments there, what we have been able to do. For example, VAT has been reduced, the guarantee pension has been increased twice. These tax reductions, which were promised on the basis of the coverage of the Kiki agreement, now also came to pensioners. Family and family care has been invested. Today, we have also discussed the fact that EUR 2500 has been reimbursed to entrepreneurs for the cost of pregnancy — it is on the government. There's a lot of things we're trying to do to support people. I find it quite interesting to use such terms that "government doesn't care", so that in that sense too... Well, I understand, of course, that we want to send out a message that there is the most ravishing language possible. In his historical recollection, Mr Myllykoski also raised the situation of last summer's events, how they progressed, and he used the word 'false laws' as the whole opposition did at the time. It was a term created by the opposition. It was actually a competitiveness pact, what we were talking about. In my opinion, all laws are binding and binding. It is not the idea that if you want to follow those laws, they are not in general. What also seemed strange in Mr Myllykoski’s speeches was that he said that the government threatened with laws. So I do not feel as a threat that Parliament, representatives of parliament, ministers will tell us that we may have to make laws in this and this direction. So they are democratically elected people who have the duty and the right to legislate. Surely it is not a threat if such a person tells us that we may have to do this or this or so? It must also be understood that there is a mandate and an obligation to legislate. Nor is it a solution if things go badly and worse, if they were to stand up straight and say that we can do nothing if there is no uniform consensus on this in the whole Parliament. That would be pretty crazy. There couldn't be a situation like that. We could not legislate in any way if we had to have a consensus on everything. To that end, we have such a system of government and opposition, and it is up to you to criticise and criticise them. But as Myllykoski himself said — and I hope that this will also be kept for its own part — we will also remember what we are doing and the responsibility of our own government. What I, at least myself, have considered special in that kiky agreement is that public sector holiday allowance cut in the sense that it only affects public sector employees. If I were to think that it would have been brought here as a package of laws — and I myself am a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — I do not think it would have gone through in terms of equality, that it would only target workers in a particular sector, that is to say, the public sector. I do not think that we have passed through the Constitutional Committee — it has not been here — nor have these, as the opposition would say, coercive laws. Representative Filatov said that there were some impact assessments and what all that they were very bad, all those laws. The government's toolbox is more limited than the trade unions, we all remember it, but it was never the same as the government's proposals, so that they would have gone to committee and we would have had a wide consultation of experts here. It is good to remember that they were not ready for presentations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u125	Mr President! I made three comments on the debate that has taken place, which is not quite enough for me to come here and tell you. First of all: Mr Meri is quite right that every party should remember what has been done during the previous parliamentary term and that these things are not entirely created in a vacuum, that is quite true. For example, the problem of the last parliamentary term could be described by the word "latka" or "latka": because major structural reforms will not be achieved, they will be completely bogged down. In a way, it is quite the right analysis to say, and the Greens also take responsibility for it, even though we were a small party. And, of course, when you go to the government, there are certain key agreements about it, and if these agreements are not adhered to — we have made a promise to the voters to take certain things forward — and if you are present in a government where the bottom is taken away, then there is only one option: to stick to your words and then move on to the opposition. But as far as the operation of this parliamentary term is concerned, perhaps because the last parliamentary term was like a slut, during this parliamentary term we have tried as dynamicly as possible, as quickly as possible, to move things forward, and that has led to many legislative proposals being decided first, then considered and finally withdrawn, i.e. three P-letters. It has to be said when you see how many proposals the government makes, withdraws them and fails to carry out many impact assessments and later discovers what has been done. This three-letter "P" line goes through it. Mr Hoskonen gave an important speech in which there were many good points of view. With regard to these interest rates, the Committee on Finance has given us a very clear view from Finland's top economists that in future we will see a situation of stagnation, that is, a situation of zero growth of this kind, and it will continue even decades onward, far beyond the horizon — this risk of interest rates is not in the same way in Finland's high-level ecosystems. I do not know where Mr Hoskonen has been getting this for five years, but this is a good and important topic for discussion. The most important thing that Mr Hoskonen raised in his criticisms, which I want to say from a green point of view, is that it is now of paramount importance to avoid the hasty cuts which, at the same time, also reduce the income base of the state and lead to new costs, especially those arising from unemployment. If we take all the euro into account, we will be talking about a total contribution of up to EUR 8 billion to unemployment every year. And this is one of the biggest questions: how can we increase the employment rate? At the moment, when the government is holding a debate on this employment package and has not yet brought to light measures that would actually detract properly, the overall economics estimate is that these measures will not achieve this target of 72% employment rates. And the big problem is that, as the finance minister, Orpo, has told us on two occasions in this Chamber, in consultation with all of us, that if we do not reach the employment rate target of 72%, then there will be a new cycle of cuts. As far as this kiky agreement is concerned, I say this and it is also a general economic assessment that a responsible government does not build its entire economic policy line on a single kiky card, but should be able to anticipate what will happen. In a world so rapidly changing, the creation of such a cemented structure is not a wise economic policy, because it so severely reduces its ability to change. And last but not least, Mr Mäkelä has spoken on a wide range of opinions. Yes, each party and parliamentary group have diverse opinions. That's a good thing. That's the way it should be. One of the Presidents mentioned very forcefully before the elections: those receiving less than one tonne of income must not, should not and cannot be cut. Apparently, the whole Finnish Parliament group disagrees with the party’s own election promises — unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u126	Mr President! Representative Aalto had a very good speech, but apparently he was referring to us, because we have what we are still trying to do, and our party programme is still in force, so that in the future we will try to get everyone 1000 euros free of tax. Unfortunately, we are not the only party, and we have not been able to make the Finnish economy fit for it yet. But this party programme of ours is still in force, and we, as a group, stand by the words of our chairman, which means that we do not have two different lines or statements on this issue. We will continue to strive for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u128	Mr President! In his own speech, Mr Meri called for it when I said that the government did not care about low incomes. He mentioned that the VAT has been reduced, that the guarantee pension has been increased. But let us look at what is left under the line: increased fees for health care, reduced travel allowances, increased caps on medicines, reduced national pension index, and when tax solutions are still in support of high incomes, the systematic decline in the purchasing power of low-income pensioners — and this applies to all pensioners whose income is less than EUR 2500. And when you talk about guaranteed pensioners, the saddest thing is that the purchasing power of guaranteed pensioners is being cut and weakened most. In other words, when you, in your election vows, are talking about not cutting revenue below EUR 1000, you are actually cutting it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u129	I fully agree that if it is said that the Finns of Peru have taken care of the poor, this has certainly not been the case, that is not the case. Now the most disadvantaged are being taken away, also in this case. Those who earn the least of all get nothing. And this, too, does not bring anything to pensioners, to poor families with children, not to the sick, not to those who have no income. This is just handing out a stick, and it seems like you can't take it anymore. For some reason, those who earn better will not be subjected to this discipline and discipline. At the moment, it seems that those who earn around EUR 7500 a month will benefit from these tax reductions, which have now become, the most.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u130	Mr President! I will not go any further than that, but it is quite necessary to mention that the Kiki Agreement could not define matters other than those of workers, since it cannot begin to define what kind of medical compensation is to be paid.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u133	And now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u134	Mr President! What we are dealing with here is the Government's proposal 199, which directs tax reductions made to low-income wage earners in the form of compensation for kiky. This sounds good and looks very good on paper. This proposal improves the purchasing power of people who earn less than EUR 14,000 a year, i.e. people who earn EUR 1000 a month. For them, this health insurance fee will be abolished, and that is a great thing. But here again it is seen that the government does not look at what these decisions really mean. It is not a question of whether or not this will become an incentive trap, and that is what it will be. In other words, if a person earns EUR 13999 99 cents a year, he will not lose this payment, but if the salary rises to the 1 cent or 14,000, then the payment will go, and calculatedly it will rise to 160 percent, it will be EUR 200. In what way does this help people to go to work and stay at work and make a better living for themselves? I haven't calculated how much money I have to make to catch up with the $200, but it's not going to go away with a little money. Of course, this is accompanied by this reduction in the employer’s medical contribution, which is linked to pain. In other words, the kiky now has a little to do with employers, not just employees, and that is definitely a much better thing than forced law. But the other side of it is that it obviously causes a gap in the funding of health insurance. These reforms will reduce the contribution rate for employers by EUR 706 million and for low-income earners by EUR 63 million. And now, when you consider where this compensatory amount is taken from, because these sums have not been drawn from the wind, with which they are replaced, whether they may be replaced by a reduction in social security, then, if that is the case, it is far from paying attention to the poor people and helping the poor people to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u137	Mr President! Indeed, during the last parliamentary term, the then government, or even two of them, with the Greens almost to the end, financed all the benefits through debt — the debt was taken to the State by 20 billion, the municipalities by 7 billion because of the cuts in the state's share, the state's treasury was eaten up by 7 billion, and so on — that is, huge debt. However, unemployment grew by 100,000; when the government program had a promise that 100,000 jobs would be created, 100,000 went. Gross domestic product fell for three years in a row. What's the situation? There are so many different things, measures, in the Government Programme. There was little in the previous government's programme; no reform came about. There were no promises, no proposals for measures, and therefore nothing had to be withdrawn. When you don't try anything, you don't have to cancel anything either. Now there is a tremendous amount of reform in the Government Programme, and some have been prepared in the Government negotiations in short time, so that once they have been more closely considered and prepared for the form of legislative proposals, it has been found that it is not necessarily wise to do them the way they were agreed then. This has been withdrawn and another solution has been made. This makes sense, and this is a responsible policy. There should also have been such a sensible and responsible policy in the previous period, but there was no grip. Representative Wave was talking about interest rates. We are living in a time of negative interest rates, the ECB has used its means to revitalise the economy, and we cannot afford much of that either. You would take debt out of proportion and keep everything the same, just as you did last season, and that did not work. Now the government has another line, and it is producing results. The Commission's request for clarification is, Mrs Aalto, very serious, the one that came yesterday, but I believe the government is able to answer it precisely because its policy is responsible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u138	Mr President! To Mr Kankaanie, despite the many bad things that have happened during the last parliamentary term, it was these automatic stabilisers who made substantial expenditure adjustments of EUR 5.5 billion in their entirety and unemployment. In other words, when unemployment increases and social spending increases, they affect, of course, that amount of debt. What would have happened if social policy had not been taken care of? Then there would be a much bigger bomb in our economy. And when shocks strike during the last parliamentary term, it is quite the same who is actually the Minister of Finance and who is in the government, because if there were 100,000 new unemployed, then other types of action would easily have become between 200,000 and 300,000 new unemployed. Maybe that explains a lot of what was done and what was done. You could always have improved your run, but this is a fact.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u139	Mr President! Representative Aalto said that the adjustment of EUR 5.5 billion, or savings, was made during the last parliamentary term. Well, taxation was tightened up, which further paralysed the economy, but those savings were largely, almost all — albeit somewhat from education — cuts in the central government shares of municipalities. Municipalities were in terrible debt, municipalities laid off people, municipalities were forced to weaken services, crisis municipalities became numerous. Currently, no crisis municipalities are known and the local government finances are getting stronger. As is known for Jyväskylä, the budget will even be in balance next year. It's an incredible achievement. Last season, the direction was quite different. You tried to cover up the inactions that were in government policy with regard to debt, which was actually a debt transfer from the state to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u140	Mr President! It must be pointed out that spending adjustment means more than simply raising taxes or cutting expenditure. In the last parliamentary term, this ratio between tax increases and expenditure was 50/50. During this parliamentary term, the Economic Policy Evaluation Council, among other things, expressed its criticism that the overall tax rate is not rising. This is a government-led objective, and it unnecessarily narrows the fiscal room for manoeuvre that could be done in this situation. This is a flawed line, and it is precisely the harshest economists in Finland's economic policy that have given you this attention. I wish we could learn some lessons from that. It is quite clear that central government cuts are cumulative in municipalities, and they are negative things, but in the same way again, when, for example, municipalities' customer fees rise and through it tax revenues decrease slightly and economic policy rigorously on the one hand and, on the other hand, using its stimulus to such clean tax benefits to the richest, it also narrows the state of the economy, and it exacerbates the position of municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u141	Mr President! It may be difficult to find out if you are not familiar with the context of economic policy. In this debate, the Greens have been accused of being on two lines, as it were, but all they have to do is follow this debate, whether the government withdraws things or the parliament does not accept the laws, sin or blessing of the government. The representative of the Sea thought it was a sin when it was done by the previous government, but the representative of Kankaanniemi thinks it is a blessing when it is done by this government. I, too, regard it as the best works of this government, namely, these withdrawn laws have been such that if they had been laid down they would have brought Finland to ruin and disciplined the poorest in the worst way. But I actually asked for this speech because the Hartz Committee and the minijob and its results were raised here from the point of view of employment. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities was looking into the German model, and we actually heard an assessment of the Hartz Committee by German researchers, and they felt that employment results were not due to this mini-job, but because of a more active labour market policy, other reforms were also being carried out in relation to pensions and a few other benefits. That is to say, the fact that people are being put on hunger pay to do many jobs does not bring economic benefits to society, but only by raising labour productivity. And if we look at where the term 'forced law' came from, it was given by the legal scholars because it was a rather exceptional legislative package proposal, which was therefore a government proposal and was in the consultation process, and those opinions strongly criticised the fact that it did not improve employment and did not bring the good it had expected. The laws which prohibit better agreement and which interfered with the mechanisms normally agreed by collective agreements were designated as mandatory laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u142	Congressman Järvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u143	Thank you, Mr President. I was talking a little different when I was talking about how I was following this last term of government when I was not in Parliament myself: big projects fell and nothing went forward, and we are voting against our own projects. That is a little different from the fact that a matter is being prepared and considered — and it is not yet here as a government proposal — and the government hears the parties and states that this is not a good thing. And yet we're taking big things forward. But of course we can squish about these, and if that is the only thing you want to talk about here, then that is fine. However, I think it is important for Parliament to have a mandate to legislate, and somehow I find it strange that the word 'obligatory law' should be used. If someone else uses it, you don't have to use it yourself.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u144	Mr President! When much has been said here about rowing and felting in the previous government, it must be said that it has not been so cheerful to look at it again during this term of government the way in which different laws, legislative proposals, have been brought to the table and with what enthusiasm they have been driven until, after all, they have been withdrawn from the proceedings. Let me just give you a few examples: For example, the tax on penitentiaries was speeded up. Fortunately, it was finally knocked down. Day care fees were being increased and fire-burning speeches were being heard here for why it is absolutely necessary to do so until the government realised that it was better to bend and withdraw the increases. The same applies to the plans to cut the housing allowance for pensioners. They too had to be done, but when the opposition took action, they too were abandoned. The latest example is the invalidistic surgery plans, which fortunately were abandoned by the government. In other words, it must be said that from the point of view of the opposition, we must now be pleased that the government has not only rowed on very important issues as well. And when you look at things from now on, the things that the oars could take back into the felt position are, among other things, drug replacement surgery for type two diabetics, which is likely to be more expensive than the content of the surgery itself. Another equivalent is the planned integration support for asylum seekers, foreigners, which would be 90 per cent of the basic income of Finns. It is difficult to find a reason for this. It costs more than savings. I hope those oars are in a felt position here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u145	Mr President! When my name was mentioned several times, I will return to a few points raised in the debate. First of all, the representative of Kankaanniemi well pointed out the previous government's line to pass on the price of its decisions to municipalities by cutting the central government's shares and increasing obligations. The municipalities will eventually produce our services. If the municipalities are suppressed, these services cannot in practice be provided to residents. This government does not pay for things, except perhaps one small thing: the government lowers the fees for day care for low incomes, as originally planned. Many municipalities have to dig it out of their budgets, but they are happy to dig it out because it is important. As regards the Greens’ criticism of the goals of the Finns, I have just checked that the Greens have been established as a party in 1987. Climate change has actually only been invented since then. Climate change has accelerated since then. Is it the case that the Greens are in favour of climate change, or is there nothing they want or can do about it? This logic is about the same. The competitiveness pact will bring us jobs, jobs will generate tax revenues, and tax revenues will be able to take care of those who cannot take care of themselves. If the state were to go bankrupt because of a lack of tax revenue, to direct international finance, the low incomes would only suffer in that situation. If you don't believe me, ask me about Greece.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u146	Mr. Speaker! There has been a very wide-ranging debate around the amendment of the Health Insurance Act, but when it is part of the Kiki Agreement and then the Kiki Agreement is an important part of the government's policy to raise Finland, it is appropriate to hold this debate. Mr President! I would have liked a comment from Mrs Aalto on this request for clarification from the EU Commission. You are suggesting that we now take up debt and let everyone, or at least most of it, spend and spend, i.e. debt, on current consumption expenditure. What will you answer to the EU Commission on this policy when it asks for a report on the situation in Finland? I believe that this is a serious question enough to warrant a moment's pause. As regards the cost of immigration, which Mr Järvinen has most recently addressed, almost EUR 1 billion will go into the cost, bureaucracy and maintenance of 40,000 immigrants this year. It's a huge amount. And you want it to continue to grow and the borders are open and the benefits are as good as possible. On the other hand, it is great that this is the case, but this money is unreasonably large. It could help, say, half of it could help, millions of people who are really in need there in refugee camps, children, the elderly, the sick, women who are suffering very much. It's a different situation here, isn't it? So these reflections need to be made. This billion, for example, increases the level of government debt in relation to refugee, immigration and immigration expenditure compared to what was there the other year, during your period. You owe me a government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u147	Mr President! It's an interesting place in this hall. When you speak here about the government's planned integration aid, which is 90% of basic Finnish security, would increase our costs instead of reducing them, you can conclude that I want to open up borders and bring to Finland an unlimited number of asylum seekers and other foreigners. That's a very interesting interpretation. But as far as this integration aid is concerned: If it goes through — which seems very strange at this point — it means that an increasing number of people are going to fall into the income support hatch, and that means that this group should not take the slightest job because they will not be protected by the 300 euro reserve, such as those on labour market support. It won't protect them. In other words, if they accept even a small task, they will lose the amount of income support, which is why the planned integration aid, not only is it, hopefully, unconstitutional, but also acts against themselves. As far as municipal government shares are concerned: Great if they are not cut. It is worth remembering, however, that the income of the municipality is also influenced by how much its inhabitants earn, and when the people with low incomes are cut the most, it is a strong regional policy, what this government is doing. And that regional policy is reasonably gruesome for Eastern and Northern Finland, bearing in mind that we have a much greater share of those on low incomes. You say you don't pass on expenses to the municipalities. However, for example:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u148	Mr President! The alternative budget for the Greens is based on the fact that the balance between permanent expenditure and revenue is exactly the same. And what separates the greens from the government within these bodies: We are spending money on point A to point B, and that is precisely our idea that we should now make a strong contribution to the major structural reforms that promote employment, which can be boosted by public investment. This is, among other things, the line of Danske Bank’s Chief Economist, Kuoppamäki, which is also Etla’s central line. You may wonder what better time it is to invest later in any case than the moment when we even have minus interest rates and zero interest rates on long-term loans and, at the same time, we have mass unemployment. That's something to think about. This is the line I would also like to address to the Commission, because the most important thing is to look at it in terms of medium-term and long-term economic productivity, to see what has the greatest impact on productivity: education, research and science. This is not what we're doing. And we are not cutting domestic purchasing power because the current small momentum of economic growth arises precisely from construction and domestic consumption. If too much is cut out of it, the tiny spark that brings heat to the national economy will be extinguished. That is why we need to think about how the effects will affect the longer time horizon, not the quarter, but the quarter of the century.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u149	Mr President! First of all, I wondered why the Greens now brought this immigration into this debate when they talk about amending the health insurance law, but there is, of course, the connection that if we did not have to put a billion on the cost of immigration, then there would not be so much pressure on the competitiveness pact and other austerity measures. Now that you are here, I could ask you the same question that I have asked so many times before the Greens but have not answered. You are of the opinion that more immigration is needed. How much? How many immigrants do you want in Finland? How many asylum seekers do you want in Finland? Give me a number. We can put the price on it. Then we can discuss the wisdom of your economic policy and the wisdom of your immigration policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u150	Mr President! Representative Mäkelä: No one, no person in this country, can answer that question, how many immigrants, asylum seekers we need. It's the future. But it is clear that if the birth rate is very low and continues to go down like a cow's tail, we will need more immigrants in the future than we have ever needed in the past. This answer is just as clear as it can be with this question. It's interesting that we're talking about health insurance... [Mauri Pekkarinen,First Vice-President :Mr. From now on, I would ask you to move on, to have a debate on what is said in the order of day. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u151	Mr President! I actually asked to speak in that previous debate, but when the President did not... [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President :Icontribute to this issue. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u154	Mr President! I'm sorry for talking about immigration, but I think Mr. Järvinen opened it up a little bit. Mr. Aalto hasn't answered yet. When, in this Health Insurance Act, as in many others, you demand more expenditure, how will you respond to the Commission's request for clarification on the state of the Finnish economy? This was not answered. According to this budget, municipalities will win 39 million, this will strengthen the local government finances. It's historical. More money is being put into the transport infrastructure than ever, but you want, Mr. Aalto, to take on more debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u155	Mr President! I will also keep this debate very brief, because this is no longer directly related to this matter of the day-to-day order, and I will say to Mr Kankaanniemi that please read the alternative budget for the Greens. There is only one thing to say about this: the balance between permanent expenditure and permanent revenue is exactly the same. Inside the budget, within the spending limits there is a value choice for which money is spent. Yle’s economist once again estimated, among other things, the following in his research and news on the green alternative budget: There are two ways to do things. Economists could not say which is better or worse, but clearly there is a different choice of values — a different choice of values in the green alternative budget and in the government line. The same amount of euro can be used in different ways. How it is used is once again a political choice of values.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u156	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 6/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u157	Mr President! There is, therefore, a draft law that would change the adult education aid, the Education Fund and the funding law on unemployment benefits, and this is now another element of the competitiveness pact, if you could say so. The committee supported this proposal, although it made a number of critical remarks. The committee welcomed the fact that these new provisions also include work abroad during the period of employment calculated, which is a prerequisite for this adult education. In other words, if work has been carried out in a Member State of the European Union, in a State belonging to the European Economic Area or in Switzerland, this work will continue to be calculated as if it were a condition of employment with regard to adult education. This is definitely a good thing. But this government proposal proposes to reduce the number and duration of adult education, both. In addition, the financing system for adult education and training will be reformed in such a way as to completely eliminate the central government contribution from the adult education allowance and to finance the aid from the income of the unemployment insurance contribution. On the other hand, adult education support for entrepreneurs will continue to be financed by the State. On this whole, the committee noted that the proposed changes were preferable to what had been in the government’s previous plans — it was thought that as a saving measure this whole adult education subsidy would have been converted into a loan. The committee felt that, despite the changes that have been proposed and these savings, the adult education allowance would continue to provide reasonable financial support to employees during their studies. Support is precisely an incentive for those who have entered the labour market to develop their own skills, especially because of the constant change in other needs of the labour and business world. Support also improves people's employment and opportunities for further employment. After an assessment of the importance of adult education, according to a study commissioned by the Education Fund, 96% of the people who have used adult education support felt that the support was a rather important or very important factor for learning. Similarly, employers whose employees had used the aid felt that the aid was important or rather important. The committee, as the Committee on Gender Equality, drew attention to the fact that this proposal did not carry out gender impact assessments in itself, but it is clear — statistics show that — more women than men use adult education support. Its use has increased strongly recently and women's use has increased more than men's use. When it is estimated that there were 20,000 users of the 2015 aid, 15,000 of them were women and 5,000 were men. In the discussions in the committee, the fact that gender impact assessments should not only reflect on the impact of the law on those who are the majority users, but also on the reasons why the other sex uses less of a benefit or support, and this should be taken into account in these assessments in the future too — in fact, not quite as far as the report is concerned, but I believe that we agree on this. On the other hand, the committee drew attention to the fact that fewer people are studying in the adult education centre who actually need to be trained the most, and that, for example, only 4% of the users of the aid are dependent on basic education alone. We said that the share of entrepreneurs is also small, it is 0.5 per cent. The Committee considered it important that both groups should be given greater encouragement in the field of education. The committee drew attention to the fact that the strengthening of the skills of adults is taking place not only on this adult education aid but also on various other courses for self-employed education, and, of course, on study aid and, in addition to that, on labour market training funded by the Labour Market Administration, or on staff training funded by employers. The Committee considered it important to motivate and encourage people entering the labour market to update their skills and, where necessary, to study and acquire a new profession, and that society should ensure that this is possible because, for example, the increased use of technology requires the acquisition of new skills and knowledge in the professions and the principle of lifelong learning is a valuable means of managing and controlling the structural change in our working life. The committee considered it useful to create an overall picture of the state of adult education, its different options and needs for development in Finland and stressed that an overall study should be carried out on the impact of the ongoing training reforms — not by assessing just one reform, but by assessing all these changes in support for education and training systems, and their impact on the ability to train and the future of Finland’s knowledge base. [First Vice-President Mr Mario Pekkarinen : Mr Kontula. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u158	Good. — Mr Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u161	So, Mr President, on the subject of: The proposal reduces the study opportunities of the working population and limits the number of study months, free months, and also reduces the level of support. The trend is definitely wrong when it is known that education at all stages of the working life is normalising and lifelong learning will increase significantly in the future rather than disappearing. Finland’s national success requires encouraging people to study at different stages of life. Education is needed more than ever and, on the other hand, digitalisation gives us more opportunities than ever. That's why I put forward the rejection of this bill. The fact is that no national economy in the history of the world has ever collapsed because people have been trained too much. On the other hand, many economic difficulties arise from the fact that people have been allowed to study too little. It is good to remember that all studies increase our common national capital, the capital that is most important to our success.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u162	Mr President! I am a friend of education at all, but I am not exactly a friend of over-education and over-education. There is no substitute for quality in education either. Even the smallest cuts in education have been horrified by the opposition in this Chamber, although surely there would be room for rationalisation in our education system. For 15 years we have seen continuous increases in the unemployment of doctors, for example, which our country cannot afford. It is an example of the over-training I mentioned. But in this proposal, the government has assumed that it is right in society to support adult education, especially in terms of employment, and I think that the approach of the committee has been very constructive. Instead of considering education as a decisive pop-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom-pom. I believe that this spirit is also evident in the committee's report, which I consider to be a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u163	Mr President! We Greens are in favour of this bill for three reasons. First of all, this is part of the famous competitiveness pact that we respect. The second reason is that with this proposal we are now presenting, the original really bad proposal by the government, which would have turned adult education aid into a loan form, was rejected. The third reason is that now that it is strongly supported, the changes are small enough to be able to live with them. There are challenges. It has already become clear that one particular challenge is that it is those who most need it, and least of all those who are most likely to need it. It is the least used by entrepreneurs, only 0.5%, and comprehensive school graduates, only 4%, while the majority of the users of the aid are highly educated or at least educated in the profession. When we know the future — a changing and fragmented working life requires a new kind of learning from us — the big question is how to secure a diverse self-development and life-long learning. Labour market training, human resources training are one solution, but the popularity of adult education, which has increased steadily since 2010, is a clear indication that it will continue to be needed at least as much as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u164	Mr President! Now that I have just spoken as chairman of the committee, I would like to say a few words from the point of view of the Socialists. As I said in the previous debate, when a contract is made, we tend to support all the proposals that belong to the whole, be they nice or unpleasant. This in itself is one of the unfortunate proposals if we look at the rapid restructuring of society: we have hundreds of jobs to die in one day and hundreds of jobs to be created in new sectors already in one day. This is about the accelerating change we have. If we look at this whole chain where adult education and adult education support are one of the opportunities for education, then if someone is prevention from the point of view of unemployment, because it starts with the fact that a person is working, recognizes that he needs some new elements to survive in his job or, for example, to get a new qualification — if we have changed qualifications here in some public jobs — that is to say, to train to keep his job. If you look at the results here, the absolute benefit of this whole will be to train those sectors where we have a shortage of labour, such as health and medical work, and then social work. Furthermore, one might say that the education sector is another sector where there is sometimes a shortage of skilled workers — not so much at the moment. In other words, this also responds to the difficulties in the availability of labour. The problem is that this aid is being cut back on its duration, because, in most cases, the problem with our systems is that if you have to acquire a completely new profession, whether it is labour market training or not, then that period of support is not enough. It is enough to complete pieces but not to obtain the vocational qualification, and therefore perhaps the most problematic question is that the duration will be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u165	Mr President! I very much wonder whether I have misunderstood or whether there has been a misstatement if the Greens say that the argument that this is a good weakening is that those who are least in need are the ones who use it the most. On the same basis, university cuts could also be justified, because users are primarily highly educated people. And if what is an existing level of education is a definition of who needs education, then there is no reason to train people in universities any more. I do not think this way, and the experience I have in working life does not support this idea. We currently have a situation in working life where, especially in my age groups and older age groups, there are quite large skills shortages in relation to how rapidly working life changes. Perhaps for the first time in history, we are in a situation where young people come to work with many skills that they have not been able to do for a long time, in relation to digitalisation, the use of machines, the whole of this online world. This has many psychological implications for people's well-being, functional capacity and internal relationships, plus a huge need for retraining, further training and further training. In addition, many people who have used this education support are people who have completed their studies, for example, so that they have gone to work when the thesis is still complete, even though the degree is finished, and then we have received the last months of study peace on that study leave and the degree has been completed in that way. I still think that there is no unnecessary study.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u166	Mr President! It is quite right to ask why those who need the most education do not apply. It is a question of how to provide services to people and how to motivate them to stop the potential development of exclusion. It doesn't happen with magic tricks. In the rural sense, education motivates people to find employment and earn wages — not because of education, but because of entering employment. Both in this education and in other education, it is necessary to avoid idleness and training that does not lead to employment or income from wages. It is also important to take into account work learning and the transfer of quiet information to new students in the field. It does not change at school, the practical knowledge of working life, it does require training in working life and perhaps apprenticeship-type arrangements.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u167	Mr President! That there is no misunderstanding about the Greens' line, I repeat that there are three reasons why it is easy for us to be behind this motion: the first reason is the competitiveness pact, and this legislative package is part of it. The second reason is that this proposal was used to cancel the government's original, much worse proposal, which would have turned adult education aid into a loan. And the third reason is that while the changes are negative, they are small enough to be able to live with them. Instead, I see the challenge of the fact that those who most need this, which is the least educated at the moment, are the least likely to use this form of education. The challenge for the future is, of course, that of enabling only comprehensive schoolers and entrepreneurs to take advantage of this option. And I am also in favour of all other forms of training that will help us to increase our skills and develop them to the level required for the tasks to be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u168	Mr President! I would like to make a comment to Mr Mäkelä. The primary purpose of studying is not to prepare a person for work but to prepare a person for life. What his career will be is terribly difficult to predict in advance. The unemployment of doctors is by no means an indication of over-training, nor is the unemployment of metalmen a sign of over-training in this country, especially because the unemployment rate of doctors is currently 4% and the periods of unemployment are relatively short. We have quite a few warning examples of where the over-orientation of working life in the planning of education leads. The planning of education is done so much early that our systems do not have the ability to anticipate what is the learning content that is somehow relevant to its future working life. This is why, when we have focused too much on the needs of working life, we have been very often misled, trained in a particular sector with more exact qualifications than there will then be jobs in this sector when those people finally graduate from school. On the other hand, we know that the greatest, socially important inventions are usually born by accident when a person has not planned in the wrong place, doing wrong things. The greatest achievements of our education since the theory of evolution have arisen by chance. And if this chance, if there is no room for the goal of searching, if there is no actual study, then we will lose these chances.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u169	Mr President! It is easy to agree with what Mr Kontula said about training people for life rather than competitiveness or working life. But the result that we train people for life is also good for our working life and competitiveness. If you consider why those who depend on comprehensive school and those people who are often said to need the most education, are least educated or not so eager to do so, you might also wonder what the reward is for people who work at different levels of education if you train more. And I dare say that, often in low-paid jobs, more training does not necessarily bring easier working conditions and not necessarily much more pay, so the incentive may be lower. In addition, there may often be some other unpleasant feelings in the history of people who have been left to mere primary school, and therefore the educational enthusiasm is not so great. We should be able to deal with why some of us are born with school fear or a fear of studying or dislike of studying when most people study with their minds and learn new things with their minds. In addition, it would be worth considering why people who depend on a mere primary school who are unemployed are not so happy to go to school. One of the reasons for this is certainly that there is not enough economic potential.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u170	Mr President! As a comment to Congressman Kontula, this theory of evolution was not created by Darwin, but as a result of decades of work. On this point, I agree that the training of over-exact skills is not necessarily meaningful in a changing world. A good example is the gaming industry. It is very likely that, in the time it takes to set up a training programme to train game coders, the game industry has already changed to a position quite different from that of training people and, when they graduate, there is little use for professional skills. But it is a question of the direction in which education is to be taken: whether people who have a fundamental capacity to do this kind of coding, whatever their nature, will be trained. It will always be needed in the future. Many other practical work will be needed in the future but only a small number of certain theoretical areas of competence or areas of competence related to art, and these should not be overeducated. It must also be remembered that these things are done with common money in situations where resources are limited, so it is, of course, great to say as an ideal that we study for life rather than for work, but when the money should be enough for that training.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u171	Mr President! I would also like to comment on why people who have either completed comprehensive school or even left comprehensive school do not apply for this support now being discussed. In my previous life, I have studied those builders who have ended up in the construction industry because they have quite a tangled educational background back there and so many other job opportunities have not been there. They have typically been such bad boys sitting in the backseat, for whom the entire school trail in that elementary school, as long as it has been held on, has been a constant assurance from the teacher and perhaps from other students that you are certainly not a student. And this is not true. Each of us is a student, but in that peer group, they have managed to convince them during nine years of brainwashing that they are not. This was a terribly widely shared experience among the builders I interviewed in my research. I am not surprised that when the authorities repeatedly say this in school and when the school has been standing in the corner year after year or staying in detention because of forgotten items, you will not feel that in your identity this student step would become terribly strong and that you would like to return to the same kind of torture that you have fortunately been able to escape once again. That there is a natural reason why, in this particular group, voluntary, self-involved education is so rare, and we could do quite a lot about it on the comprehensive school side.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u172	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 12/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u173	Mr President! In short, this government proposal, which has now been discussed in committee, is a welcome piece of legislation and clarification. It is a good thing, in principle, that these minor traffic offences and shopliftings of less than 20 daily fines would no longer burden our overcrowded judiciary with such lengthy proceedings in clear and uncontroversial cases. This is, of course, the case that can only be dealt with in uncontroversial cases, but I believe that the majority of citizens are also more satisfied with this light procedure and agree to avoid a heavier trial.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u174	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u175	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen who are still here! I now present to you the bill of law on the amendment of Chapter 1 of the Companies Act. The initiative aims to increase the transparency of a public-funded public-service limited liability company. The Government has heard of the concern of the citizens about the incorporation of public services and has already stated in the past that public limited companies in the field of social and health care will in future be obliged to carry out their duties in a transparent manner. This bill before us has been signed by 105 Members of Parliament. Thank you to all the signatories who so wish to demonstrate that such transparency is essential for democracy. The transfer of task and tax financing to a limited liability company must not be a way of disengageing from the public sphere of activity, and the use of tax resources must also be subject to supervision in limited liability companies. The public’s concern in connection with the regional and social welfare reform has been the ability of the company to keep its information secret as a result of the incorporation of services. This fear is quite justified. The bill before us gives one model to oblige a limited company to operate under the Publicity Act, and I hope that this will be dealt with in committee very carefully, because more than half of the MPs have signed it. The initiative would also help to prevent the recurrence of publicity disasters such as those of Länsimetro Oy, which should cover all companies carrying out public functions. Only by doing so can we maintain public confidence in the transparency and democracy of our society. Mr President! In all its simplicity, the bill aims to add a new Article 10 to Chapter 1 of the Companies Act. the public information of the public limited liability company. As a result, a public limited liability company providing publicly funded services or performing a public service mission should comply with the provisions of the law on the publicity of the activities of public authorities. In addition, paragraph 20 of Article 24(1) of the abovementioned Law, which deals with business and professional secrets, should be interpreted strictly in determining the potential business and professional secrets of the abovementioned companies. So the law would not prevent the concealment of business and professional secrets, but secrecy should always be based on the law. In other respects, the activities should be transparent. You couldn't automatically hide behind the Company Act. It must be admitted that the definition of the companies to which this law should apply is challenging. If the initiative were to be adopted, definitive interpretation practices would probably be defined in the rulings of administrative rights. Transparency is the best way to combat corruption in society. Opening up activities and information will also ensure that citizens and non-governmental organisations can participate in the development of society. Taxpayers have the right to know what and how the tax revenue collected from them is used. The Company Companies Act should not prevent this, but should rather ensure that a company providing public services or carrying out a public service mission is obliged to disclose information relating to its activities. Without transparency, there is no concrete evidence of democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u176	Mr President! Mr Kärnä is on the right track with this bill, and that is why I myself have signed this bill. In practice, in municipal policy, I have noticed this problem with the publicity of the municipality or city companies, i.e. the accounts of general funds are public but the content of the decisions is not. In practice, this means that local government policy tends to hide things rather than expose them to the public as it should. I do not think this is right, and it is already leading to fundamental mistrust. As stated in the initiative, municipalities have set up limited companies for all kinds of purposes, and the intention of some limited companies has certainly been to ensure that, for example, a rigid municipal decision-making process can be overtaken. Some of this has also been a legal obligation to join the EU, and this is particularly important at a time when more companies are likely to become involved as a result of the wars. These include: Cases such as the West Metro are a good example of why such legislation is necessary. Few people really know how decisions have been taken; nevertheless, the costs associated with the use of common tax resources have doubled. The platforms have become too short because automation failed. The metro will be late for six months or God knows how much more, and we taxpayers and decision-makers can only pay and wonder why this has happened. Mr President! In my opinion, the decision-making of a public service company must be as transparent as any other public activity. That is why I support this bill and hope that it will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u177	Mr President! I have signed this very good bill by Mr Kärnä and I also agree with many of the comments made here by Mr Mäkelä. It is great to note that in this Chamber there is unity across government-opposition boundaries. As regards the reform of social security and this particular issue of compulsory company involvement, which is not entirely clear from the point of view of EU law — whether it needs to be done or not, or whether it is above all a political choice — it is as a comfort that it is the public-funded companies that are covered by the law on publicity and administrative law and the law on equality. That's a good thing. The bigger question, then, is that two different laws on public limited liability companies can be created, one for these public-funded companies and the other for private individuals, and how it is done here, it is a big question which, along with and alongside this bill, should also be able to think about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u178	Mr President! This bill by Mr Kärnä to promote the publicity and transparency of the information of the public limited liability company is to be welcomed, and I myself have signed this bill, such as more than a hundred other Members of Parliament. As Mr Kärnä said, the West Metro is a very unfortunate example of the reckless use of tax money, but unfortunately not nearly the only one, of course very large in scope. Broader transparency and publicity would probably have prevented many of these problems with the West Metro. The reform of the social and health services now under preparation and on an historic scale will also mean that transparency will play an even more important role in public limited liability companies. This legislative initiative by Mr Kärnä is therefore very welcome and I hope that it will also proceed in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u179	Mr President! This speaker, Mr Aalto, made an interesting and good observation that already part of the legislation on municipal decision-making applies to companies owned by the municipality, such as this Equality Act, which brings with it gender quotas, to put it in national terms. When it is applied to these companies, there is even less justification for why the transparency laws of municipal decision-making could not also apply to these companies. As a general rule, I believe that Finnish legislation gives far too much weight to the secrets of companies and too much protection by force of law. In general, it should be made easier rather than heavier.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u180	Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank the Members present for these encouraging words and I see it the same way myself. This initiative was signed by 105 MPs — from all parties — and I see this as a strong message from Parliament for transparency and democracy. Thank you again to all those who have signed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u181	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u182	Mr President! Together with several representatives from Lapland, I have taken a legislative initiative to correct the mistake made in the preparation of the fisheries law. The rights of local people were overlooked by mistake in the preparation of the new fishing law and the locals were placed in the same position as tourist fishermen. This can't be reasonable. In the upland areas of migratory fish, large areas of the northern sparsely populated areas should be operated with respect for the local nature-focused lifestyle. The people of the region depend on natural raw materials and have moved to the area just near the watercourses. It is no coincidence that Lapland is largely populated by rivers. This bond with nature and water is very strong to this day. According to the experts I have interviewed, a feeable permit would not be necessary for residents of the Sámi region, but would be sufficient to provide us with information on the fishing and catch levels in the upland areas. This information should be available on fisheries in the regions in order to clarify the correct state of fishing and fish stocks. The sustainability of migratory fish stocks requires comprehensive information, but according to any knowledge, local bait fishing does not pose a threat to migratory fish stocks. Mr President! Metsähallitus was also in the belief that local fishing in the municipalities of the Sami region will continue free of charge also with the new fishing law. These changes now in hand came as a surprise to all. Sometimes mistakes happen to legislators, and Parliament must take responsibility for correcting these errors. The bill proposes that a person whose municipality of residence within the meaning of Article 2 of the Municipality of residence is Enontekio, Inari or Utsjoki should be entitled to a free permit from Metsähallitus for fishing in the waters belonging to the State in the municipalities mentioned above. This authorisation would be personal and would be granted for three years at a time. It would be possible to obtain a corresponding personal permit for salmon and trout in the watercourses of Teno and Näätämö, Tuulojoki and Paatsjoki, Tornio and Ounas rivers, but this permit would always be granted for a year at a time. Further provisions on the granting and use of permits could be adopted by a decree of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. It is very important that fishing is organised in all its aspects in a sustainable way, but taking into account local people. Forests and watercourses are Lappish ballet and opera. Let's not take them away from them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u183	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u184	Mr President! The best thing about the overall reform of alcohol legislation in preparation is to reduce the burden of regulation in restaurants. Let us hope that the reforms that have been proposed will go through. They really help the restaurant business, and they really help when people want to move alcohol from homes to restaurants. As far as this proposal itself is concerned — if I say a little popularly with this general throw that the VAT rate on alcohol sold in the restaurant is dropped to the 12%, that is, the same level as the food sold in the restaurants — it is a single step forward. It will not solve the problem itself, because it will in practice affect the price of a pint perhaps 20 cents and in practice this benefit will go to the margins. Instead of making such individual deductions, I would recommend that we consider our tax system as a whole to be renewed, that we should go towards the common goal, whose name is "extensive but relatively low tax bases", instead of constantly drilling into our tax base for new deductions, exceptions. It does not operate in accordance with the basic principle of this fiscal system, nor does it promote or promote neutrality. Instead of making such small new drillings, I recommend a wider tax renovation, and it would be desirable that, when the best time for corporate tax reform is planned in a civil servant-led way, its work could then draw conclusions in January-February and make a broad tax reform for Finland on the basis of the Committee, where we are moving towards large but relatively small tax rates.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u185	Mr President! After all, the reform of the Alcohol Act is on the way, and I hope that it can take account of such individual good openings, as is the supportable bill for the amendment of the VAT Act by Mr Pelkonen. In the explanatory statement, we can read what we already know, I am sure, that in the restaurant sector, there has been a constant decline in the number of years that have passed. However, the consumption of alcohol has not significantly decreased, and imports from Estonia to the capital region have increased, so that there is no need for an on-call docent to say that the development is a bad one. Unfortunately, I did not see myself signing this bill — I hope that the new electronic signature of the bill will help this problem so that good initiatives are not missed. But I am definitely in favour of measures to shift alcohol consumption to restaurants. Finns do not impose any more alcohol consumption, but if consumption takes place in a place that employs more than home alarms, it is easy to support that. Mr President! The presentation states that drinking is a social and controlled way of drinking alcohol. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u186	Mr President! VAT is a very important tool for financing Finnish society. It will raise a total of around EUR 20 billion per year. Without further commenting on this particular proposal, however, I hope that when we go down the road to the VAT rate, we will take account of the whole and its effectiveness in the Finnish tax collection and in maintaining society. The EU allows us three different VAT rates in addition to the zero rate. They are all useful in Finland, but there are also very different systems in the world. Denmark, for example, has taken the practice that there is exactly one VAT rate, which applies to food, medicines and all other products, and has been able to squeeze the VAT rate on all 20 percentage points when it is considerably higher in Finland, for example, from services and goods. The VAT rate is therefore such an important means of generating income for Finnish society that I do not want to split it up with individual initiatives, and I would like to remind you once in a while that every now and then there are speeches on how to help low-income earners, that it is the weakest or at least one of the weakest instruments. It's exactly the same as if you went out to shoot a shotgun with a terrible one: some shotgun hits, but a lot of the shotguns sink outside. It is worth collecting VAT from all of us on good income.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u187	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u188	Mr President! The legislative initiative under discussion is part of the green alternative budget for 2017. The 5% entrepreneurship reduction proposed by the Government is intended to support entrepreneurship and extend the benefits of the recent reduction in corporate tax to personal enterprises. A significant proportion of small and micro-enterprises are persons enterprises that play a key role in improving employment. The downside of a steady, formula-based entrepreneurship reduction is that the benefits come from large and very successful individuals, such as pharmacists, law firms and the like. The Greens therefore argue that a ceiling of EUR 50000 should be set in order to compensate for the income-sharing effects on entrepreneurship reduction. In practice, this means that all individual companies would receive a reduction up to that limit, but for a result of more than EUR 50000, a reduction of 5 % would no longer be granted. This would cut the benefits of entrepreneurship reduction for the most successful companies, but the incentive effect would remain at the level proposed by the government in other companies. According to the calculations of the Parliamentary Information Service, this model will increase tax revenue by approximately EUR 23 million. The smartest thing would be to target different tax reductions and reductions as well as incentives for direct employment measures. A concrete example would be, for example, the abolition of the additional costs of hiring the first external worker for a one-year period. This would be the most effective way of supporting employment, and this proposal would also get the most far-reaching part of the government's objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u189	Mr President! I would like to support this good initiative. I am well aware of the government's objective of harmonising the tax treatment of different companies by means of entrepreneurship reduction, but, as has been said many times in this Chamber, the problem is that the introduction of entrepreneurship reduction as proposed by the government would direct much of its benefits to well-off companies. According to the Parliamentary Information Service, almost half of the total value of the entrepreneurial deduction would be directed to the highest grade, i.e. the highest-earning tithe of the entrepreneurial field. This green cap draws the limit to EUR 50000, which means that entrepreneurs with a result greater than EUR 50000 will also receive a reduction of EUR 50000. In practice, this would mean that the best-earning entrepreneurs would save 20 million for other purposes. This would be better suited to people's sense of justice and the money would be needed: it could be used to maintain, for example, the reimbursement of medicines for type two diabetics.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u190	Mr President! This bill by Mr Vartia is in parallel with the Government's proposal for a 5% reduction in entrepreneurship, which facilitates the operating and employment conditions of companies in accordance with the Government Programme. In this legislative initiative, Mr Vartia proposes an upper limit beyond which entrepreneurship reduction would no longer be granted. Mr President! In my view, this formulad ceiling for entrepreneurship reduction proposed by Mr Vartia would further increase the progress of our taxation and, at the same time, reduce incentives for business growth to the extent that the threshold of EUR 50000 proposed in this bill would be exceeded. There is no similar problem in the original government proposal on entrepreneurship reduction, which would be granted to all personnel companies. I therefore prefer the government's original proposal in this regard, because we need companies that are motivated by growth and job creation. Mr President! It is true that attention should continue to be paid to improving the operating conditions of the smallest companies, but this has already been done by the government, including the introduction of a bill relating to the payment-based VAT account into Parliament, and other proposals are also coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u191	Mr President! The fear of this threshold effect by the recent representative is pointless, because if the profits are more than EUR 50000, this bill would not take away a cent from them, not one euro from the entrepreneurial deduction they earn up to EUR 50000. For more than that, the entrepreneurial deduction would simply no longer be available. Parliament's Information Service has calculated that this solution would still make the highest decile of entrepreneurship reduction the most beneficial, but the benefits of those making the most would fall from the initial 55 million to around 35 million euros — i.e. the government would leave EUR 20 million more than expected for other expenditure, even if for the good purposes that could support the potential of the smallest self-employed to employ more.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u192	Mr President! As Mr Järvinen pointed out, this ceiling for the Greens does not bring any funny marginal tax threshold to this proposal; it is exactly what Mr Järvinen said here. So the question is precisely that the ceiling applies to EUR 50000. All those who are part of it will get that return, including the richest entrepreneurs, but indeed there will be no more on top of the EUR 50,000. Of course, it is understandable that all this kind of border fences are always somewhat artificial, but it is a smaller problem than what is definitely a steak here, i.e. that when the money is low, that money must be able to focus as smartly as possible so that it supports the best way of employment and entrepreneurship. This proposal distributes most of the euro to those who, in practice — at least according to the expert estimates of the tax section — are unable to use it for employment and employment. That is why it is always smarter to use them for direct employment and to support incentives to do so. That is why I also put forward the idea of supporting entrepreneurship and business growth in the way in which the costs of remuneration for the first external worker are forgiven for a period of one year for the person who hires the first external worker.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u193	Mr President! Indeed, I had correctly interpreted this bill by Mr Vartia, and I understood from the outset that this really means that these companies, whose taxable result is more than EUR 50000, will also receive an entrepreneurial discount up to the limit of EUR 50000, so in that sense these comments by the representatives Järvinen and Aalto were unnecessary. In any case, however, I personally consider this lack of incentive effect to be problematic in the sense that we must have sufficient motivation for growth for our companies. It is precisely this increase in employment that is absolutely one of the most important objectives of this government, and that is what we must strive for with all the measures, so I repeat that I believe that this initial government proposal on entrepreneurship reduction is much clearer and does not include any steps either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u194	Mr President! When discussing this entrepreneurial reduction, it is good to remember that the taxation of personal enterprises is always cheaper than the taxation of limited liability companies — it should be taken into account at this stage. And because of the attempt to equalise this tax treatment, this argument is a bit absurd that it is now necessary to reduce the tax burden on passenger companies, because it is already much lighter. If we want to equalise the effects, then, in fact, the taxation of passenger companies And I will just repeat that when there is little money, it is worth focusing on the best way to support employment and entrepreneurship. In this situation, most of the euro goes to the highest income decile and its impact on employment and entrepreneurship is very, very small and even theoretical.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u195	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. In this context, the debate will also be allowed from 11 to 15 May on the agenda. on the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u196	Mr President! I have prepared my own separate speeches on all these budget initiatives, but since this was the wish, as far as the central assembly is concerned, to take them together, my speech will be a little longer. Mr President! First, this bill is a law amending Article 2 of the Law on excise duties on liquid fuels. The bill under discussion is indeed part of the Greens' alternative budget for 2017, and in order to make it easier for people and easier for colleagues to follow up, I will answer four questions: what is the question, what are we asking, what is the impact of the proposal and why are we proposing this bill? Mr President! It is therefore a question of 11 different tax subsidies, which exceed EUR 2 billion, exclusively for energy tax revenues. The second most important of the tax subsidies on the energy tax item is lower taxation on fuel used in machinery. Tax subsidies therefore arise from the fact that certain machinery has been given the right to use light fuel oil which is less taxed than diesel. Light fuel oil is used, for example, in non-road mobile machinery with diesel engines and in agricultural and forestry machinery. What is remarkable is that the use of light fuel oil in Finland has decreased from 2.5 million tonnes in ten years to 1.5 million tonnes in ten years. So roughly half of it is used for heating and half for machinery. The amount of tax support for 2017 is estimated at EUR 451 million, which is allocated only to fuel oil used in machinery. Therefore, I would stress that we are not proposing an increase in the tax on light fuel oil used for heating, because it does not include tax subsidies. Mr President! We propose that less than a quarter of the tax aid should be cut, less than a quarter. Technically, this can be achieved, for example, by transferring taxable light fuel oil users to diesel but returning some of the taxes to them in the context of taxation. This is because the tax increase of EUR 451 million at a one-off rate is disproportionate. We will return EUR 341 million to machine users through a system such as energy tax refunds for agriculture. Mr President! The combined effect of this proposal on central government finances is about EUR 110 million. It should be noted that the proposal slightly increases the costs of agriculture, forestry and civil engineering, but creates incentives to switch to biogas tractors, for example. Mr President! We are proposing a legislative initiative because it will give us EUR 110 million in the state's treasury to compensate for the savings in education and training. Of course, we understand the impact of the alternative surgery, which is why we kept it as reasonable as possible and we create an incentive to move away from or reduce the use of light fuel oil. Next, a bill on this amendment of Article 11 of the Motor Vehicle Tax Act: The purpose of the proposal is therefore to ensure that our second legislative initiative, the reduction of the reduced rate for diesel, does not lead to a change in the tax treatment between diesel and petrol cars, and the rising fuel price is compensated by a reduced vehicle tax. I would therefore stress that the ordinary diesel driver will not suffer from this performance. Mr President! Since our actual proposal for reduced rates for diesel is not in this Chamber today, but a proposal for a vehicle tax law that compensates for it, I will tell you in this context what it is all about. It is therefore a case of a total diesel consumption of around 2.5 million tonnes in 2015. Roughly half of this is for passenger cars and half for heavy goods transport. The tax subsidy received by Diesel is estimated at 767 million next year compared to the tax treatment of petrol, i.e. gross. It is therefore based on a reduction in the energy content tax, with a subsidy of 26 cents per litre. The normal diesel driver will not benefit from this, as the tax subsidy will be deducted from the motor vehicle tax through the propulsion tax. The tax subsidy received by Diesel for next year is therefore EUR 489 million net. Then what do we suggest? We propose that the tax subsidy be reduced by 7.44 cents per litre. We propose a reduction in the power tax on passenger cars so that there is no change in the tax treatment between diesel and petrol cars. The rising fuel price shall be credited with a reduced vehicle tax. The ordinary diesel driver — I repeat: the ordinary diesel driver — is therefore not suffering from this performance. The proposed reduction in the reduced tax rate for diesel will result in additional revenue of EUR 220 million for the State. The proposed reduction of the driving power tax on passenger cars will reduce the tax revenue of the State by EUR 120 million. Tax subsidies will be reduced from EUR 489 million in total to EUR 389 million, i.e. by just over 20%. In the case of goods and public transport, the price of fuel will rise by about 8 cents per litre, or roughly from 1.22 to 1.30 euros, i.e. by around 6%. We are therefore proposing this because we are now getting EUR 100 million into the state treasury without affecting passenger cars other than, at most, by making the more expensive fuel more attractive to reduce the number of kilometres. In the field of industrial and commercial transport, there is an incentive to favour rail transport more, among other things, as well as liquefied natural gas, i.e. LNG trucks in the future. The competitive position of biogas and electric buses will also improve. The main reason, however, is that we are trying to find a less harmful cut-off rather than a training cut and, at the same time, speeding up the renewal of transport. Mr President! Then, this bill from item 11, i.e. the bill for the amendment of Article 33b of the Income Tax Act. At present, dividends from non-listed companies are taxed relatively lightly up to a certain limit. Lighter taxation will extend up to EUR 150000, if that rate of return is 8 %, that is possible. Current dividend taxation steers resources away from material and intangible real investments relevant to the company’s actual business towards securities and unspent investment assets. The light taxation of dividends also contributes to the growth of income differentials. Then what are we supposed to be? We propose that the euro threshold should be reduced to EUR 60000 and that the rate of return should be reduced to 4%, which would be better in line with the so-called standard yield limit. Tighter taxation of dividends paid by non-listed companies would also make the conversion of income from earned income less profitable. Mr President! Under the green option, the total amount of permanent revenue and expenditure is the same as that of the government, but we do not cut off the weaker and do not increase the income gap, quite the contrary. It is essential to note that, even in tough economic times, it is possible to make a fair and humane economic policy. With these solutions, the government favours those on good income and takes low incomes. The tax reductions associated with the Kiki agreement are strongly directed towards high and medium-income employees, in euro terms. At the same time, the Government will cut EUR 200 million from index-linked benefits. This is a completely irresponsible equation which increases income differentials and, above all, the sense that society is not in the same boat and is not fair to all its members. Silly tax cuts and massive cuts in social security are an arrogant combination. It is therefore possible to reduce income disparities and reduce poverty. The tax model presented by the Greens favours people with low and middle incomes, as well as beneficiaries of benefits and pensions. We want to ensure that we maintain the core of the welfare state, the well-being of people, including in times of strong economic change. We therefore propose a significant increase in the basic deduction of municipal tax and a reasonable increase in the reduction in labour income. Tax changes will then be financed through the dividend tax on non-listed companies, among other things. What needs to be taken into account is that, as a whole, the tax reforms proposed by the Greens and the fight against index cuts clearly reduce the income gap — the Gini factor is less than 0.34 percentage points — and reduce poverty. This will improve the purchasing power of the low-income ones, which will contribute to revitalising the domestic market. Mr President! Paragraph 15 of the order of business, i.e. a bill of law amending Article 125 of the Income Tax Act: The key point here is that through the Kiki agreement, as I pointed out earlier, the percentage of tax reductions is directed at everyone in the same way, but not in euros, and that is why we are proposing a significant increase in the basic deduction of municipal tax and a reasonable increase in the reduction in labour income. Work income reduction in our model Mr President! I will try to run these things quickly and move on to point 12 of the order of business, the bill of law on the amendment of Article 93 of the Income Tax Act. The key point is that in the 2016 alternative budget, we are looking for EUR 200 million for the proposed training and research cuts as an alternative to EUR 200 million for environmentally harmful subsidies. At the time, we proposed pinching the overcompensation of the kilometric allowance, not abolishing the kilometric allowance, and reducing the reduction in commuting. This would have prevented government cuts to early childhood education, comprehensive school quality and group funding, polytechnics, universities and Tekes. In the 2017 alternative budget, we propose that next year some EUR 300 million cuts in vocational training, study aid, free education, basic education, preparatory education, the Academy of Finland and R & D funding will be replaced by cuts in subsidies for fossil fuels and the abandonment of new subsidies for companies that are harmful to the environment. Mr President! As far as this proposal is concerned, I will bring to Parliament's attention the following points: An employee may reduce the cost of travelling for work in taxation. For journeys between the dwelling and the workplace, the allowance is currently EUR 750 per year and the maximum amount is EUR 7000 per year. Travel expense reduction reduces the tax rate and hence taxable income. According to a joint report by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Finance on harmful subsidies, the net impact on government and local government revenue in 2013 was approximately EUR 630 million. The reduction in commuting is paid according to the cheapest mode of transport, but in practice it is clear support for private car transport. In fact, private motorists are paid about 80% of these reductions. Contrary to what is generally imagined, reductions focus on private car use in the spending limits of large growth centres. The current reduction system will increase traffic by providing an indirect incentive to move further away from the job. There are several motives behind the fragmentation of land use, but this is one of them. This reduction can therefore be regarded as environmentally harmful aid, even though it has other reasons. In the longer term, the Greens are thinking of moving towards a less bureaucratic and more climate-friendly kilometre-based system. This could be based on the distance from the job. The size of the reduction could be influenced by whether or not there is any public transport available in the region. In other words, the reduction would be greater in rural areas than in cities. The reductions affect some 800,000 people, so they have a major impact on the economy of many people. That is why these amendments must be moderate. We propose that, at this stage, the level of the reduction should be reduced from EUR 750 to EUR 900 and the ceiling should be reduced to EUR 6000. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u197	Mr President! I was not quite aware of the arrangement that these could be discussed in the same context, so I have reserved the floor for my own points. I hope it does not become an insurmountable problem. But this whole package, this alternative budget for the Greens and the associated tax laws, is, in one word, ideological. In other words, in my opinion, at least the presentation of an increase in fuel taxes is unfortunate; it is not at all nice to me, but the Greens put it in such a way that it would be nice, and yes, I think it is quite ideological. This is not the day when you can agree with the Greens about something. On the contrary, I do not understand this green perk attacking so-called environmentally harmful subsidies, which in Finnish means attacking Finnish work and livelihood. For the Greens I can tell them that living and living in northern Finland is in principle harmful to the environment if we are to move, live and work here. In this first presentation of this legislation on excise duty on fuels, the Greens want to vaccinate work on machinery. That's what it means. Light fuel oil should not be used in the machine, but rather more expensive diesel should be used. I would therefore like to ask the Greens whether you think they are moving too much in this country at the moment. Do we really have too many jobs in the provinces that should now be actively reduced? And do contractors now make money using light fuel oil? It'll cost money, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u198	Mr President! A number of legislative initiatives signed by Aalto and other Green MPs are being discussed in the Parliament today and, unfortunately, most of them would increase the tax rate and at the same time reduce the conditions for entrepreneurship and work. These legislative initiatives include, inter alia, a proposal to reduce the tax subsidy on light fuel oil used in machinery and a second bill to cut the right to deduct travel expenses. In addition, Mr Vartia's bill on entrepreneurship reduction, which would set a ceiling of EUR 50000 per year for the calculation of entrepreneurship reduction, was discussed earlier today. Mr President! Most of these legislative initiatives seem to increase incentives for taking up and trying work. The green ideology is reflected, in particular, in Mrs Aalto's bill to cut travel expenses. This bill would reduce people’s chances of moving to and living in the countryside. Representative Aalto's bill would both increase the share of travel expenses and reduce the ceiling on travel expenses. I consider this to be a bad starting point for people in rural areas to be able to work, and this could also contribute to an increase in housing prices in growth centres. Mr President! We must remember that increasing work in the private sector is of paramount importance for Finland's future. As our economy grows, we can also guarantee good living conditions for future generations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u199	Mr President! I understand, of course, that these speeches have been written earlier and not after my speech, but perhaps that is why I would like to highlight a few points. As far as ideology is concerned, the Committee on Finance has been consulted several times, including by representatives of the State Financial Institute, who regard these harmful business subsidies as one of the obstacles to growth and development, such as pro-business thinking, which preserves the current structure, cements the current structure, and creates barriers to growth for market-based activities. As regards, among other things, this reduction in commuting costs, I repeat: 80% of these subsidies are currently going to growth centres, agglomerations where different forms of public transport are easily available — that is, 80% is going this way. And as I described that in our system, so in my opinion this kind of zone system is the most wise, i.e. supporting the movement of your own car more where there is no public transport, Viitasaari, all over the provinces, and giving less support then in growth centres where there are different options to use public transport. As far as light fuel oil is concerned, as I said about that, the total consumption of diesel in 2015 was 2.5 million tonnes, ten years earlier it was 1.5 million tonnes. This tells us of the natural development that has taken place. There is a lot of talk about the bioeconomy — would it not be encouraging in the spirit of the bioeconomy to create such tax incentives, incentivises, for example, to use biogas more and more, and rather use diesel than that light fuel oil? It is wiser and it has environmental guidance and structural reform always involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u200	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u201	Mr President! I would like to ask briefly about this when the Green Parliamentary Group is changing this Article 33b of the Income Tax Act and the bill states that current dividend taxation is channelling resources away from material and intangible real investments that are important for the company's actual business towards securities and unspent investment assets: What do you mean, steer? What exactly is the basis for this argument? Is there an expert opinion, an impact assessment, or has the argument about the wind been taken away?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u202	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u203	Mr President! If the Greens’ earlier initiative attacked a work machine contractor, with this initiative the Greens are now attacking car racing, as a stick horse a commuter reduction. I cannot understand this hatred of employers and workers from the opposition and, in this case, the hatred of people outside the capital region who work in their own car. In their initiative, the Greens argue that the current reduction system will increase traffic because it encourages people to move away from work. I come from the province itself, Lappeenranta, where very few places can live and work without my own car. It seems as if the Greens are separated from this reality in the provinces when they present this. I therefore recommend that the greens of growth centres sometimes visit the provinces and a few days of experimenting on how to work without their own car when the bus just doesn't run. It could broaden the perspective a little bit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u204	Mr President! From time to time, there is a sensible debate in this Chamber that listens to what the other representative says and then reacts to it. I come from the province of Central Finland. I spend a great deal of time in Northern and Central Finland, including Viitasaari and Saarijärvi, and I know exactly that there is no bus going there and that using my own car is absolutely necessary. That is why I hope that when I speak here, it will have some effect on the next speech. That is why I pointed out here that the Greens are trying to think, among other things, through the creation of a system such as this, that in rural areas, in urban areas where there is no public transport in the same way as in this area outside the Parliament House, those compensations would be larger and even here in the capital region a little smaller. The current model directs 80% of all euros purely around the capital region and growth centres, where there are many options to develop the system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u205	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u206	Mr President! In this initiative, the Greens are now attacking the diesel driver after the earlier attacks on machine contractors and those who work in the car. In the past, Mrs Aalto suggested that this measure, this proposal, would, however, generate a sum of three-digit savings in the state treasury, but in another speech it was as if nothing were going to change. What is this truth now? If this does not in any way harm the Finnish diesel driver, what will the three-digit millions be taken of?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u207	Once again, it would be easier to have a debate if the speech I have spoken and the speeches that have been made here were to be heard by all my fellow Members. The question was that the ordinary diesel driver does not have to pay any more for passenger transport, but, of course, professional transport costs a little more, that is quite clear. At the same time, however, incentives are being created for, among other things, the introduction of LNG trucks — a great deal has been said about these biogases — and the introduction of biogas and electric cars, for example, is quite clear. This is where the euro comes from, which was just described. It is good to understand that, on the other hand, the power tax will be returned to ordinary people, to diesel drivers, to bring back the amount of euro, so that the ordinary diesel driver sees that the fuel is rising, yes, to some extent, but there will be a reduction in the power tax of EUR 120 million, which in practice will enable him to see that the fuel price is rising slightly. Well, in that case, it doesn't affect the net assets at all, but it gives an incentive even if you think a little about the driving traffic, which creates an incentive to think about those own kilometres and to think about it in another way, so that even a small incentive is involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u208	Mr President! I have the answer to my question, which is that the question now seems to be that, in a speculative way, this could have the effect that it would not be a problem if people started to act as the Greens in their ideological line, that is to say, to purchase such vehicles and to do what the Greens want. This is something that has become unusually clear. I'm not the one who disagrees.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u209	Mr President! Even if a diesel driver drives any kind of car, an ordinary diesel driver when the power tax is reduced and is an increase in fuel, the effect remains neutral. That is precisely why we want to do this so that there will be no further pressure on the ordinary diesel driver. It's in there. I can come and explain this. But it is true that there will then be additional costs in heavy traffic, in professional transport, that is clear. If we want to cut less research, education and science and replace those training cuts, we have to bring those alternative cuts somewhere. We are trying to think about them in such a way that our cuts do not target a purely individual occupational group and that when they target a certain number of all occupational groups, of course, they would be as reasonable as possible. That is precisely why we are making these compensations, which were at issue here when I presented this amendment to the vehicle tax law. It is precisely in the case of a power tax that we compensate the ordinary diesel driver for the rising price of his fuel.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u210	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u211	Mr President! After all, this proposal in itself is not bad in principle if we forget that something like money has been invented. Of course, it would be a nice thing to be able to reduce the tax burden on low incomes, I do not deny that, and when the opposition is proposing a tax reduction instead of a tax increase, it is always a positive thing. But I wouldn't go out with this light food to split money off the property. At least the presentation does not quickly read the expression, which is the cost effect, how much is lost here and how this kind of money will be covered. Where does the money come from for the provision of municipal services, which are also widely used by these taxpayers of reduced tax?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-27-ps-108.u212	Mr President! If it is particularly difficult to follow up the speeches I have made in the toilet, then I can send this alternative budget to everyone who is interested in it, it will also be possible to check these figures. This is precisely what has been said earlier today about the impact of the Kiki agreement on low-income workers in the public sector, and also on other beneficiaries and pensioners. The basic deduction of municipal tax is one of the most important, best ways to help the most low-income people, beneficiaries and also pensioners. As we currently have the bottom line of economic growth coming from the pockets of a normal person, we want to support, precisely through a reduction in labour income and through a basic reduction in municipal tax, that ordinary people have enough money for food, money for medicines and money for basic living. When we mentioned here earlier — as Mr Savio also mentioned these tax increases — that we certainly have tax increases, we also have spending cuts here in many places. They have sought a balance between permanent expenditure and revenue in exactly the same way as the government. It has been tried to think that if we want to cut down from place A a little money, then what will target it within the budget, within the spending limits to place B. We will try to think about what is the least harmful way to protect research, education and science above all. We also believe that some places should be presented, because there really is no money coming from any machine or from heaven or wood.
