ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 1/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Let us move on to the debate: first of all, Mr Mattila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u2	Madam President! This proposal proposes to amend the law on the municipal civil servant, the municipal contract law and the law on civil servants. It is proposed that the resignation of a municipal official and a State official should be gradually increased in line with the proposed increase in the age up to which the pension is accrued in the employment pension legislation. The possibility of appeal by an official outside the municipal contract would also be broadened. The proposal also proposes to include in the Act on the municipal office holder a provision on the application of the Interest Rate Act concerning the delay in the claim based on the municipal service relationship. The committee considers the proposals to be justified. From the beginning of 2017, public sector pension provision is laid down in the Pensions Act of the Public Sectors, according to which the upper age limit for pension accumulation will gradually increase. A similar change has already been made for persons in employment contracts. The claims arising from the public law criterion are currently excluded from the application of the Interest Rates Act, resulting in the unequal status of the municipality’s staff in service and employment contracts. The addition of the provisions on the payment of interest on late payment provided for in the draft law is considered to contribute to the equality of staff. The provisions shall apply when the official collects from the employer a delayed benefit or when the employer recovers from the office holder an overpayment or undue payment of the benefit. A similar amendment has been made to the State Civil Service Act in the past. The current municipal law on collective agreements has established a non-organisational ban on appeal. He has had the opportunity to refer his case to the Administrative Court. It is now proposed to amend the legislation in such a way that the right to appeal is guaranteed by law by a municipal official who is not party to a contract. In the interests of clarity and legal certainty, the committee considers it important that the right of appeal of an unorganised post be based on the law. A similar appeal is provided for by law for unorganised civil servants. Thus, the amendment of the law means that the non-organised official may make an appeal or a municipal appeal in respect of benefits resulting from the employment relationship, and the corresponding choice has also been made in the amendment of the State Civil Service Act. The proposal is therefore consistent. Such matters are often related to the interpretation of collective agreements. In such a case, a special knowledge of the conditions of collective agreements will be ensured by the Administrative Court, before deciding on the case, seeking an opinion from the Labour Court, which is also referred to in the detailed explanatory memorandum of the proposal. In the view of the committee, a legislative solution whereby the regulation of the right of appeal is transferred to the municipal law, i.e. to other appeals provisions relating to the holder of the post, can be considered appropriate for the holder of the post and, once again, a similar choice has been made in the amendment to the State Civil Service Act. This proposal is therefore consistent. The Committee notes that the proposed changes improve the legal status of municipal officials and promote equal treatment. The committee supports the adoption of legislative proposals without amendment and the report by the Administrative Committee is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u3	Madam President! The government's proposal to amend the regulations on municipal officials is a good example of the preparation of matters in consultation with the social partners. The essential content of the amendment, the gradual increase in the retirement age of officials to 70 years of age, is ultimately based on the agreement of the social partners on pension reform. The aim of the pension reform is to ensure the sustainable financing of future pensions without unduly high contributions on the basis of the funding. This objective is also important in the municipal sector, perhaps especially there, because the future pension system of municipalities can be challenged by the structural change in municipal service production. As municipalities outsource services, the basis for raising pension contributions is gradually narrowing. At the same time, large age groups of local government experts are moving into the ranks of pensioners. Mr President! Raising the retirement age is a legitimate objective. The increase in the age of resignation in line with the proposal is a necessary factor in achieving this objective. But it's just a component. Retirement is not just a matter of official retirement age. The average retirement age is significantly lower than the highest retirement age. This can be effectively influenced by improving the performance of workers. In the municipal sector, this ability could be influenced not only by action at the workplace level but also by a clear message on the future of the local government sector. Today, municipal officials and employees are living in uncertainty about their future jobs. The creator of uncertainty is the Government's vague position on the future division of duties between municipalities, joint municipal authorities and regions. The plans known to the government are such that they do not really need to be called dim. Make sure that the people of the municipalities have peace of work, and the people will be able to work longer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u4	Madam President! This report is now in the form of a legislative proposal which follows on from the fact that the three-pronged pension reform has been agreed during the previous term of government and that these changes have already been made in previous stages for workers. Now there is reason and need to make these same changes to the accumulation of pension until the age of 70 also for municipal officials. At the same time, for the sake of fairness, a position has now been taken on interest and the right of appeal, so that municipal officials have the same and equal rights, inter alia, with State officials. In this way it improves the legal status and promotes equality so that we have all the officials, whether they are on the side of the municipality or the state or are in a contract of employment, treated equally. I hope that this same approach, namely that of tripartite preparation, will continue to be the subject of all major reforms, particularly in relation to these pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u5	Mr President! However, I would now like to make this reply because Mr Tuppurainen and now Mr Paatero referred here earlier to the dignity behind this: the tripartite agreement. It has been Finland's asset all along, and of course it has been very worrying that this period we have seen what has happened in this process when we have left through forced laws by dictating and tightening up reforms: nothing will happen. That is why I wanted to say once again in this context that yes, listen, it is a good thing, Mr Government, that we could continue to work together in the future, with respect for the contractual society, to take forward such major reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u6	Mr President! We are delighted to welcome this carefully prepared change, which will clarify many things and bring relevance and equality to the whole of this pension reform. I would therefore like to thank the Administrative Committee for its good work and for its clear report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u7	Mr President! It is clear that the proposal is a very good step in that we also appreciate the expertise of our seniors more than we do at present. This, however, gives rise to further reflection when we have officials on what we actually need to resign for. Even our 70s are beginning to be, you know, in pretty good shape, and many of them would like to go on longer. There are many of our representatives here who will continue to the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u8	Mr President! Representative Lauslahti raised an important issue. After all, when this pension decision was made last season in good cooperation with the three sides, if I remember correctly, there was also the idea at the table that this so-called flexible retirement age would be raised, but I think it was the case that it stopped those who were most concerned with extending careers at the end. So employers have been holding back the idea that people can work after 68 years. Employers have wanted to retain their own right to retire, if necessary by that age. If I understood correctly, this would have been agreed on by the worker, and in this respect Mr Lauslahti's speech is a good one. But as far as this matter is concerned, this is really part of the pension solution that was reached during the last term of government. In this context, I can't help but look at this government's labour market policy as a metaphor. After all, the previous bourgeois government, led by Vanhanen, tried to solve this pension solution — it was not successful. Then the Social Democrats came to the government and this was done by agreeing — successful. Even in the 1990s, the last time a central prime minister was present, the labour market was even on the brink of a general strike threat when attempts were being made again — failed. And now, Mr President, every time you learn from history, learn from your mistakes, this government should learn from it. Finland needs to be reconciled, not dictated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u9	Madam President! Yes, I welcome this excellent, refreshing idea from Mr Lauslahti with joy. Here, too, I am approaching sixty, and there are only 50 left, so it is wonderful to think that there is still a use. But at the same time, of course, we can ask how this atmosphere would change so that these 50 plus unemployed people would get jobs and this debate would change slightly in that direction. Thank you, Lauslahti, for a good opening.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u10	Mr President! Very wise and sensible speeches have been heard here. This actually brings such a social debate, whether we are here as social influences or in working life, how we can combine the enthusiasm of youth and a little madness with the power of experience and thus break it, you could say when talking about women's glass ceilings, the glass ceilings of seniors. In that regard, it can be said that this government proposal is a very good step and, in fact, also a gesture of knowledge that we have in our experienced seniors. I hope that we will be able to take this issue forward here in Parliament, because our society does need a debate. If a person in his 50 ’ s is getting too old for the labour market, something has gone really wrong. I would see that it is our job to set our own example of the need for senior citizens as well as young people in working life.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u11	Madam President! The fact that this government proposal is well prepared and well-founded has come to light during this debate. That's right. But I would like to say a few thoughts about this. Mr Lindtman has just praised the way things have sometimes been handled and how they are handled today. We must remember, however, the cold fact that the collective bargaining currently taking place, for example, on the social pact, is all right, good negotiations, and we must remember that this is where the government and the Prime Minister of the country have tried to promote these negotiations throughout this parliamentary term, from the very beginning to the full and serious.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u14	Mr President! It is good that pensions are being discussed, and Mrs Lauslahti raised the objective of extending working careers. Of course, an example is important for each of us, but it is also essential how working life is developed. In that sense, the social pact and what can now be achieved between the social partners would be important and there would also be elements that would strengthen the division of work and the extension of careers. After all, the government plays a very important and central role, has played a role in the past, and once the Social Democracies have been in the government, this has been regarded as a very important issue and many programmes have also confirmed that people's careers will be extended. I hope that the same approach will now be found in this situation. Unemployment is a big thing, and it is a burden on our economy. We are in a dual situation where, on the one hand, unemployment should be reduced and employment should be strengthened, and that is where the government has the means, but at the same time because of this social security and the financing of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u15	Madam President! I do not understand what Mr Hoskonen has said anymore. He speaks here that the opposition should take responsibility now. The opposition has been very responsible all along, the Social Democrats have been in favour of a social pact being established, a labour market solution must be created in agreement. We have even offered Lauri Ihalainen, an experienced mediator, and we have been very concerned about this government failure all along. After all, it has been seen that if we leave with the grip of not settling but, as it were, dictating, we are told in advance that you agree, but the result must be a 5% reduction in wages, of course it will not work out. It's been months, many attempts in the back. Now I hope that, seriously, the government will also see that, if we agree together, it is the right way. We have not seen any demonstrations along the way, Mr President, in vain, and the workers there have been horrified.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u16	Madam President! When Mr Hoskonen raised the point that things should be done, it is on the table that there is a proposal for a major structural reform of the previous government, which will reduce the sustainability gap. The message is that it was possible to do this by agreeing, not by dictating. While Mr Hoskonen continues to remind us of this second option of government, the so-called'requirement laws', which the Prime Minister Creep the cross into mandatory, mandatory legislation, and I am surprised. When the opposition tried all autumn to say that it would now be worthwhile to put these reductions in compulsory wages on ice and so the negotiations could proceed, well, then the government announced that it would freeze them. After that, negotiations began to proceed. Now Hoskonen here is still calling for these mandatory laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u17	Madam President! I am now drawing Mr Lindtman's memory that he, as a young man, is not lost in the way of forgetfulness — it is a dangerous phenomenon if a very young age is forgetful. In fact, Prime Minister Sipilä has said that this legislative package to improve competitiveness is now on ice for so long, until that negotiations become a good result. I'm sure Congressman Lindtman will remember this. If you don't remember, then, my friend, I will sharpen your memory in this matter. That is what the Prime Minister has said, and that is his position, and that is the position of the government. We're waiting for the results. That's why I'd like this conversation to... We have all gone down in Finland in recent years, and I was saddened when the ski jump in the Salpausselä Games went so badly that there were no Finns among the top 40.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u18	Let me remind you that, in this Chamber, we will then name other Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u19	Madam President! I agree with Mr Hoskonen on this issue of jumping downhill. But to get back to the matter itself, it became even more confusing that what was the message the government wanted to give when it was loudly announced that now the government is putting these laws on ice. This was precisely the message we were trying to say all autumn that it would be worth focusing more on reconciliation rather than dictation and forced intimidation. Surely we all hope that the agreement will come about. But I think that the fact that the Confederation of Finnish Industries returned to these negotiating tables after an assessment was made that these coercive laws do not have the chance to succeed reflects precisely the message we have been trying to make out of this opposition all autumn: these coercive laws are more an obstacle to this agreement than an aider. Mr President! Negotiations were closed in August
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u20	Mr President! From there it came — that what the EK did, so you there in the opposition. Are you really counting the EK on the opposition? I feel a little like it. Firstly, the government has already stated on several occasions that there are no more mandatory laws, but that it is now precisely the social partners that need to be brought to the same table and that they need to be able to negotiate together. I have such an idea now of this negotiating situation — correct, of course, if I am completely wrong — that there is an employee there, but above all the EK side has been opposed to these. Nothing seems to move forward, nothing seems to move forward. I agree exactly with some of the others here that a tripartite is a good thing, and it is good to stick to and stay in the trio on these matters, because it seems that otherwise things are not going forward in this country. That's just the way it is. But on this actual matter, which is now under discussion, then in my actual speech I will say more.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u21	Madam President! I was very pleased with this speech by Mr Tolppanen. I think he said — and he can fix it if I heard it wrong — that there are no forced laws anymore. I saw, therefore, the second largest party in the government, when it was only here that the Prime Minister's party spokesmen still waved at this threat of forced law and reminded them that they have now only been temporarily frozen if there is no agreement. Now it would be good to have a clear line of government parties where we are going. What's the government's policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u22	Mr President! The situation is clearly that we have the contracting parties who are currently sitting at the table and seeking a common solution. Personally, I believe that we will continue to hope that the culture of agreement will continue and that it will be possible, with the involvement of employers, employees and entrepreneurs, to make these joint decisions as well. The problem was that we began to have a situation, that there are exceptional times in Finland — as we see, we have a record number of long-term unemployed — and that is where we really need to take a shaking action and also take leadership. Leadership is a matter for the Finnish Parliament, and that is how the Finnish Parliament has acted in this situation, which is very special.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u23	Madam President! I, too, was pleased to note that Mr Tolppanen said here that the tripartite is good and, in agreement, we must go forward from now on. You also said that these compulsory laws no longer exist and, of course, it is a very important statement, a very important statement. I now hope that, with this, the government has indeed buried deep in it. And these coercive laws, too, to the Atlantic. After all, this has been a mistake from the outset, for example, the Economic Assessment Council took the view that these effects on employment in terms of compulsory laws have been fully assessed on the upper deck. They can be zero or even negative, cost a lot. In that way, this has been such a sad play on the whole law of coercion, that I certainly hope that this speech by Mr Tolppane really means that there will no longer be and no longer be forced laws, because, I repeat, by agreeing, not by dictating.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u24	Madam President! It is good to hear that we all agree now in this Chamber that a social pact must be reached. That is why it is extremely important that the negotiating parties are now actually there at the same and joint table to agree on one of these matters. It is part of Finnish culture and it is the way in which it is important to move forward. But I would like to stress here that, if something bad should happen now, it is surprising that no agreement can be reached, I am quite sure that the government will assume its responsibilities in this difficult situation and will then take the necessary decisions to improve our competitiveness. At the end of the day, however, as a question, when this word of coercive law is circulating here all the time, I have been amazed at what kind of legislation we have other than coercive laws. Less often do we have any voluntary laws here. Could we not think of another rhetorical term here, because this is very strange?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u26	Let us now proceed with the list of speakers. The first is Mr Tolppanen and then Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u27	Madam President! It's the coercive matter first. I think it would be a good thing if we now completely forgot about such a saying as a coercive law, because at the moment that is absolutely not the case. At the moment we are negotiating, and the very good thing and the happy thing about this is that the EK has now realised the fact that there are 2.5 million employees in Finland. You can't just wave 2.5 million from place to place. Fortunately, EK agreed and came back to the table, after which there is an opportunity to get an agreement and agree on matters together. As far as 5 % is concerned, it is already considered that this may be difficult to achieve. If it's 4%, it's good. 5% is the target. As you know very well, things do not need to be distorted either. These things need to be taken forward. We have to take them forward together. But both the trade union movement, the employees' organisations and employers' organisations have a very great responsibility in this regard. They have a responsibility to 2.5 million employees and how people live in this country. The government has given a certain kind of guidance as to the direction in which this country must be taken, and this country must be taken away from where we have been. Now, once and for all, the direction that we are going to have 120,000 new unemployed in ten years is what we need to be able to break down in one way or another in this country, and the direction that we are going to have more than one million poor people must be cut off. We must provide people with the means to live and live on. If we are talking about what is now on the agenda according to the order of day, then I think that, if it brings officials to the same level as other workers, it is not the case at this point where the tripartite is needed, because this is a correction of the law to reflect the general practice. A procedure of this kind in this case means putting a few curves straight and not going through a terribly complex negotiation process, which is likely to last a year or a year and a half at this negotiating table. This gives officials the same opportunity, which is also available to non-officials, who are employed people, and I think that is a good thing. The fact that we are trying to increase working time from the top is a good thing for the person who is in good condition and who is able to work. But the main responsibility of this hall lies in the fact that the lower limits of retirement age do not start to wag up, because people who have done that long day work have been working hard, and have been doing physical work — such as smoke divers — to find humanity to retire at the right time, at a time when they can still enjoy the fruits of the work that they have been doing for years. That is the responsibility we must bear. But now that we can close this sustainability gap, we need everyone. We need to work together. In my opinion, there are a lot of people who have been sitting on the negotiating tables for employees' organisations and, in particular, for the SAK. You have a lot of responsibility right now. You have the know-how about the negotiating tactics, the negotiating methods for reaching agreement with the EK. The EK must not be the one who dictates how a social contract is concluded, but the dictater must be the people affected by the social contract and the people who must be listened to. Then we will find a solution that will satisfy everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u28	Madam President! As has been said, this report by the Administrative Committee is a good one. This is a rather clear law, and I would like to remind you that this is now one small part or fruit of the large grapevine tree that was built during the last period, specifically by agreeing — quite differently from the way in which labour market matters are being taken forward during this term of government. That way, it's a good show. There are two other things I will pay attention to. Firstly, the point that Mr Tolppanen has just raised in his speech: He is from the government party, and he said that, for example, 4% of these negotiations are acceptable. That's news.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u33	No, he won't. — Representative Juhantalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u34	Madam President! In fact, I asked for the floor when I was enthusiastic about the excellent speech by Mrs Lauslahti about the ability and fitness of older people to work together with the enthusiasm of man’s youth. On the whole, this Aura rehabilitation activity was severely undermined in the budget, but luckily it was lengthened and softened in some way. It has caused considerable concern for the elderly and, in particular, the disabled population, how this can be continued, and has caused financial damage to rehabilitation facilities. As a whole, however, I believe that Mr Lauslahti has also raised the question of the rehabilitation of older people, the well-being of older people and their participation in society in such a way that it is combined with the enthusiasm of youth, that I personally hope that that enthusiasm for youth will only partially remain within the older population.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u35	Madam President! This would not be the case without a trilogue, would it? This is a good reminder of how things are used to being handled. Mr Tolppanen's speech was also refreshing today, because it was quite similar to the former movement of Finns in the opposition and wished for these changes, and here were the echoes and haikus, and it would have been great if the whole government had been here to hear it. I would have been very happy about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u36	Mr President! It seems that we all agree that there is a need for a social pact, but when you follow this debate week after week and day after day, you get the feeling that we understand why we need it and what it should be like, what percentages are at stake and for whom it is done. I drew attention to the fact that Mr Tolppanen said that the EK should not dictate the terms of the agreement. I agree with that, the EK alone cannot dictate these conditions, but it is not the case either that only the other party should dictate the conditions? Mr Tolppanen also said that only those people who are affected are dictated by this social agreement, so it is the entrepreneurs who are affected in order to make them more competitive. I suppose they too have the right to participate in this debate. I would like to ask the representatives of the government parties: are Finnish Entrepreneurs represented in these discussions and negotiations at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u37	Madam President! I think that there is not one person in this Chamber who can tell Mr Lindtman the right answer: how many per cent should be changed because they are foreign customers who may buy Finnish export products or fail to buy. But it is a well-established belief that we have fallen short of many trades between 15 and 18 % of the cost level, which is realised in the Finnish system as a first step lay-off, then as redundancies and then as a very high probability of permanent unemployment. In my opinion, the system which is a triangular, should on this sort of thing add quadruple, where also the final customers would be present. The situation in the domestic market industry and in service production is different. There is also enough customer representation here, but that does not change this situation in Finland much. In my view, entrepreneurs have been consulted, which, in my opinion, makes sense, because at some point only one out of 20 entrepreneurs who are starting at the moment are going to employ an outside workforce, mainly because the Ay movement has made recruiting a workforce so complex and risky that their risk bearing capacity is not enough to recruit even the first employee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u38	Mr President! Of course, it is true that we do not have any entrepreneurs unless we have employees. That's the fact. There's a hand i hand, there's a hand in hand. One needs another. If there is no entrepreneur, there are no jobs, and if there are no employees, there are no companies. This is how it goes, and we need to agree on it. That is simply the way it is. But what I reacted to was when Mr Lindtman said that, for example, Sunday compensation is double but can be paid triple if the collective agreement so stands. Has the law changed in this regard? I understand that the employer has the opportunity to pay five times as much if he wants to pay. We must remember that this collective agreement, which is made, is always the minimum. It's just a minimum to the right as well as to the left. It's good to remember that. It is there so that those who do that work can also live to do that work. But I will give you an example where I really ask everyone to help me in this Chamber. I will tell you how we are going to put a lot of pressure on ourselves to try and get jobs and get exports. We have a very large industry, fur farming, the third most profitable now in the whole country, and it employs 20,000 people. Now our legislation is that when furs are exported outside the European territory, even if they are exported to China, they are exempt from VAT, but if these Finnish furs are modified in Finland, then we have a tax collector who slaps 24% of the VAT on it, which means we will lose 24% of the competitiveness at that time. Denmark does not do this, it is the biggest exporter of all. Sweden doesn't. It's a competitor. No other European country is doing it, we are just doing it. Here is the fun that this VAT will not stay in Finland, because these buyers will register in Finland and receive this as VAT refund in a year and a half. Well, guess what? Do they prefer to buy from the Danes or from us?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u39	Mr President! In short, perhaps to this end, it is exactly as Mr Tolppanen said, that the employer can always pay four times as much for Sunday work, and that is precisely the idea of both labour law and collective agreements. And when asked where the word forced law comes from, it really does come from the fact that, according to its draft opinion, the collective agreement could not be more agreeable than the law, and that is not the case today, for example, with regard to Sunday compensation or, for example, with regard to contract of office. In other words, at the moment, if the collective agreement, for example, agrees on a four-fold compensation, but if these coercive laws were to come to Parliament, then, during the period of validity, for example, holiday money could not be agreed otherwise in the collective agreement, even if employers wanted to. This is the difference, isn't it, Congressman Kärnä? Mr President! Finally, Mr Lehde. In fact, he just said what I was trying to ask: who can say exactly what the right number is? I agree with you on this point. None of us really know exactly what the right number is, and that is why I am asking the question: was the negotiations in August worth cutting off to this 5%?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u40	Mr President! I do not remember how long Lindtman has been an employer, but a slight improvement in skills could be that in the collective agreement, after the shift list has been drawn up for restaurant or similar work at the turn of the week, if the party falls ill and needs to get another one, it will be six times the salary compared to the normal working hours. It is a bit of a ride, and it does make eating in Helsinki on Sunday an art form, because there is not really an employer whose margins can withstand such a procedure. In the trade sector, too, it seems that rather large private shops do not have staff working this weekend, but the owners do, because these collective agreements have been made so rigid that they do not comply with this, so that the theoretical wage increase this weekend will not be realised and the entrepreneur will do the hours.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u41	Mr President! I just want to correct the figures that Mr Tolppa has just presented, which relate to this employment impact of fur farming. This, of course, does not have to do with this legislative proposal under discussion, but it does not leave the Minutes incorrect. In other words, according to the Finnish Federation of Turkish Breeders, there are about 4350 direct jobs in 2014, and there is also a study that only 2000 of them. Of course there will be indirect jobs, but in some of these jobs, if you look at transport companies, there will probably be more to transport than just fur.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u42	Mr President! According to Finnish fur producers, the sector employs directly 5,000 people per year and indirectly approximately 20,000. Already in 2013, it was calculated that the sector employs 17,000 people, so that now there are different figures, but these are the figures of fur producers for today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u44	As far as fur is concerned, we were a long way from this original subject, but is Mr Mikkonen still there? — No, it's not.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u45	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 1/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u46	Madam President! Here, for a very short hymn beautiful, as they say. The committee, too, has said one paragraph about this and has stated that this is harmonising Nordic legislation. And this proposal in itself is not in any way difficult but perfectly acceptable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u47	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 1/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u48	Mr President! The Government proposal now under discussion proposes to introduce a law on extra artist pensions. These artist pensions have been provided for by a Government decision of 1974, and now, according to the Constitution, the grounds for individual rights and obligations must be laid down by law. This government proposal does not change the current content of the artist pension scheme, but what changes here is that additional artist pensions will no longer be granted by the Ministry of Education, but the Ministry of Education has transferred this task to the Arts Promotion Centre. This presentation has no impact on the number of artist pensions. At the moment, artist pensions are paid to a total of approximately 1,000 people. In recent years, 51 new full pensions have been distributed. This increase in the number of artists, in turn, has led to a tenfold increase in the number of candidates for discretionary pensions compared to the pensions granted. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health therefore notes, like the Committee on Education, that the increase in the number of candidates increases the need to revise the number of pensions to be granted. The Committee also notes that discretionary pensions are of great importance, particularly for the distinguished artists whose income is made up of occasional income. For them, statutory pension provision based on work or entrepreneurial income remains very low. And, as the Committee on Education has pointed out, further attention must continue to be paid to the development of the potential of artists and other self-employed livelihoods and to the construction of a social and pension security system, so that it is possible to accumulate your own pension without any incentive traps. The committee considers it important for the objective of extending working lives that a pension under the age of 60 cannot be granted without special reason. According to the explanatory memorandum, such a specific reason could be considered, for example, permanent incapacity for work due to health. Invalidity would be assessed on the basis of a medical certificate. The Committee would point out that the assessment of permanent incapacity for work is: However, it is a demanding task for the Arts Promotion Centre, especially if the disability of the applicant has not been assessed in the rest of the pension scheme. In other words, this is a question of this kind that I am sure will be worth paying attention to in the future. Mr President! The report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is unanimous and the committee supports the adoption by Parliament of the draft law contained in the government proposal without amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u49	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! The chairman of the committee presented the committee's report and went over these issues quite extensively. It is therefore a practice that is over 40 years old and is now being reformed, and in the future decisions on artist pensions would no longer be made by the Ministry of Education and Culture, but by the Arts Promotion Centre, which was set up in 2013 as an expert agency under the Ministry of Education and Culture, and this is certainly a well-founded change and, in a certain way, also follows the way in which supplementary athletes' pensions are granted. These pensions remain discretionary, as the chairman of the committee pointed out above, and the crucial thing is how much money is available for this. In other words, when the number of artist pensions is currently around a thousand, it will be determined in the future by how much money we can spend on this important work. And as we know quite widely in this Chamber where the funding of culture comes from, we must ensure that in the future we will continue to develop in a positive way, including during the new company. The share of art and culture in the state budget is just over EUR 450 to EUR 460 million, and as much as half of this comes from betting profits, and the lion's share is actually used specifically to promote art, which means that 25% of them are allocated to sport and sports, 9% to youth work, 17.5% to science and 38.5% to art, and this is also part of the guarantee that these artist pensions will continue to be paid. What it means in terms of money, what is going to happen to these beneficiaries — so roughly, it could be said that, despite the recession and the difficult economic period, our profit from the lottery has increased, and this has, of course, been a positive thing, especially from the point of view of these beneficiaries. Roughly, art receives less than 0.5 billion, 450 million and 0.5 billion, exercise less than 200 million, science 380 million and youth work 74 million, and then there is a small undivided share. Now that the current government has decided with a broad sense of unity that our monopoly system will be strengthened by combining these three gambling companies into one — informally speaking about Oy Suomi Games Ab — it is important that we keep those gaming systems up-to-date and that our gambling will be directed specifically to these responsible sites and places where there is also awareness of the risks of gambling and the problem of gambling, as is the case with Veikkaus and the Slot Machine Association — and I believe that, to some extent, Fintoton will also exist. With legal, good games on offer in the future, I am convinced that the money for betting or gambling that they will be in the future will develop in a positive way and not in a way that would increase the problem gambling rate, and that is one good way to be able to increase these artist pensions from about a thousand forwards today. We have a growing number of artists who are waiting for this, and of course one important thing is that not all art will ever be — and it should not be — to provide for it in the business sense, and then there must be such systems in the future, so that it will be guaranteed even after its career as an artist.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u50	Mr President! This government proposal concerns additional artist pensions. The motion proposes that decision-making on additional artist pensions be transferred from the Ministry of Education and Culture to the Arts Promotion Centre. In this context, however, it is also good to discuss the making of art and the livelihood of artists. It is often difficult to get along with art, especially with the Finnish home market. Therefore, aids and grants such as artistic pensions are very necessary. Veikkaus and its support for artists have been a strong factor in Finnish art over the years. Art has been supported by Veikkaus' funds since 1953, and cultural activities have been the biggest beneficiary of Veikkaus since the 1990s. This is a great thank you to Mr Veikkaus and, above all, to the citizens who are betting. Although difficult times, science, art and exercise get a relatively good pot root Thanks to the bet, to this day. Artistic and cultural activities are often criticised for living too much on scholarships. However, Finnish cultural life would be much poorer if there were no state grants. National art would quickly be in trouble, and it is not worth envying those who receive the grant. They're not that big, and you only get a part of them. The so-called creative sectors are the fastest growing sectors in the world. In Europe, they employ at least 7 million people. Many people are surprised at the proportion of our economy in the creative sectors, including here in Finland, about 4 per cent at the moment. More generally, it should be understood that with many sectors currently without growth potential, the creative sectors are a big opportunity. The financing of artistic and cultural activities also supports the development of creative industries and will have a great economic significance, not to mention this spiritual aspect, in addition to their own intrinsic value. It is also important that in the future, Veikkaus, the Slot Machine Association and Toto should continue to keep this monopoly, because it is very important at national level. The increase in the number of artists has meant that the number of applicants for artist pensions has increased all the time. Artists' pensions per 500 applicants per year are awarded exactly 51. That is not very much, and in the future it would be good to increase the number of recipients of artist pensions. At present, an artist’s pension is granted to just over 1000 people. In the future, an important criterion for receiving an additional pension must be a worthy career, and the artist's wealth must also be taken into account. The Arts Commission should also handle applications in a fair manner, taking these criteria into account. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u51	Madam President! The government proposal proposes to introduce a law on supplementary artistic pensions. According to Article 80(1) of the Constitution, the law must lay down the basis for individual rights and obligations. The current legal base based on Government decisions has therefore not been sufficient in this area. Decision-making on these pensions is also proposed to be transferred from the Ministry of Education and Culture to the Arts Promotion Centre. As I have already mentioned, the proposal now brings the granting of additional artist pensions at the level of the law, based on the decision of the Government and its application practice. In the same way, the Act that entered into force in 2015 has been adopted for supplementary athletes' pensions. I think the arguments are good here too, and the proposal must be supported. The pension remains a discretionary benefit granted in recognition of a successful artistic career. An artist’s pension is granted as a recognition of merit as a performing and creative artist. The categories include music, stage art, literature and visual arts. The full pension is approximately EUR 1300 per month and half of it is part pension. When granting a pension, account shall also be taken of the property status of the applicant and his or her means of subsistence. It must be difficult to decide who will eventually receive the pension. According to my information, the pension has been earned by singers Tapani People, Maria Babitz and Pave Maijanen, but not, for example, Reijo Taipale or Tapio Rautavaara, who died in 1979. I hope I'm wrong about Taipale and Rautavaara. As the committee has pointed out, discretionary pensions are of great importance, especially for those who have earned their income from occasional incomes. "Oh, how little of a piece of egg sandwich in my world,"
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u52	Mr President! We should talk about the livelihoods of the artists. This additional artist pension scheme can only serve as a supplementary pension scheme, but does not provide a comprehensive pension security solution for a wide range of professionals with very varied income formation and pension income solutions. In the future, attention must be paid to the livelihoods and development of artists and other self-employed workers and to the establishment of a social and pension security system, so that it is possible to raise your own pension without a trap of incentives, as Mr Haatainen, the chairman of the committee, has already said. For artists without permanent earnings, statutory pension provision is often very low, and for these applicants the importance of pensions in securing their own economy is very important. This applies in particular to artists, writers and other artists working without employment in different visual fields. The expert consultation in the Committee on Education also highlighted the need to change the current practice of reconciling artistic pension and guarantee pension so that in future, artist pension would no longer reduce the guarantee pension. It should be remembered that, for example, the average annual income of a visual artist is only about EUR 20000 per year and that the share of low incomes is 33 per cent, or very high. However, living, evolving and versatile art requires the preservation of artists' livelihoods. Mr President! Art is important for Finland, Finnish identity and success in international competitions. It is not enough to believe in technology alone. We need creative people to develop and succeed in the world, and artists need adequate support structures to succeed in their artistic work and to be able to do well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u53	Madam President! Art and objective communication are vital to society. Both provide not only information but also soul food to individuals. Both also serve as watchdogs of power and, in particular, art, sometimes as a bit sarcastic, partly oscivious, at least as a highlighter. Art also has to be able to live, that's the important thing about it. You have to be able to take art where it doesn't exist. For example, theatre, ballet, art, music, whatever you need to be able to spread all over the kingdom. It takes our help and it takes money, but it is the kind that empowers people, when people hear things and can enjoy art everywhere. I do not think it is so important who pays or grants an additional artist's pension, as long as someone admits and someone pays, that is the important thing. If this performance helps artists to receive an additional pension, and if it helps more people to receive an additional pension in order to be able to live at retirement age, the performance is most welcome. However, I am all in favour of this proposal because it is straightforward and takes them forward. What is important and what must certainly also be watched in the future is that there will be no extra artistic pension, as was the case with an extra journalist’s pension. This form of pension paid since 1937 was removed from the state budget by Minister Arhinmäki in 2014. It's a very bad thing. Currently, freelance suppliers, part-time and temporary suppliers often fall into the category of entrepreneurs with annual income of EUR 20000 or EUR 15000. It will be extremely dangerous if this same thing also spreads to artists. If artists are also made entrepreneurs, then their position in this society will be weakened. Then, too, the amount of pension that one should receive will be reduced. This is something that is very much to be welcomed. In my opinion, society should make sure that the people are also fed souls. It is not only powerful for artists but also for those who enjoy the arts — at least for me. At least I miss art. I miss the theater, I miss the opera, I miss the art and I even miss the music. Although I'm not terribly musical, I'm happy to listen to that too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u54	Madam President! I personally see that it is a good change to transfer decision-making from artist pensions to the Arts Promotion Centre. I believe that it is the right body to carry out a high-quality assessment of who and who have earned an artist's pension on the basis of their merits. It also prevents what this debate here is slipping into: which one of us appreciates what art is most important, which we find most relevant. And that's why the Arts Promotion Center is just the place. The big problem for artists and culturalists is that there is no pension. I agree with what has been said here that it would be great for us to have more artist pensions to be distributed. I am absolutely in favour of this. But I don't think that's the way we're going to solve this whole problem. We therefore need to create a system that supports these people in so-called atypical jobs. The artist’s pension intake consists of short grants, entrepreneurial incomes, while the work has been done without any income. So, in my opinion, the solution to this whole job is from the development of our social security and pension system, the same for journalists. So the system would have to be one that recognizes these atypical forms of income formation and removes the incentive traps that are currently in existence. And this applies to all those who employ themselves more widely. I personally see that basic income could be one way of creating a system of encouragement and security that I described above, and I look forward to future government policies on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u55	Madam President! This is an excellent proposal, and the committee has very much summed up these key points. Many fields of art also create an international picture of Finland in a way that business or political achievements do not reach. But what will be left for them in the end when old age is at the door? Regrettably, I have often had to see our top artists in the bread line, when it is no longer enough to earn a living at that moment. I think it is very important, as has been mentioned here in the report, that this 51, the number of artist pensions, is too small and must be revised in the future in such a way that there is more to be allocated. There was a mention here of our top athletes. It is really sad to see that many people who have given their lives to sport and brightened up the image of Finland will eventually end up on a minimum pension. This situation is not good either, even though attempts have been made to improve it. I fully agree with Mr Modig that some kind of overall review should be carried out here — if you can now call the artist freelancer when it comes from the depths of the soul — and this whole entity should be reformed. That would be important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u56	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 1/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 19 February 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u57	Madam President! On Friday, when we started this first reading of this increase in credit for export and under-credit, there was a unanimous support from both sides of the Chamber that it is now important to try to get our export industry over this economic downturn by public means as well. There are therefore three laws on the subject, and the aim is to increase the maximum amount of funding for exports to EUR 13 billion, above all in order to safeguard the competitive conditions of our export companies. At the same time, Finnvera's fundraising, the central government guarantee facility will be increased from EUR 9 billion to EUR 15 billion, and the export guarantee law, the granting authority, will be increased from EUR 17 billion to EUR 19 billion. These are quite appropriate, especially in view of the fact that Finland's exports have not increased in the last few years. Last year it turned positive at last 0.9 per cent. There are small emerging opportunities for growth, so I think it is very important that this has now been brought to the attention of Parliament — yet, given that 40% of our gross domestic product comes from exports. It is also important in that it is also aligned with the government's key projects. The aim was to bring the elements of export financing to the level of the competitor countries and to diversify the instrument palette and, above all, to do this by supporting the conditions of business and entrepreneurship. At the same time, we must remember, when this is praised by the various parties, that it is likely that now that the credit stock is raised, then our responsibilities will also rise, and we have been doing quite well up until now, but we must also be prepared for some kind of loss. I hope that unity will also be the case then. The problem in Finland is still that our industry is very narrow. We haven't had enough cleantech exports, for example. We should diversify our export industry, and one big thing is that banks have not been interested in financing these export projects, so this is important in that respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u58	Mr President! A very important issue is at hand here. As stated in this government proposal, in practice, these export credit guarantees or direct export credits are applied for in every one of the millions of export trades today, which are actually being passed on to Finnvera’s organisations. It is somewhat worrying that we have five Members of Parliament here, plus the President-in-Office, when this matter is being discussed. Of course, I understand that this has already been the subject of a previous debate, and the committee will of course make these wordings in this report. But an absolutely essential question, when we all want and seek to achieve this export-driven growth and the renewal of Finland, is the provision of funding, especially for smaller and medium-sized enterprises, but also for these major players in the shipbuilding industry, for example, is actually the most important competition issue in most stores, the fact that I could buy your fine cap, but I do not have the money to finance it. A few comments on this matter. It is absolutely justified by this government's proposal to increase credit powers. Currently, the share of export credits in GDP is in fact one and a half times higher in Sweden than in Finland. There has clearly been more of this direct export credit state activity in the past, but in practice now with this new approach we are getting close and in the same way with Sweden, so that in this case you can no longer complain that Finnvera or the state in Finland is somehow cheap to support export credit in general. The problem may be that it is mainly interest subsidy in Finland, the majority of fixed interest rates of 1 per cent. On the other hand, the credit risk of the counterparty is very stingy. The other half is that... [President MariaLohela : Representative, should be continued. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u61	Madam President! One of the cornerstones of our external trade, and indeed the obstacles, has been this risk finance, and here we are taking an important step forward, as Mr Mykkänen said. There is one thing that it is good to underline here, and that is risk management. Now that the risk taken by the Finnish State in favour of our trade increases by 15 billion, this risk management also needs to be significantly enhanced. And then, as mentioned in this report, this applies to a rather limited number of industries, so this area, which can apply for this risk finance or support, should be significantly expanded, and action should be taken immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u62	Mr President! I regret that it might have been easier to come straight out of the toilet to keep this whole analysis at once, but I will go on to the end of the part where the main challenge, perhaps in Finland, is that our banks are in practice far too reluctant to participate even in the required 5-10 %, which even in these export credit-shaped Finnvera activities is required of the commercial bank, because, in the context of the current regulation, in part following the financial crisis, especially these small cases of export credits — say less than 5 million — are not very interesting or profitable for the bank. In this respect, when, as I said earlier, this matter is vital to us, I would urge the government, as we are already doing in the course of this year, to undertake a broader study of the future of the export credit system as a whole, to which the committee refers in its report, and to see the need and the possibility of making all the monetary credits granted through Finnvera's organisations and not even requiring the 5-10 % share in certain small loan labels, as it is said, if there is no other way of achieving a level playing field for German competitors, for example, which are clearly more diverse and more accessible to these SMEs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u63	Madam President! I would like to add to Mr Mykkänen's idea of this risk bearing capacity of banks that it is precisely this cooperation between the various export guarantee schemes and banks that will be absolutely essential in the future. The current banking sector in Finland is very foreign-oriented, and it seems that in a way here in Finland, as a small banking market, only the so-called good customer base, reliable, financially viable and so on is of interest, and this risk side is not even really wanted to be invested in. It is now shown here how banks operate in Finland. I believe that this cooperation between banks and the Finnish State should now be stepped up, the debate on how this risk bearing capacity could be more evenly distributed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u64	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 1/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u65	Madam President! This proposal concerns the implementation of the Nagoya Protocol, and the purpose of this Protocol is to establish a coherent international regulatory basis for access to traditional knowledge of genetic resources and related indigenous peoples and for sharing the benefits of their use. These protocol provisions do not apply to human genetic resources. Article 8 of this bill includes a provision on the prohibition of the weakening of the rights of the Sámi, and the committee, too, in this report, states that the purpose of the non-degradation provision is to safeguard the rights of the Sámi people to use their traditional knowledge in a situation where traditional information is used or sought by someone other than the Sámi. The proposal improves the rights of the Sámi as an indigenous people, and now that many speeches have been made in this Chamber, for example, in connection with the preparation of the Metsähallitus Act, that the government has completely forgotten the rights of indigenous peoples, I am surprised to see where the thanks are now being given to the fact that such an important bill is now being taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-24-ps-13.u66	Mr President! I am pleased to join Mr Kärnä in this speech. Indeed, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, this matter was interpreted quite unanimously. It may also be worth pointing out here that this agreement in itself regulates the benefits and commodities related to the availability and use of genetic resources, not, for example, how, in the case of textile products or other traditional products such as souvenir sales, the rules of the game go. But as far as genetic resources are concerned, this also clarifies the situation in Finland and is a step in the right direction in that I personally believe that we in Finland and in other countries – mainly in Finland – have the status and identity of indigenous peoples – well enough to strengthen it while it is being done in a balanced way and so that it does not provoke conflicts in indigenous areas, which can then easily turn against them in a worse situation. In connection with the discussion of the Metsähallitus Act, all these aspects have been and are strongly present when we consider how best to decide on the use of forest resources, especially in Northern Finland, so that everyone's interests can be satisfactorily taken into account. I believe there is a compromise for that too. We often bark here at international agreements that undermine Finland's opportunities, but I believe that this proposal is a small step but in the right direction and also an indication that the international community can often achieve positive things for Finland.
