ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 June 2016. In the debate, Mr Gustafsson, supported by Mrs Eeva-Johanna Eloranna, has submitted a proposal for a statement, which has been distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u2	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u3	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 7 June 2016. In the debate, Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Ilmari Nurminen, has made two statements, which have been distributed to the representatives in a multifaceted manner.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u4	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u5	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u7	It is the idea, ladies and gentlemen, that we will have this moment's debate in the order of the speeches that have been requested, and at some point the Ombudsman will come up with questions and comments, then respond to the speeches made by the representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u8	Mr President! Good Ombudsman and good colleagues! Thank you for a good and thorough presentation and also for an excellent book that gives a good picture of what has happened in the year that ended. Basic and human rights: Weaknesses and improvements are highlighted in a good way by the lack of learning environments in basic education on page 100. I very much welcome the fact that school bullying is also raised here and it is stated that there is insufficient interference in school bullying and that schools do not have sufficient means to detect and address school bullying. This is a message that must be taken seriously at all levels, both here in Parliament, in the Ministry, in the National Board of Education and, above all, in all municipalities and in all schools. The problem of indoor air and local differences, which are huge, are also constantly being raised in schools. The availability of student care, rehabilitation and other support for schooling and learning, among other things, depends on the child’s place of residence and the household situation of the municipality of residence. This is something that must be taken seriously and noted. The same paragraph also highlights the long processing times of judicial proceedings and shortcomings in the structural independence of courts. That is also what we have often discussed in Parliament. Delays in proceedings have been a problem for a long time, according to this report. This has been reflected both in national law enforcement and in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Despite some legislative reforms that have improved the situation, trials can still take an unreasonable amount of time. I myself would like to highlight in particular the role of the victim in these trial processes, but also particularly the victims of rapes and various sexual crimes, both adults and, above all, children. In Finland, there would be a lot to improve in those trial processes, that they would be as discreet as possible for these victims and that, several times after long waiting periods, they would not be torn open again, but could make the trial processes more humane from the point of view of the victims. One thing that has often been said here — fortunately, it is no longer spoken of — is the clay that has been spoken of several times in this Chamber. Mr Sari Sarkomaa raised the matter at the time and was then the subject of a complaint to the Ombudsman. Deputy Ombudsman Jussi Pa drinker was in line with his own decision with Mr Sarkomaa. According to him, the Suvivirre lyrics are not emphatic religious, for God is mentioned only once, and the Assistant Ombudsman stated that the summer is part of the Finnish spring tradition and the Spring Festival is not a religious celebration in itself. I enjoyed myself very much when I was able to attend a spring party for both small schoolchildren and a frat party, and again after a break for a few years, the summer of summer was echoed and fresh, and the children were able to spend a beautiful summer after this traditional song.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u11	Mr President! I will continue with the question raised by Mr Heinonen as to whether everything should be recorded in the law. On the other hand, I'm asking if there's anything that should be recorded in the law that we can't find yet. I would like to draw particular attention to the list of shortcomings in the report before us and the question on the basic needs of the paperless on page 99, particularly in social and health services. The report notes that there are currently significant shortcomings and ambiguities in Finland. Weaknesses and ambiguities. A paperless person in this context may mean a person who does not have a residence permit in Finland. Such a person is not always in the country without authorisation in the sense that he may be entitled, for example, to wait for his residence permit in Finland. This is the case, for example, if you have married a Finnish person and wait for your residence permit due to marriage, or if you are a person who cannot be returned to your country of origin, even if you are not considered entitled to any category of residence permit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u14	Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen will be followed by a small debate so that the Ombudsman will first make his own comments on the issues raised in the debate and then continue with a few comments.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u15	Mr President! The Parliamentary Ombudsman's report for 2015 is interesting to read and I intend to get to grips with it, but in this speech I will address only one topical issue which is also missing from the Ombudsman's report, namely mistreatment of the elderly and disabled people. Unfortunately, this phenomenon is a reality in today's care and care work. According to a report by Valvira last week, 93% of employees working in 24-hour care communities had found abuse on the part of residents in their working community. Everything must be done to eradicate this phenomenon. In order to get the right measures, we need to find the reasons for this phenomenon. Mistreatment is an activity that causes physical, mental or social suffering or ill feeling to another person. For example, mistreatment includes non-protection of the patient, over-medication, inappropriate and degrading behaviour and speech. According to Valvira’s study, bossy, punishment and reprehensibility are also common. Non-treatment, such as non-use of toilets, is also a common form of abuse. Violation and annulment of the right to self-determination are also forms of abuse that arise in this Ombudsman's report. Failure to allow outdoor activities is also part of this same phenomenon. Maltreatment is more common in the care of vulnerable patients such as memory-disadvantaged, mental-health patients and mentally disabled persons. I myself am the Chairman of the Memory Union, and that is why I am now thinking about it from the perspective of this growing group of people. Why this abuse? The employees involved in the Valvira survey stressed that urgency and resource shortages increase the risk of abuse. Tired workers are too tired to behave properly. Of course, fatigue may be due to a number of reasons, but it can be said with certainty that too few staff are exposed to fatigue. For many nursing workers, the conflict between professional identity and reality causes fatigue. Most nursing workers would like to do their job well, but with existing resources this is not possible. The Government’s decision to reduce the size of personnel in community homes to 0.4 is a bad decision, as in practice it means that, for example, the care community of 15 residents has only one nurse on the morning or evening shift. This is definitely too little, especially in the treatment of people with memory disorders, since attendance is one of the most important and effective methods of treating people with memory disorders. The care of memory sufferers requires well-educated staff and special skills, as special skills are needed to meet a person with a memory disorder. A well-educated worker is able to handle challenging situations without any sedative or other abuse. It is therefore important to ensure, through initial and continuing training, adequate skills and skills for those working in nursing care with memory disorders. For example, there is generally far too little information about the use of non-pharmaceutical remedies to meet challenging behaviour in treatment communities and therefore the unnecessary use of sedatives is driven and can be included within the framework of abuse. In addition to knowledge and skills, the right attitude and motivation are needed. In addition, the climate of care communities plays an important role in the quality of care. A good atmosphere facilitates the raising of difficult issues and ethical debate. There is a need for a common set of rules in care communities, which are also monitored. The role of the immediate manager is to ensure that the care community operates in accordance with the agreed rules of the game. Disadvantage is a real problem. It cannot be closed and we have enough information to eradicate it. This is not a lack of information. The question is whether we are going to turn this information into a practice by common decision in society. This requires changes in attitudes, including resources and education. I hope that the Ombudsman will do all he can to eradicate this phenomenon, and this report provides a very good basis for continuing the debate on this important issue. Finally, Mr President, as Chairman of the Memory Union, I feel it is my duty to take a stand on one word that I noticed when I read the report. We should not be talking about dementias or dent places today. These are concepts that degrade human dignity. We are talking about different types of memory disorders, some of which can lead to dementia. A disease such as dementia does not exist, but many diseases can lead to a syndrome called dementia. However, general concepts are always a memory disorder and a person with a memory disorder. We have discussed this issue with those who have fallen ill in the Memory Union several times, and they do not want to be demented or at least demented. They're hoping to talk about memory disorders.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u16	And now, ombudsman, please. — If three minutes were enough at this stage, let us see.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u17	Mr President! Thank you for those contributions. Mr Heinonen raised a number of points about the report and, among other things, that Act on Prisons. That is how it is like Mr Heinonen says that in our fundamental rights system, all fundamental rights restrictions must be laid down by law, and this will lead to very detailed regulation, of which the prison law is a good example. On the other hand, I can say that prisons are a good example of the fact that even in such a closed facility, those who have been taken into these institutions, or prisoners, in Finland, can be in a very safe mind that they are not subjected to arbitrary action. In this achievement, I understand that this detailed prison law has its own meaning. Unsatisfactory can be said to be the clear best rule of law for the various categories of persons who have lost their freedom. In many other groups, such as the elderly, there is a partial lack of legislation. Mr Kontula rightly said that the report does not deal with what happens to the returnees. This is a good question, and we too have had a debate on this. After all, our staff is Jari Pirjola, a member of the Council of Europe's Committee against Torture, and he has raised this question, among other things, that it has such a research subject. Of course, in a foreign country, the Ombudsman cannot explain what has happened to these returned asylum seekers. The report also contains only indirect violence by the authorities and perhaps through cooperation between the authorities, but private individuals do not fall within the mandate of the Ombudsman. Representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen raised the issue of abuse of the elderly. This is an important issue, and this prevalence of abuse is startling, even according to the Valvira report. We are trying to address this and, in particular, through these missions. It is now a task which falls within the remit of the national supervisory body. There are many ways in which this task is very challenging, even when it comes to how to bring up the treatment, the events that are taking place in the care establishments there, when those people are often unable to complain or even to tell on them, but we are developing methods for this. One way is to listen to family members and perhaps to gain information through family members. There must be some way to dig up the signals that tell us that things are not all right there to get to them. Inspections and these inspection methods will be developed. The problem is, of course, that there are so many of these different places where we should carry out inspections. 152 inspections are the largest number of inspections that have been carried out, and with these resources it is more or less the level we are able to do. So there are thousands of these places where these visits should be made in this kingdom. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u18	A few debatable responses.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u19	Mr President! The Ombudsman of the European Parliament referred to this doctrine that restrictions on fundamental rights must be regulated by law, and even if he accepts this doctrine, the question of what a restriction on fundamental rights remains. Is it a fundamental right restriction when the prisoner is taken away from the instrument of crime? Is it a fundamental right restriction when Ateneum prohibits photography? Is it a fundamental right restriction when a student is caught smoking after writing about the harmful effects of smoking? All of these have been seen as fundamental rights restrictions in law enforcement. Personally, I would be very considerate. Is it a fundamental right restriction that if I go to that library in Töölö when it is reopened and I start to give political ferocious speech loudly in the reading room, the librarian will surely kindly guide me out of the library? I do not believe that this is a fundamental right restriction, but it appears to be a fundamental right restriction in line with the policies of these supervisors. But it is not laid down in the law, so, Mr Ombudsman, please do not just make a suggestion that there should be a law to remove the man who is raging from the library.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u20	Mr President! It is extremely important that this report is being discussed here, and it is good that we should be aware of these shortcomings that we still have in the implementation of fundamental rights in Finland. And I welcome — when Mrs Sakslin states in this speech that economic uncertainty undermines confidence in society’s ability to safeguard fundamental rights and maintain prosperity and security, and that this is estimated to contribute to creating a breeding ground for nationalism, xenophobia and the climate of fear — that the legal controllers will also pay attention to these attitudes that we still have in society. But, President-in-Office, I would like to point out that, when we are talking about the treatment of the elderly, for example, which Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen has already spoken about here, it is important to talk about knowledge, culture and attitudes, but it is just as important to ensure that there are enough people working in this area. And I therefore consider a very bad solution,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u21	Mr President! In law enforcement, attention has again been paid to religion and religious education in schools. The second is that different religions and philosophy can be taught together, and the second is about this hymn. Is it true that in these matters of religion there is still a need for some clarification to be given to schools when it seems that these religious issues arise each year?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u22	Mr President! I think it is a great thing that this Convention for the Disabled enters into force the day after tomorrow. I would also like, for my part, to express my delight in this. President! The Ombudsman well described this problem today, that there has been a great deal of cutting policy, which is particularly fatal when it comes to the most vulnerable population groups. As a result, for example, the disability side here in Parliament and among the SDP have raised great concern, for example, about these intentions to exclude disabled people over 75 years of age from the Disability Services Act, and so many have come to ask how this might be justified. And I would like serious greetings in this connection to be passed on to the government parties: do not come and do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u25	Mr President! I am very sorry about the reduction in the resources for care for the elderly. This issue has also been dealt with several times here, and Minister Ruhula has said that the dimension is not decisive, but that the customer's needs are crucial. Unfortunately, in many municipalities, I have heard many nurses say that no one came to ask for the needs of the customers, but that the staff is now being cut off. Knowledge, skills, knowledge and even the right attitude do not help if there are too few employees. As an expert in the treatment of people with memory disorders, I can say that if there are 15 people with memory disorders in the community and there is a single care worker with them, then this single care worker will probably have to treat or limit customers in vain, and that is indeed a subject of abuse. One nursing worker cannot treat 15 people with memory disorders with a high quality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u26	And the last response.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u27	President! This report is once again convincing to read. In particular, the reviews are in the artery of time. In the introduction, the Ombudsman explained that the time for dealing with complaints had been shortened. Good for you — the world has changed substantially with the Internet. The number of complaints has exploded. In many countries, such official documents made on the Internet are not being processed. I myself had my doubts about this in the past, but I think it is good for citizens to have legal certainty that this will happen. An example a few years ago was when a child from the Child Welfare Department had done this. This child certainly would not have been able to make this notification through the regular postal authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u28	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u29	Mr President! Like Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, I would like to draw attention to the role of people in 24-hour care and the implementation of their fundamental rights. In Finland, we have a significant number of over 50,000 people living in 24-hour care. A significant number of them have some sort of memory disorder and the strengthening of their sovereignty is our central objective, according to this report too. There has been much discussion here, among other things, about the implementation of these fundamental rights. I was looking at the study by THL that half of them have not even been able to get out of their residence for the last month, which means that there is a need to strengthen fundamental rights. There are a number of key projects currently under way in the government which focus on the well-being of older people, but I am concerned that people, especially those in 24-hour care, are threatening to be overlooked in these priorities too. A self-determination law has long been prepared, which would be of great importance to these people, particularly those who are suffering from day-to-day treatment, precisely in the proper functioning of their fundamental rights and their restrictive measures, i.e. in practice how we would support this decent treatment and self-determination in Finland. There has also been a very unfortunate mistreatment of the elderly, and I would like to raise it myself. I myself drew attention to this survey by Valvira, which showed that as many as 93 percent of this 24 - day care staff had found mistreatment of the elderly. These means of control are also under-resourced, i.e. there are few real means available to the regional government authorities, not to mention home care services, as the Ombudsman has already pointed out. I also know a number of examples in which, after the staff has raised these shortcomings — but their rights have been strengthened by legislation over the last period — they have not been considered to be very good. And when Mrs Huovinen raised these experiences and improved staff skills, it is very important to prevent this abuse. This abuse can mean harshness in treatment measures, harsh or inappropriate language, bossy, punishing, reprimanding, that is to say, very strong things are being said about people who depend entirely on the help of another person, and often their ability to act is already very weakened and they are unable to defend their own rights. However, this same study pointed out that the number of staff has a very strong impact on this mistreatment, i.e., if the unit is in a hurry, then there is clearly more abuse in this case. In my opinion, this equation is extremely poorly suited, among other things, to the government's planned staffing bills of 0.4. Of course, this Ombudsman's report also highlights the economic issues of income and social security, and in particular the current cuts in low incomes and increases in customer fees, which have also been implemented by the government here in Parliament. I personally believe that these threaten the fundamental rights of these people, also through access to these services. Mr President! I would also like to ask the Ombudsman how you can see that these legal and standard impairments, such as the fall in dimension and, above all, this policy of cutting, which largely affects certain elderly people and the same groups and more vulnerable people, affect fundamental rights. However, these results should be better when the future report is made. Is this a coherent policy in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u30	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The ethical and moral nature of our society's activities is measured in how we take care of the weakest, such as the disabled, the elderly and children. The fundamental principles of the Nordic welfare state are that we take care of everyone with solidarity. The Ombudsman's report is comprehensive and addresses a number of important issues that we Members of Parliament have also heard directly from the citizens. It is good that last year the Ombudsman's special theme has been the exercise of the rights of people with disabilities. The Parliament adopted the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities during the reign of the Demars in March 2015 and required that, before the ratification of the Convention was completed, it be ensured that the restrictions on self-determination were laid down as required by ratification. The Convention is the first legally binding international instrument on the rights of persons with disabilities. The Treaty does not establish new rights but establishes existing rights for persons with disabilities guaranteed by other international human rights treaties. The agreement underlines the right of persons with disabilities to participate in the preparation and decision-making of matters relating to themselves. Ratification of the UN CRPD is very important and expected for the realisation of the rights of people with disabilities. The Agreement will enter into force on Friday 10 June 2016 after 10 years of preparation. . Mr President! I am really concerned that according to the Ombudsman's activity report, equal opportunities for the participation of people with disabilities will not be realised. There are shortcomings in the accessibility of premises, accessibility of services, and in institutional management, self-determination limitation practices vary. Social and health services for disabled children are insufficient. Legal service plans and special care programmes are not always drawn up, or they are not drawn up properly, or they are unduly delayed. Application practices for disability services in municipalities are heterogeneous and application guidelines may limit access to statutory services. The employment of people with disabilities is not sufficiently supported. In many cases, people with mental disabilities work, for example, in operating centres, for a salary below the minimum wage. People with disabilities and their loved ones have found the application of the tendering procedure in social and health services very problematic in many areas of life, such as housing, transport services, aids, rehabilitation and language interpretation. In the light of these experiences, users have found that an open tendering procedure by a body responsible for organising services is totally inappropriate for the provision of essential services for people with disabilities. In the case of the provision of social and health services, the low price must not be a determining factor, as it is often not a viable solution to ensure quality. The EU Procurement Directive allows the procurement of social and health services, taking into account the best price-quality ratio. In the new procurement law, the mere use of the cheapest price as a selection criterion should be eliminated. People with disabilities and their loved ones have a huge number of experiences of discontent and disappointment as a result of competitive tendering. Mr President! How does the government put these perceived shortcomings in order, the realisation of the rights of people with disabilities when it requires improvements in practices there at grassroots level. Many municipalities cut money from their disability service, and the government has brought its own savings targets into preparation, which has led to a plan to exclude disabled people over 75 years of age from the disability service. In the future, they would receive their services on the basis of the Social Welfare Act and the Elderly Services Act, which means, among other things, the payment of services. This age limit has not been prepared during the last period, although Minister Ruhula has sometimes suggested so. The government’s deregulation also threatens to further reduce accessibility and accessibility. It is therefore important to separate unnecessary red tape from the important, long-standing standards that protect the possibility for special groups to live on an equal footing with others. Many government cuts hit people with disabilities. In what way does the government believe that the status of people with disabilities will be improved when the starting point is this? Mr President! This spring, the SDP has announced its own disability policy programme based on the core values of social democracy: respect for human dignity and freedom, the implementation of equality, solidarity and justice. The right to the common good belongs to everyone. We value diversity and people's diversity and we want to build Finland, where people with disabilities are an active and equal part of society, not on the margins or on the margins of society. Equal inclusion of people with disabilities in society means a good society for all. If a person does not have the freedom to define his or her own needs or to implement himself or his or her own services, he or she cannot speak of social inclusion. This needs to be changed. Often, accessibility does not require major changes: thresholds, ramps, lighting, induction loops, earrings, etc. It should also be noted that everyone benefits from an accessible environment and service. Already now and in the future, a growing number of Finns have grown older and travel with various aids and are deaf or partially sighted. There's no harm in being accessible. Mr President! Life is the best rehabilitation, and disabled people and everyone with reduced mobility must be able to travel and move. Mr President, all decision-making is based on values. We must question the measurement of all value in money. Next year will be the 100th anniversary of Finland’s independence. The theme of the year is Together. I hope that together we mean genuine equality and that the shortcomings in the Ombudsman's report will be rectified quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u31	Mr President! Every year, there will be a discussion about whether the summer can be sung. I think it is very important that we sing summer and Earth song, whether in spring or summer or autumn, because it is important that we adhere to Finnish culture and tradition and also to Finnish Christian values that carry both private people and people in difficult times. However, in actual fact, some aspects of this Ombudsman's report are brief. Indeed, there were just under 4800 complaints in 2015, and these are now usually done by e-mail, up to 65%. The main beneficiaries of these measures are the social and health care sector, the criminal sanctions sector and the police authorities. There has also been a lot of talk about the elderly, and it is good that this issue is raised. Tens of thousands of elderly customers live in institutional care and service housing units. Food, hygiene, changing diapers, rehabilitation and outdoor activities are constantly showing up. It has been said that prisoners receive as much as an hour’s walk each day, but our old people are forced to stay indoors for as many days, perhaps weeks without an opportunity to walk. These shortcomings may be due to too little staff, perhaps a person’s motivation, the working environment, and this, in turn, leads, as the book says, to the use of excessive medication. Then, the inadequacy and delay in support services for families in need of support will cause problems later. This leads to an increasing need for child welfare and is also reflected in children’s mental health problems. It would be very important to invest in this prevention, to provide that home service from the maternity clinic to the families, so as not to rush them into custody. Last year there were also children in custody outside the home, between 0 and 17 years of age, under 15,000. According to THL, the results of some municipalities are still missing. Still, school bullying has not been resolved. Schools do not have sufficient means to tackle bullying, but this should be a common worry between school and home. In the home, parents should teach how a child meets another, and in the same way, there should be an open debate at school about the need for no one to be bullied, all children should be equal. Many children suffer for years, are abandoned and isolated, and many problems also come along the way, and these may take many years, perhaps decades. But actually, I'm happy when we talk about indoor air problems. I have also studied it and submitted an initiative for action, and I will be brief about this. Indoor air problems are common in many schools in our country as well as in day-care centres and public spaces. In Finland, about 800,000 people are exposed to indoor air problems every day. Indoor exposure can cause many diseases and symptoms. Diseases and problems associated with moisture damage include respiratory diseases, allergies, nausea, vomiting, headaches, fatigue, and others. These are not taken seriously, but are often recorded against the will of the person concerned as mental illnesses in mental patient statistics. Identification of disease at the earliest possible stage and early intervention are prerequisites for preventing the disease from getting worse. For example, the fall of a sick person from working life or the marginalisation of a young person costs a huge amount to society. In 2014, environmental sensitivity was added to the international classification of ICD-10 diseases in Finland under the heading R68.81: Continuous or repeated exceptional sensitivity to conventional environmental factors. This code does not describe the illness but the symptoms and thus does not justify, for example, social insurance benefits. Thus, social security does not recognise the specific needs of those affected by indoor air, such as the extra costs of moving to a less symptomatic housing. As time is running, I would like to conclude by saying that I have submitted an initiative for action on this and I would like it to be dealt with extensively. I therefore hope that the government will take measures to classify environmental sensitivity as a disease rather than a symptom, to define disease codes for environmental sensitivity diseases, and to increase the up-to-date training in the treatment of environmental sensitivity in health care. This is very brief.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u32	President! It can be said that the ombudsman institution is the gift of our Western neighbour to humanity and the universe: even in Anglo-Saxon language, the word "ombudsman" is spoken in Swedish. It's all over the place with that term. In Paasikivi's words, there is nothing we can do about our geography, but at least this has resulted in us being among the first to have this institution, which is an organic part of a functioning society, the rule of law, an institution that really monitors the realisation of fundamental rights and the possibility of a decent human life. Mr President! Here some speakers, the previous speaker and representative Mäkelä, referred to the Freedom of Religion Act. I did not really want to talk about it, but I remember when during the previous parliamentary term in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs the issue of civil service was discussed, and I have to say quite frankly that it seemed rather corny: would there not be more important issues before us when experts folded about it and wrote expert opinions? Yes, quietly, I thought that the time for scholars is now wasted with such questions. I am particularly surprised by this, however, when we have had 15 years soon, as I recall since 2003, the Freedom of Religion Act, whose spirit has thus been the realization of positiveness. We have long had such a legal tradition that what is not specifically prohibited,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u33	Mr President! I would like to highlight another phenomenon which, in my view, has numerous links with fundamental rights. I call it the bureaucratic grievances of social security. In my home town of Tampere, there are almost 40 pages of a normal income support application for a lonely person when you are not ill, when you are not a temporary worker or a special case for other reasons. If you are a family member, the normal application is easily 80 pages. It is known that a significant proportion of those applying for income support are people with substance abuse and mental health problems, elderly people, uneducated, immigrants or otherwise who do not have a very high capacity to deal with difficult, bureaucratic issues. It is also known that, according to estimates, as many as 50% of those who are entitled to income support do not apply for it and that bureaucracy is likely to be one of the main reasons why this is being done. This means that there may be up to 200,000 people in Finland who live on a monthly income of less than EUR 480 just because they are unable to apply for a benefit for them — able, willing, for some reason. In my opinion, this has a clear connection with the necessary care, at least because it is a question of last resort, which has been dealt with in a number of different fundamental rights papers in this context. In my opinion, it is also a question of equality, because the lists of annexes required by different municipalities differ significantly — some provide income support much more liberally, while others have long lists, as we do in Tampere — and also because the support provided by social measures for the submission of these applications varies significantly in different municipalities. In my view, this is also in line with good governance, quite obviously, because it is also a question of requiring annexes which are either not needed at all or whose information is more easily accessible to the benefit handler by directly asking the author of the document. In my opinion, income support bureaucracy affects people's basic income and its security at the moment far more than, for example, the amount of income support. I would like to ask the Ombudsman: what means could the Parliamentary Ombudsman possibly have to deal with this phenomenon or intervene in it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u34	Mr President! Finns — both decision-makers and citizens — are well aware of the need to take action to improve the economy during a period of weak economic conditions. However, during this period of government, economic improvement has hit the weakest groups of people, such as children, the elderly and the disabled. They have spoken harshly when cuts have been made to almost all fundamental rights. I consider it dangerous the development that cuts are directed at the most vulnerable people. In this speech, I would like to focus on the elderly who raised the issue in the Ombudsman's activity report. It is not fair at all to cut back on the livelihoods and services of the already low-income elderly. The government’s decision to increase social welfare and health care charges and the cuts in reimbursement of medical expenses really hit the daily lives of many elderly people. However, the worst of all is the fate of elderly people living alone at home and in institutions without the care of their relatives. People living at home experience insecurity and are unable to handle their affairs, as transportation or assistance services, for example, operate poorly. Complaints and reports about care institutions have revealed some shocking shortcomings in the care of the elderly: insufficient or poor food, saving in diapers, rehabilitation and outdoors, even silent medication — simply a lack of good care and treatment. The message received must be taken seriously and the shortcomings must be corrected. This is not a question of individual cases and minor problems, as tens of thousands of elderly people live in institutional care and in service housing units. Often, neglect of care for the elderly is due to insufficient staff. I think it is very bad that the government is going to allow a reduction in staffing, when it is well known that the reduction in the number of carers increases the safety risks for the elderly and reduces the ability of carers to do good care. Nevertheless, the government plans to impose a staffing limit of only 0.4 per carer in enhanced service housing and nursing homes for the elderly. The saving effort is highly questionable and is unlikely to reach the target of EUR 70 million, as THL, among other things, has estimated that the savings will not exceed EUR 20 million. A sufficient number of patients is one step for the better. Municipalities must also provide decision-making, guidance and information for elderly services, organise the services provided without delay and, most importantly, ensure self-monitoring. In addition, there is a need for adequate supervision by regional government authorities and they must have sufficient resources to monitor and address the lack of care in both homes and care facilities. Instead of savings, care for the elderly desperately needs to be developed. It is both humanly wise and economically sensible to promote preventive services and rehabilitation. The elderly themselves tell us that the most hurt is indifference and loneliness. I am therefore in favour of a lighter model of community housing as an alternative to heavy institutional care and living alone, in which everyday security and services are realised. It is our job to guarantee a valuable life for the elderly, their livelihood and their care. The most important value of care for the elderly remains respect for human dignity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u35	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 7/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u36	Mr President! Very briefly. In general, these car tax laws raise a lot of debate, but this time it is a very small change based on the Commission's official remark to Finland and the statement of reasons. The amendment in question amends the car tax law so that leasing and rental cars exported from the country can be subject to a prior refund of the car tax, and at the same time the conditions for the export refund of the car tax are also somewhat relaxed. It has been clearly pointed out in expert consultations that these changes in the terms of the law improve the operating conditions of the Finnish car industry and thus support this sector. This report was unanimous in both the tax section and the committee. Of course, this may have some effects on the trade side, but it is very difficult to assess its fiscal impact. Let's talk about a relatively small part. In 2014, export refunds were applied for in some 200 cars, which totalled 1.7 million, of which leasing cars accounted for EUR 600000. Whether there will be any change in the movement between countries in the future will of course remain to be seen, but the assumptions that were available and the obligations imposed on us by the Commission have been made by this government proposal, which the committee will indeed unanimously bring to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u37	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 13/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u38	Mr President! I now present the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government's proposal to amend the Mining Act on 57/2016. This proposal proposes to amend the Mining Act. Changes are proposed for the maximum area of the gold flushing area and for the period of validity of the gold leaching permit. The maximum area is proposed to be changed from 5 hectares to 7hectaresand gold leaching licences The aim is to enable efficient gold flushing and full recovery of the gold leaching site and to increase the conditions for more sustainable exploitation of natural resources and to create the necessary and appropriate conditions for gold leaching to continue operations in the long term. The Government’s proposal would give the mining authority greater powers than at present to determine the area of the gold flushing area and the validity of the authorisation in the case of a decision to extend the gold leaching permit. It is also proposed to amend the maximum area of the gold-washing area, i.e. from 5 hectares to 7 hectares, but that the Authority retains a wide-ranging area-based The Government's proposal also aims to extend the duration of extension permits from 3 to 10 years. No amendments are proposed to the rules governing the expiry, amendment or withdrawal of the gold-washing authorisation, as are the provisions relating to the rights of the Sámi. This law is intended to enter into force on 1 July this year. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously supports the adoption of a legislative proposal without amendment, with the following comments: The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes that the proposed amendments aim to improve the relationship between the duration of the authorisation and the flushing area in order to improve the long-term and predictability of operations. The aim of these changes is also to contribute to the preservation of the gold-washing culture. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also agrees with the statement made in the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that the elimination of cycles of authorisation for extractive activities is likely to improve cooperation between authorities and the coordination of supervisory work. The committee has also drawn attention, like the Environment Committee, to the fact that the end of mechanical gold mining from the Lemmenjoki River in 2020 can increase pressure in other areas. In this way, the importance of up-to-date and balanced legislation will be emphasised. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy estimates that the proposed changes will reduce the administrative burden on both authorities and applicants in the authorisation process without jeopardising the benefits to be protected by the authorisation processes. The Committee on Economic Affairs has also drawn attention to the amount of the guarantee under Article 107 of the Mining Act. When considering the amount of the security, the Authority should stress the importance of the area covered by the gold leaching area and the change is not intended to increase the total amount of the security required. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has also considered that the proposed changes are, as a whole, a balanced solution between the interests of gold leaching, indigenous peoples and primary producers. In this context, I cannot fail to stress that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is unanimous in proposing that Parliament approve the bill contained in the Government proposal HE 57/2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u39	Mr President! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection was not unanimous in the discussion of this draft law, but left-wing Greens, Left-wing Unions and the RKP disagreed. At a detailed point-by-point reading, I shall propose amendments to Articles 65 and 169 in line with this difference of opinion, which mean that these articles will remain unchanged. The fact that the extension of the authorisation for gold leaching is extended from 3 to 10 years is a quite significant change, as is the fact that the activity may continue even if the authorisation has been appealed against. For example, Metsähallitus' opinion called for the extension to be moderated. The Ely Centre of Lapland also stated in its opinion that the impact of this change on the environment has not been adequately assessed in the Government's proposal. According to the opinion of the Sámi Parliament, complaints about gold flushing permits and the length of processing periods resulting from their handling have been due to insufficient environmental assessment of the impact of mining activities on the environment. These shortcomings should have been addressed by developing the authorisation process instead of reducing the frequency of processing of authorisations. After all, gold washing changes the environment, and if nature is ruined, it cannot be restored. Yes, landscape can, but it is not the same as getting the unpolluted nature back. Here is briefly the reasons why, at a point-by-point reading, I am presenting the various opinions contained in the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u40	Mr President! The chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has described the situation in which this bill is based. I myself think that when we talk about a law that affects the livelihoods of the Sami people and the nature and environment there, then we should, with a particularly sensitive ear in this house, listen to the opinion of the village assembly of the Sámi people and the coins. When they have taken an extremely critical view of this, then I wonder for myself why this criticism has not been taken into account more strongly, and that is why I would support the proposals made by the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u41	Mr President! This bill on gold leaching in the Mining Act is practical and it is hoped for in these gold leaching areas of Lapland. It lightens the associated licensing bureaucracy and, in my view, at the same time takes account of environmental factors, indigenous peoples and other livelihoods. This bill therefore proposes an increase in the maximum area of gold leaching by two hectares and then an extension of the extension of the permits for gold leaching to ten years. In my view, these changes do not undermine the operating conditions of other industries and are justified. The tradition and tradition of gold leaching is quite long in Lapland, it goes all the way back to the 1860s, and it is terribly important that there should also be further processing around the gold leaching and its added value increase. Especially with tourism, gold-washing has for a long time been working together. A large part of the gold leaching is already carried out by shovel digging, and the mechanical excavating, which will then end in Lemmenjoki by 2020, will lead to a large proportion of these gold leaching permits continuing to be shovel permits. Everyone may then wonder how much is done to the soil when digging with a shovel. I do not think it is that difficult or complicated to restore it in relation to shovel digging. I believe that this amendment, which the government is proposing, is justified. It has also been hoped for in the field of the gold-washing industry and has very high local economic significance. In terms of regional economics, this is a very important issue, and Lapland is a large province to the extent that it is able to live side by side with untouched nature and different livelihoods.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u42	Mr President! I mean, you gotta remember, it's shovel digging, shovel digging. It is hard to imagine that a shovel will at all cause environmental damage that would then not be able to be restored. We must also remember that this security fee is attached to the excavating table. This security fee is provided by the miner because, if necessary, this security fee will then be used for the restoration of the area. But then the reason why this kind of government proposal actually had to be made is simply that when permits have been in force for three years, so in practice, when this three-year period has been applied for for a further permit, the processing of this new extension permit has not been made because the Sámi Chambers have invariably complained about every excavator except for the Saami hachem mining permits. This difficulty in the licensing process is that the miner will have no time but to devote himself to this further application. That is why we have wanted to increase this period from three to ten years. This is a traditional, long-term, historical culture in Lapland, and making this work possible is important for both the Lapps and the whole of Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u43	Mr President! When I have discussed reindeer husbandry with the Sámi business quite often, it has repeatedly become apparent in these discussions that reindeer husbandry is treated as unused land by other industries and also by public authorities. I believe that this bill is one example of such an attitude. However, reindeer farming is also an industry that brings income and work and is also a key attraction for tourism. Reindeer is about the only big mammal that can be seen in Europe, for example, when driving a road, and can therefore be seen in areas other than fenced pastures, in forests and on roadsides. I would also like to remind you that in addition to the Sámi Parliament, Metsähallitus was critical of this government proposal, which wanted the extension to be moderated — from three to ten years is a big leap, it is more than three times — and also the Ely Centre in Lapland, as I said in my first speech, has stated in its opinion that the environmental impact of this change has not been sufficiently assessed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u44	Mr President! Gold leaching has cultural and regional economic significance locally in Lapland, and it is worth making sure that it too can survive and develop there. However, this action will undoubtedly also have an environmental impact, even if it is not on an industrial scale, so it is a question of balancing and taking into account and coordinating different aspects of this legislation. The chairman of the committee said that this bill came from the Economic Committee unanimously, and that is the case, but unfortunately I was not able to attend the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. If I had been able to be there, then this would not have been unanimous, for I personally believe that this extension is too long, from 3 to 10 years. This has been reflected in these opinions, including the opinion of Metsähallitus. If this extension were to be extended, a more moderate extension, such as five years or something else, would have been, in my opinion, a more reasonable and balanced option.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-08-ps-66.u45	Madam President! When I say that this came from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously, this has indeed been the case. Of course, Mr Sarkkinen was not present at the time, but the representative of the Greens, Mr Vartia, was there. But I would say that this government proposal has no impact on reindeer husbandry or has no impact on the environment. The question in this authorisation process is whether to apply for a permit extension every three years or every ten years. These flushing sites are there. In any case, the method of flushing is the same shovel digging, meaning that there is no impact on reindeer husbandry. They don't disappear from there. In that sense, there is no change in grazing reindeer, nor is there any impact on the environment. Whether a permit is applied for every three years, which is really difficult because of these complaints, or every ten years, in any case the flushing sites are there. As has been said, in these, the holder of the licence also leaves a security sum, which then guarantees that if these places are not restored when the flushing in the area ends, this security amount will then be used for that restoration.
