ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u1	The fourth item in the order of business is the election of the Nordic Council delegation in Finland. I note that the election is unanimous and that Parliament elects the following representatives as members and alternates of the delegation:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u2	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 7/2015 vp. The content of the legislative proposals will now be decided and a general debate will take place. As far as the debate is concerned, the chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr Tolvanen, will take the first floor, will present the report, then there will be a few speeches from the list of speakers, and if there is a debate, then it will be possible to continue with it. — Mr Tolvanen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u6	Madam President! Firstly, I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for the fact that, although we had very considerable differences of opinion on this proposal, we were able to hold a very good and respectful debate. During the last term, Parliament decided to amend the marriage law by a narrow majority so that it would become gender neutral. The decision was based on equality and equality. It was a particularly difficult decision, because the generalisation that somehow all relationships should be equal and equal will never happen in practice. Or can any congressman here seriously claim that all his relationships are equal? That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u9	Mr President! The majority of the last parliament made a decision to amend the marriage law on the basis of false images. The amendment of the Marriage Act was required and marketed as a human and equality issue, which it is not to the least. As the parliament pleases one minority, it undermines the fundamental values of society. Who can claim that a family of men and women is not a basic building block of society?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u12	Mr President! At this point, it is a good time to thank Prime Minister Sipilä and the Government for correcting these laws and respecting democracy and the way in which we take decisions here, and to take account of human rights. The fact that an equal marriage law will come into force in a year's time is a happy, big and happy thing for so many Finnish couples and families. The fact that this point, after this long process, after all these discussions, is being rejected would be very cruel and truly unreasonable for many Finns. Mr President! Equal marriage and now repairs are part of the change that increases equality between people in Finland. This change will help all young people who are afraid, insecure and afraid to be themselves. It helps all couples who want an equal opportunity to build a family and acknowledge their own love before the law. And this is something that is not out of anyone, it is not out of any of us. Mr President! It is quite true what was said earlier: it is not only the rights of sexual minorities that are at stake in correcting these laws; it is also a big issue of children's rights. And when decisions are made about children, we should all be able to put the child’s interests ahead of our own political differences. Mr Laukkanen is absolutely right that, when we in the Committee on Legal Affairs heard experts, a great many experts raised the issue of children's interests and stated that even after these changes, the child's interests are not yet realised and that Finnish children are not all in an equal position. But contrary to what the representative Mr Laukkanen points out that their conclusions were quite different. That is why the committee in its report states that, in addition to these laws, we should, for example, amend the Fertility Treatment Act, which is not being corrected in this package of proposals. When the Fertility Care Act does not allow female couples to receive treatment as a couple, it leaves a newborn child without legal protection. Another mother must always go through the adoption process after the child is born, and this process can be very long. In Finland, almost every other day a child is born with a second parent from birth, but our legislation does not recognise the existence of that other parent. And this means that if this newborn baby were to face such a tragedy that a mother, for example, would die in childbirth, in the eyes of our law this child would be an orphan even if she had another mother. Or if the baby’s parents are divorced, the child has no right to another parent, no right to that inheritance, nor does this parent have that maintenance obligation. So it's a big deal about the rights of the child. This isn't right. And I agree with Mr Laukkanen that we should reflect on this issue in this regard, from the point of view of children's rights. But the happy news is that this is something that is really easy to fix. The Legal Affairs Committee was in favour of updating the Fertility Care Act in order to comply with the international laws on the law which Finland is also committed to. We are committed to the fact that the rights of children, the status of children must never be affected by the qualities of the parents, nor by the sex of the parents, nor by anything else. The good news is that there is a maternity law in the Ministry that would deal with this matter and safeguard the position of children born to female couples in Finland. And as we speak, names are also being collected for the citizens' initiative, so that the maternity law can finally be brought to the attention of Parliament. I hope, at least, that the Ministry will take this issue seriously and will ensure, in its future actions, that we guarantee equal rights for children and that the maternity law is enacted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u13	If you want to go to the debatt, I'll ask you to sign up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u14	Madam President! Representative Emma Kari made many references to my view of the child’s right. To avoid a misunderstanding, the point of view I am looking at is that the child always has the right to father and mother, not that the child always has the right to mother and mother or father and father. For the sake of clarity, I would like to correct that we are thinking a little differently about children's rights here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u15	Mr President! Indeed, this report by the Committee on Legal Affairs is doing the will of the previous Parliament. In December 2014, those who were here themselves voted in favour of who voted and some voted against. I respect the opinions of all these people, and I believe that democracy must be respected and respected. Now, obviously, a so-called 'Authorised Marriage' citizens' initiative is coming into the house, which is a so-called 'anti-initiative'. Then, in some form, the House, the Parliament, will probably have to deal with what is being done so far. But what the Committee on Legal Affairs has done has been done with care, within the limits required by Parliament and the government. In my view, when this main issue was decided last season, these amendments to the law, which have been discussed and presented in the report, are essential for everyone's benefit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u16	Mr President! Yes, we can do all we want, which is best for the child, but yes, I have a natural approach, at least for myself, that the best growing environment for the child is, if at all possible, a family of father and mother. In the case of adoption, we should secure as much a growing environment as possible for a child as the one from which he or she has been adopted. It is natural if, as a result of the sudden death of the parents, there are no other persons to adopt children than some outside person who is not related. I cannot understand the situation that the social welfare authority will then start to wonder whether two people of the same sex are as good at raising children as the father and mother who would become a new father and mother to them, two people of different sex. I am not disparaging people of the same sex with this, but it is a natural choice that a child needs a father and a mother, and especially a child in a traumatic state needs to be created as natural a growing environment as possible. This shouldn't be removed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u17	Madam President! In many ways, this is an historic moment. This is the first law that has come through the citizens' initiative, which, I might say, will be finalised with these accompanying laws. I appreciate the position of the chairman of the committee on this: he said that democracy has spoken and now it is our duty, on the basis of this government's proposal, to bring this legislation to an end. I can't imagine anyone thinking that it would be out of any of us if male or female couples were allowed to marry each other. But, Mr President, here is an interesting situation. Obviously, it is a government proposal approved by the Finnish ministers, including Timo Soini, in the government. Minister Lindström has presented this, but the government's front is not enough to move this law forward here in Parliament, but now the situation is that the government has to rely on opposition in this matter. We support this report by the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u18	Madam President! A political decision on an equal marriage law was taken during the last parliamentary term, and I would like to express my thanks and appreciation to the government for now making these technical changes to the law, as required by the democratically adopted decision. Mr Laukkanen said in his speech that this is not technology. Yes, at the time when the decision has been taken, this simply complements the decision taken in the last period. It has been said here that a child must have the right to a father and a mother. In my opinion, a child should have the right to safe parents or parents. In fact, even today we have a large number of children who have only one parent or have parents of the same sex. That is why I would like, and I would hope, to refrain from criticising or assessing who are better or worse parents. Let's give it to all the kids.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u19	Mr President! It is indeed a good thing that the government and the Legal Affairs Committee have now made these technical changes acceptable, so that the will of the Parliament, which has been adopted through the last Parliament and the citizens' initiative, now becomes the law as a whole. But there are shortcomings in this proposal. The government has left out this maternity law and the amendment or making of the translation. From the point of view of human rights, it is sad that this debate is still trying to force Finnish reality into what it is not. We have families and children who already live in rainbow families, and here it is implied that the right of these children to their own real parents would be weaker than the right of children of other families to their own real parents. Therefore, I would see that a change in the maternity law is really important, because it is important that the child’s parents can have it before the law automatically as quickly as possible, regardless of their gender. I'm glad you did.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u20	Madam President! It has been known for many months that in the near future a new citizens' initiative will arrive in Parliament, called a genuine marriage. The citizens' initiative calls for marriage to continue as a marriage between a man and a woman. I would like to ask the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs why the government is now in such a hurry to bring these accompanying laws into this parliamentary procedure, because it casts doubt that this is the way in which we are going to try to water down the possibility of this new citizens' initiative being dealt with properly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u21	Mr President! Mr Östman, on behalf of the government, I am not in a position to respond, but on behalf of the Legal Committee, that last autumn, when we discussed this government proposal, this citizens' initiative, the so-called'real marriage', was not yet ready, and I believe it has still not arrived in this house. In other words, it was not ready at the time, and it could not under any circumstances be linked to this debate. It must be remembered that Parliament was obliged to act quickly and quickly on these matters, and the Committee on Legal Affairs has done so. And I would also like to point out that, in these Government proposals, the entry into force of these laws will now be in just over a year's time, i.e. 1 March 2017. If any changes are made to that basic legislation by means of a citizens' initiative, then, of course, these laws will also be affected — if this happens.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u22	Mr President! I too would like to thank the government for having, in my view, well prepared these technical amendments of the law and have been adopted by a large majority in the committee. In fact, the vast majority of the committee have also recognised that there are still shortcomings that need to be resolved. However, among other things, 'a review of the need to amend the Act on the strengthening of the transsexual sex is appropriate', says the committee, and this maternity law, that this situation, as it stands, is not ideal for children's rights. From my own experience, I can say that when you have a child — I have adopted three children myself, and the Finnish system has been such that it takes six months before it is a legal right — it is a tremendous worry about what would happen to a child if I died if my spouse died, what would happen. We ourselves will then be faced with private-law systems which, at least financially, could safeguard the future of the child. That's how I feel.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u23	Madam President! I believe that we are now dealing with fundamental human rights issues. In that sense, I am also a little surprised by what Mr Lindtman has said, that this policy is now starting to take place on this issue. To Mr Niiko, I would like to say that, of course, opinions can be expressed here in the Chamber, each of us has one. But last summer we received a very extensive study of 19,000 scientific articles from the University of Colorado, and researchers are in complete agreement that children who grew up in traditional families or rainbow families do not differ in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u24	Madam Speaker! We are once again working on the same issue that has been under attack for several years — unfortunately. About seven years ago, I spoke about the so-called gay man in the Chamber, and there was an extraordinary national babble in my speech, which forced me to visit the President of the present Republic to explain my position. I asked then, so I asked then, I did not accuse anyone: is there yet a time when someone is marrying a doggie they love? I mean, I asked, I didn't blame anyone. Some of them pulled a pea in the nose and claimed that I had blamed a certain group. Even then, in my speech, I expressed my concern that it was all right to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u25	Mr President! I agree with the people who thank me here. I thank the government and the Prime Minister for making progress on this issue, as we decided democratically in this House last year. Unlike Mr Laukkanen, I dare to suspect that last season the decision was very well thought out and well dealt with. As a member of the Legal Committee itself, we dealt with the matter in the Legal Committee for four months and heard some 60 experts and we also received a lot of written statements, so the decision has been made on the basis of expert opinions. I somehow thought that this matter would have been closed here, but it does not seem to be the case, but we will continue to deal with it here. Here, when we talk about this new genuine marriage, whatever the real marriage is, I can think that this issue will continue to be dealt with here for this period as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u26	Madam President! Many of the speeches here have gone behind the back of the previous Parliament and have said that now only the will of the previous Parliament is respected. However, Parliament has also often expressed the need to include the impact assessment of children in all legislative projects against children, and last season the Ombudsman for Child Welfare in the Committee on Legal Affairs stated that if the citizens' initiative is to proceed with the drafting of the law, an explicit assessment of the impact on children must be carried out in the preparation process. And in this context of accompanying laws there would have been an excellent opportunity to do this. Unfortunately, it has not been done, and in that sense I really find it a shame to remember that this has a direct impact on adoption legislation and precisely because the amendment to the law on marriage will mean that there will be several countries that will ban adoption in Finland, which will make it difficult for all couples to adopt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u27	Madam President! These proposals to correct and finalise the laws are good and the committee's report is good and well-founded. However, as has been shown in this debate, there are still shortcomings that need to be addressed in the future in relation to these laws. I would have liked to see at least one minor flaw corrected in this connection, which I took the initiative at the beginning of the autumn season. It was therefore a question of changing the name of the law on the strengthening of the transsexual sex to better match the correct language. The name is based on the translation word "transsexual" and in English the word "sexual" is in practice wrong. The right thing would be a transgender, more in line with current practice, and this could easily have been corrected in the context of this reform. I would have asked the chairman of the committee whether this was even on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u28	Mr President! Last season, the citizens' initiative and its implementation here in Parliament strengthened the belief of many Finns in democracy, and now we must thank the government and the committee for the work they have done, that this matter is now being properly completed. Mr Laukkanen mentioned here that this is not just a question of technical changes; it is a question of fundamental rights. In fact, I feel the same way that this society is based on long-term relationships, sometimes long-term relationships, based on love. We really are dealing with the basic elements of society, and this is the foundation of society that this legislation now strengthens. Representative Laukkanen also mentioned that the churches will, in due course, deal with this matter in their own process. I appreciate everything for the churches and for this process, but I also think it is important that the churches then take a stand on these changes of law in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u29	Madam President! First of all, Mr Arhinmäki, it is terribly difficult to regard as a technical change such that when a man and woman, for example, have been married for 20 years and a man or a woman decides to change their sex, now, with this new law, she does not have to discuss the matter with her spouse, she can carry it out on her own. In this context, this change is so big and significant that once it has previously been required that the decision should be taken together, it does not now have to be taken together. This law also required that, if so, the authority should inform the spouse. It caused a bit of joy in the committee that if someone changes sex in a relationship, then obviously it is noticeable, but if not, then the authority will have to state separately. It's right here in the text. It doesn't have to be heaven-shapeed. Yes, this is the case in the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u30	Madam President! I think it is very important and, in principle, right that a person of adult age should have the right to decide for himself whether or not to have sex corrected, that it is not the decision of the spouse on behalf of the person.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u31	Madam President! For my part, I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr Tolva, for his presentation of the matter, which is very specific. Last season, when the previous Parliament voted on the equal marriage law, on the citizens' initiative, we all knew that the result of that vote will affect a great many laws, it will have consequences for many laws. At the time, I personally felt that marriage was a marriage between a man and a woman, and I still agree, but I respect the decision that was then the result of the vote. And my own opinion is that the government and the Committee on Legal Affairs have now followed and respected the previous Parliament's vote and this is the way forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u32	Mr President! I think it is very fresh to be able to agree with the opposition at times. I would also like to correct some of the views expressed by Mr Laukkanen and the 28 experts who presented shortcomings in the drafting of the law. These shortcomings were precisely related to the fact that this is not, as it were, sufficiently balanced in terms of equality in relation to, for example, this law on transgenderity and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u33	Mr President! In this respect, I think that Mrs Torniainen has said everything that is relevant recently — a very good speech. In fact, it would be desirable for us all to have a little similar attitude, regardless of what our personal position is. After all, the political decision on this matter was taken during the last period, and I am sure that everyone knew then that it was going to bring about changes to other legislation, and now there are changes here. There are still a few other changes that we hope will be made with this rapid timetable, and then this has been brought to the end. Personally, at least I am going to say that, here in Parliament, no matter what my position, certain decisions that the previous Parliament has taken will be followed up and, according to them, we will move forward. Then I would say, when this gate theory is always cultivated here on every issue, that the worst aspect of its theory, such as Mr Oinonen, is that it always seems to apply when it is useful to you. That sometimes I wonder what kind of theories I use to fight things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u34	Mr President! Parliament has discussed the concept of marriage and the law of marriage very much in recent years. Even now there's quite a lot of old repetitions in the air. I feel like there's a little new to be said. However, I myself would like to draw attention to this argument that this equal marriage law would undermine the concept of marriage or the institution of marriage. In my opinion, the opposite is the case here. If more and more couples who today do not come under the law of marriage want to be included in it and to be included in it by means of this amendment of the law, it will strengthen the institution of marriage, because more and more people will be included in it. In other words, those who consider marriage to be an important institution but cannot reach it today will soon be able to enter it, sailing to the port of marriage. I wish you a warm tailwind for more and more sails.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u35	Madam President! Many thanks have been expressed here in this Chamber, and the speeches have started with thanks. I would say at this stage that, regardless of my own position — political or religious or, in general, the attitude towards gender-neutral marriage law and the accompanying laws in these proceedings — I am surprised that the Members of Parliament do not stop at what they — we, you — have already decided during the last period and in the past, how Parliament operates and what rules are followed, but, on the contrary, the Members of Parliament in their further decisions are acting against their own previous regulations. I am talking here about the fact that Parliament has called for an assessment of the impact of children to be carried out in all legislative or regulatory changes affecting children in one way or another. This was not done at the time of the last period before the adoption of the gender-neutral marriage law, and now still
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u36	Madam President! According to Déjà-vu Wikipedia: "Déjà-vu means a confusing and strong sense of familiarity in a situation. A person must feel that he has experienced the present situation before, even though he often knows that it is impossible." You could add: or you don't think it's true. Thank you to the government then, as they should be. I welcome the fact that the first citizens' initiative, which was adopted, has been respected and brought to our attention by the government. Thank you to the Legal Committee for your good work. It has to be said that, compared with previous debates, we have changed that we are having a proper discussion. We remain fair and respectful of each other, and that is probably some sort of achievement. From this law: I believe that the child’s best interests are loving and safe parents offering a home. I hope the child has two parents, but just as valuable and a good home is a home offered by a single parent. I believe that this law, when it comes into force, will support more and more families and more children to have a safe and supportive family — a supportive family, not a fat one.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u37	Mr President! Here in Parliament it is often said that legislation should be based on researched information. As has also become clear in this debate when information is against its own preconceptions, then that information will be thrown into a scrap heap. Few things have been studied as much as the impact of the older sex on the development of the child. According to studies published in peer-reviewed scientific publications, the gender of the parents has no impact on the development of the child, except perhaps that children raised by same sex parents are slightly more tolerant than others. Secondly, the idea of marriage and love by the opponents of this presentation is completely foreign to me. It is as if sex defines marriage rather than love and respect for one another and a change in spouse’s sex somehow resets its love and respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u38	Madam President! There has been concern during the debate that the representatives did not have time to learn about the effects. This is a very sensitive subject, and during the last parliamentary term, when an attempt was made to export this matter through a bill, I did not sign that bill. The reason was that I was not quite sure how to deal with this child’s interests. At the time when the citizens' initiative came, I had had enough time to get to know it myself, I signed it. I feel that the extension of the concept of marriage is by no means, for example, out of myself, which I have been married for almost 30 years. Now to this opposition-government arrangement. Citizens' initiatives have traditionally respected the freedom of conscience of representatives. I hope that this will be the case in the future and that we will not seek to put a wedge between each other in order to break the government front. Let's go through freedom of conscience.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u39	Madam President! The starting point for this whole debate is that one citizens' initiative has been adopted in this Chamber a year and a half ago. The views expressed in this debate, knowing that the anti-Citizens' initiative is likely to be coming to Parliament soon, illustrate these problems with the system of citizens' initiatives that has been introduced into our constitution. As a member of the Constitutional Committee itself, I hope that the citizens' initiative in Finland will change in some way, that there will be no need for such basic debates on democracy and the legal system for every controversial citizens' initiative, because this is a bit strange. We all have to wonder whether or not we are politically and morally bound by the citizens' initiative that has been adopted and whether we can, as it were, be free to vote here or whether it should be respected or not. Something must be done about this system, the requirement for the number of authors of the initiative to be increased or some kind of cooling-off period for this system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u40	Mr President! The first time I hear myself that the Members of Parliament are concreteising the laws of the previous Parliament, although they know very well that when the government changes, the political line and the laws change. It's all going on. Every four years, this happens. Now suddenly it has been made such a blissful miracle that the decisions of the previous Parliament must be kept. This is all nonsense. But what, Mr Plant and Mrs Kärnä, Mikko, you mentioned about these similar legislative changes that have been made, in fact, when these corresponding changes to the law on marriage have been made in other countries, they are so short-lived that there are no proper investigations there, especially in the case of adoption. There are studies on the children of the rainbow family, but remember that there is always another biological parent in general. In that sense, there are no long-term studies on adoption into families of the same sex, and in that sense this is so new that we do not know.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u43	Mr President! To Mr Niiko, this study was not about examining the effects of any legislative changes, but about examining and reviewing 19000 studies evaluated in scientific comparisons,which found that there were no differences in whether a family of children with children is growing in a heterogeneous family, or whether a family of rainbows is growing up as a parent of one child. And I would also like to thank Mrs plant for her excellent speech. I do ask that if this is not enough for you to assess the impact of children, then what a miracle is enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u44	Värderade Talman! There has been a lot of talk here about the rights of the child, and just as Mr Kärnä has pointed out here, it does not need to be guessed, it may be based on investigations into it. The second study was done at the University of Melbourne. It interviewed a large number of children living in families of same-sex parents and other children living in families where parents are of different sex. It studied happiness, perception of oneself, family, health, and so forth. And on almost all indicators these were on the same level as in the rest of the population — except for how to experience the strength and unity of one’s own family: when measured, children living in families of same sex parents had a much higher level, i.e. stronger families. This amendment of the law strengthens families accordingly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u45	Madam President! Indeed, here during the last period, the Ombudsman for Children has said that it would be important to carry out an impact assessment specifically for children. This is a Finnish authority, and he also states in his opinion that the Ministry of Justice recommends that an evaluation be carried out in its guidelines — that is, a person whose job is specifically to ensure the status of children, the respect of rights in legislation, and that he also contributes to the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in Finland. However, when he says so forcefully, this Chamber prefers to bring up American studies and not begin to carry out the authority’s will mode that he has presented. And I have to take into account this issue of adoption. Indeed, this will close Finland to many countries as an adoption country. In that sense, this would also have been something that should have been studied: how will this affect the chances of adoption for all, i.e. for all, for all couples. About me.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u46	Madam President! Representative Essayah, when he is concerned about the fact that many countries may no longer have accepted Finland’s policy since the adoption of an equal marriage law. But as a counter-question, I'd like to say: Can we fail to implement human rights simply because a country that uses gender and sexual minorities, for example, as a scapegoat for its own problems, does not accept our rules? On the contrary, should we not set an example and, through the international community, try to influence these countries in such a way that gender and sexual minorities in the world are not discriminated against? However, a growing number of countries have taken steps towards equality and equality, and in Russia, for example, these so-called homo-propandalais, which came into force, are a relatively new phenomenon, and hopefully they can still be withdrawn at some point there too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u47	Madam President! I would say to Mrs Parviainen that we are unable to influence the legislation of other countries, they draw their own conclusions and their own legislation, and they are now banning these adoptions to Finland. Therefore, research should be carried out into how it affects the adoption possibilities of all couples. At the moment, we do not have any data available on what the future of all Finnish couples will look like for adoption. That is why I feel that an important point has been overlooked here, that these child effects have been left unexplored. This has been required by an expert hearing in the previous Parliament, and in that sense it is a pity that there is a great deal of emphasis and emphasis on the will of the previous Parliament, but then it feels that in other matters it is completely ignored.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u48	Mr President! As we all know, adoptions evaluate each adoption individually and each parent's ability entirely separately, regardless of their sexual orientation. And I'm sure there's a lot of heterosexual couples who aren't necessarily the kind who can... [President MariaLohela : RepresentativeBiaudet, please speak to the microphone. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u51	Mr President! I too would like to join in the thanks that have been expressed to the government. Mr Niikko is right in the sense that this government, if it wanted to, could have tried to slow down this process at this stage. Fortunately, however, this government, to which Mr Nikon's own party belongs, did not want to do so. And we are very grateful for that. At the same time, I would also like to stress to those who oppose this amendment of the law that this amendment of the law does not in any way alter or affect the meaning that each couple and family gives to their own marriage, but that it is only a question of changing the definition of legislation from marriage to treating all couples equally. I am also very grateful for the fact that the committee has drawn attention to the shortcomings of the transfiguration. I hope that the government will have the courage and will to correct the transfiguration too, so that this demand for infertility is removed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u52	Madam President! I would like to tell you about the other views of Mr. Thomas Kurttila, the Commissioner for Children. Indeed, he strongly believes that an equal marriage law is important to adopt. He has said, among other things, that "the law of marriage which is equal for children of sexual minorities is a message of equality in society. A child belonging to a sexual minority must feel perfect just as he is. For children, starting a family is an important goal for the future. A child belonging to a sexual minority must also be able to dream of starting a family, a marriage." This is what the child’s representative Thomas Kurttila says. I myself was not here last season to vote in favour of this equal marriage law, but I was very pleased with that outcome. Our Prime Minister has said that this has already been decided. It has been well said in this hall that love belongs to everyone, and it is strongly true.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u53	Mr President! I am very pleased that that law under the citizens' initiative will come into force and that the accompanying laws relating to it are now being properly dealt with here and all the changes will be brought into force. In spite of this, I disagree with Mr Kurvise, who has a bit of a problem with the fact that a quite opposite citizens' initiative has now been taken. Should this situation now lead to a constitutional change with regard to any requirements or practices of a citizens' initiative? I think no. One such case should not lead to a constitutional amendment being considered, but rather to a few more situations being considered. After all, it is common that the new government may also withdraw legislation from the previous government, or even radically change it. There's nothing special about this. I think we should continue to give citizens' initiatives a fair amount of space.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u54	Madam President! On September 29, more than 106,000 citizens had already expressed their views on this genuine marriage. In other words, it was already known that this new citizens' initiative will arrive at the house on time after certain processes. Nevertheless, on 22 October, by Minister of Justice Jari Lindström, the present government brought these accompanying laws to Parliament for a referral debate. And then Parliament sent these matters to the Legal Committee. So I would still like to know why we could not wait until this new citizens' initiative had arrived in the house. I still wonder about this issue of impact assessment for children. Today, or for many years now, when we in the municipality or here in Parliament have done things about the environment, environmental impact assessments have always been such a black matter. Why could it not have been possible to carry out an impact assessment on children on such an essential issue?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u55	Mr President! I would also like to mention to Mr Kärnä and a few other representatives that we are not here to decide on raising a rainbow family or a heterogeneous family, but on adopting an adoption where a gay and transsexual person can adopt a child outside the family. This is quite different when it comes to research on how a child has been raised in a family, because these research results are not from longitudinal studies, when this is so new around the world — or if so, show me one, because this is, as I mentioned earlier, a social experiment in Finland too, and we do not know where this is going to lead if this adoption gate opens. In that sense, I cannot accept that the right of an adult to have a child is more important than the right of a child to have a parent. Mr President! I hope that, in this context, we can also take into account what I mentioned in my speech, that there is nothing to prevent the adoption of a provision in which a country or organisation, if it so wishes, could make such a provision in the adoption law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u56	Madam President! Mr Niiko's arguments have already been answered on several occasions. Yes, it has been studied, we are not doing any social experiment. I would like to say here that I think it is important that in this debate we respect each other's views and also our religious views, and I will do so. Now the churches must also make their own decisions, and they must also be respected. But we must remember, however, what is this institution in which we sit. This is the Finnish Parliament, and we exercise the secular legislative power, and we go according to the Constitution, and we go according to equality. This is, to a very large extent, a draft law which is absolutely necessary if the spirit of the Constitution is to be adopted. And yes, I agree with the previous speakers, love belongs to everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u57	Madam President! To Mr Niiko, I would like to say: You said that this is a whole new issue and a social experiment. No, it's not. That is what this is all about, we must understand that families are diverse, they have always been. There must have been times when those people have not dared to say out loud that they represent a sexual minority or say out loud that they are a couple of the same sex. The courage to do so today is a fine thing and a good step forward in our society. This is nothing new. That is why this is so important for us to accept that all Finnish families and all those children in those families are in an equal position. Just as Mr Kärnä said, this is about equality. I personally think it is important that religious communities continue to be able to decide for themselves how they want to view themselves, what kind of couples and relationships they want to bless. It is their freedom, but before Finnish law all people must be equal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u59	Mr President! The real issue here is that we also recognise those families that have so far not yet been recognised before the law, and those marriages and relationships that they so wish. There have been many references here to the difficulty of foreign adoption. In other contexts, we have just heard people who work a lot with adoptive families, and they say that the main reason for the reduction in foreign adoptions is not this legislation, but that in the countries of origin, the adoption countries from which children come, conditions have improved so significantly that children will no longer be adopted in Finland or in other European countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u60	Madam President! It was stated here that every person has the right to change genders when he wants to. Of course it is, but if you live in a marriage relationship, it is a bit strange if you suddenly see just one of the hospital’s operating lists that there is a spouse changing gender. It's not right now. . . — — — — Well, that's right, but this isn't about whether someone gets permission or not, it's about that famous life together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u61	Madam President! Mr Laukkanen clearly does not know the questions facing transgender people. First of all, they do not change sex; they correct their sex because they feel it is theirs. This could be a semantic word that could be used out of respect for these people. Secondly, the fact that one of the partners sees the operating room on the list that the spouse is repairing the sex. That process, Mr Laukkanen, is a very long one. It includes psychiatric, psychological support and various conversations. It won't be decided when you go to the store, which means you don't have to worry about it. And this talk about the fact that this law now dictates what couples should be allowed to talk about — it may be good, but I also think of a few things that we can't talk about at home from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u62	Madam President! It's okay that the mood gets a little lighter here. As I said in my previous speech, the process is long. Perhaps my recent choice of words was more expressive that there should not be such a situation in marriage that these things cannot be discussed. If there are six children and the father reports that he has had such a new inner sex and now wants to change his own nature, then the strange thing is that it is no longer necessary to discuss it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u63	Mr President! Sometimes you start to wonder whether it is really the case that the biggest flaws are now related to the fact that in one of the marriages, one of the two parties feels that they are in the wrong sex and wants to correct it and then makes the decision. That is, of course, the way it should be. I do not think this is a good place to go now, Mr Laukkanen, to demonise. It is precisely this assessment of the rights of the child and the impact of child matters that is generally evident in this matter. I would ask the opponents of these accompanying laws that, now that these international studies show that there are no differences between these family forms and the children who have grown up in them, and now that this is probably going to survive here in Finland, would you change your own attitude? Is this right now that after that you think that we can have equal legislation on marriage? Let us hope that this will be answered. Then there's the fact that if you don't want to adopt in any country right now [President MariaLohela : Now in time. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u66	Congressman Räsänen, it's pretty full. — Mr Multala, Mr Niikko, Mr Parviainen, Mr Myllykoski, Mr Tanus and Mr Essayah have been asked to speak. Let's take them, and then we'll take them to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u67	Chairman! I really would urge you to be a representative. You can come to these events when we have the opportunity to get to know people. Here in Parliament, too, people have been invited to share their experiences with people who have corrected their gender. After all, this is nothing to make the person himself decide that now I only want to do it because I want to do it. It is precisely because it feels that it is really born to the wrong sex, and it is a very impressive thing in the life of this person — and very much because this is not fully recognised by our law and requires a really long-term process. On this point, I myself would have liked even stronger positions on our opinion. Neither this nor many other points in the Committee on Legal Affairs could enter an area that does not belong to our sphere of activity but belongs to another administrative sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u68	Mr President! It has been argued here on several occasions that this is a question of equality and equality, that marriage belongs to everyone who just loves, and that is the argument. Quite a bad argument from the legislators in this house, because each of you knows that this has been stated in the Constitutional Committee, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, not to mention the human rights courts, that the law on marriage as it stands is not discriminatory. And yet you here dare to claim that it is discriminatory or unequal. You can say that it is your opinion, but it is not the case under the law, and if we legislate, we should speak to our voters and citizens what is true, and not to any other image. But to the point. Mr Modig, I think you raised this ecclesiastical right to continue to marry only heterosexual couples if they want to do so. This would be desirable, but what happened in Sweden? It took six months for the Swedish Church to start consecrating persons of the same sex, and for what? We already have the same debate in Finland. Since the church has the right to levy taxes, we know,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u69	Mr President! If the church decides to follow the state in the process of reform, it is still a matter for the church. It's not the business of this hall. It is quite unnecessary for us to discuss it, and if Mrs Niikko is active in congregational activity she can then take her message there and discuss it there. I would like to thank Mr Modig for raising these many questions relating to gender correction and for correcting the misunderstandings that have been expressed here. I would like to remind you once again that gender adjustment is an extremely long, difficult and courageous process. Whoever goes into it, regardless of what you or I know or think of such things, we must respect the individual’s courage and willingness to go along with such a demanding and lengthy process. For example, I have been quite close to following this process. They are also nothing to the individual himself from the easiest point of view. The treatments are pretty tough. I would also like us not to spend our time here on how a family member or a mother will then justify her needs to her children, for example, to mend their gender. In any case, we are not in the front line of every table discussion here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u70	Madam President! Here Mr Kärnä said earlier that the Constitution and equality legislation are now being followed. We have had a situation here in Finland so far and for a while, where we have the law of relationships and the law of marriage in parallel. This is the situation in most of the Member States of the European Union. At no time have we come up with such a proposal that it would be contrary to the Finnish Constitution or the Act of Equality in our situation, nor to any international agreement. In that sense, it seems strange why we in Finland cannot continue along this line, which is what the majority of the Member States of the European Union are. To Mr Kärnä, the legislation, including the Constitution, is based on values. Here, from our own values, we are making legislation. All our legislation reflects the values that we want to see in society. Then I would have said to Mr Räsänen that there has been a request here for an assessment of the impact of children, from indices and group sizes of day-care centres. It is quite strange that there is such a great deal to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u71	Madam President! After a long time listening, I thought I would take the floor. I must say that Mr Niikko has already resolved this matter between the church and the state. Change taxation and abolish the right to taxation, is that what Mr Niikko here wanted to propose? Well, I have to say, there's a little attitude here and it's being moralized. This has been a difficult process for me personally, but when I am familiar with this matter, when, in this way, the rights of those children to the inheritance of their parents and their own position in society are strengthened, I cannot question that I believe that this brings them closer to what is guaranteed by the Constitution and that it will safeguard the future of that child. Of course, these changes are necessary. In the United States in 74 C.E., it was only the Supreme Court that admitted black people...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u72	Madam President! I would like to continue with the assessment of the effects on children. It has been said here that 19,000 would have been n-numbers, which would have been studied, but when you look at these studies in the real way that can withstand scientific evaluation, they really cannot stand scientific evaluation. If you just think of how many of them are surveys, for example, if you send a questionnaire to our family, are your children doing well, how many of us would answer that not when terribly bad is this, this and that problem? They are certainly not valid, but vice versa. I would like to ask: no one has answered me so far, which is why the child impact assessments were not carried out at the time and why they could not be carried out now. Since Parliament, you yourself have decided that this should be the case in child-related legislation, why on earth can they not be done properly until this legislation is brought forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u73	The debate will then continue according to the list of speakers, first of all, Mr Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u74	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank the tone of this debate. There has been a proper tone in this Chamber in this debate, although this is certainly an emotional issue, and we have had a constructive disagreement on this. I would also like to thank Mrs Antero Laukka, who has given a good, excellent, constructive speech here. In his speech, he presented this dissenting opinion on the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which calls for these legislative initiatives to be rejected. This will certainly be done at second reading, and the Christian Democratic Group in Parliament is in favour of this rejection. Mr Laukkanen pointed out very well that such a major legislative project, which is now at hand, dealing with the accompanying laws of gender-neutral marriage law, is far from just such a technical change. The effects of these changes extend to the whole of society, and it is already known how many changes are coming into legislation in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, for example. The preparation of the proposal, as has been mentioned here, does not meet the criteria of good governance. It has been unnecessarily hastened, and in particular, as has been the case here in this debate, the unfortunate thing is this neglect on the part of children. The impact assessment for children should be included in all legislation on children. This is what Parliament has required. And since this evaluation was not carried out during the parliamentary procedure of the Marriage Act last season, it would have been important to do so now in connection with the accompanying laws, so that this position on this adoption law could have been established on the basis of the information obtained in the evaluation. We have already been told on several occasions here what has been said in the last period by the child representative and that it is important for him to have an appropriate assessment of this. In his own statement, he also referred to the fact that the Ministry of Justice also recommends that this assessment be carried out in its instructions. In that sense, this is certainly one of the biggest shortcomings of this legislation and, of course, this raised the issue of how the change in this legislation will then affect how all couples in Finland will be able to adopt from abroad, when some countries will then ban adoption in Finland. Another thing that is also related to children is this amendment to the Freedom of Religion Act. After all, the mother alone can no longer decide to include children in the religious community if these guardians are divided on the matter, but a common view of these guardians would be needed. This change applies to all the families of our country, not just to relations between two women or two men. I think it is good to take into account that Mr Tolvanen himself, when he presented this report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, said that this is now in line with the will of the previous Parliament. However, quite clearly, this report then states that this amendment to the Act on Freedom of Religion is not absolutely necessary in the light of the clarification received. It goes further than the amendment required by the law on marriage, since it concerns the determination of the religious status of the child in general, except in those cases where the court has then decided on the division of duties between parents under the law on parental responsibility and rights of access. It is, of course, regrettable that this is really going to be addressed, could you say, in the religious position of children and change it, because it is very important, however, that we have the opportunity to express the presence of this child in the church or in the religious community at the time of the birth and subsequent birth of the child? In a certain way, it may be said that this presentation also increases such rootlessness and nonreligiousness and reduces positive religious freedom. Mr President! Thirdly, what Mr Laukkanen has already pointed out here is that this motion ignores the fact that the Christian churches, which carry out most of the marriage ceremony, have not yet formed a position on this new situation. It is possible that, as a result of the separation of this concept of marriage, some churches may give up their right to marry. This, of course, would significantly increase the costs of the Local Register Offices, and an estimate of the growing costs of the Local Register Offices can only be made crediblely once the decision of the churches is known. It is now good to take a little international view of what has been done in different countries at the time of the adoption of a gender-neutral marriage law, including in Norway. In Norway, when this law was adopted separately, it was further underlined that in order for the Church of Norway to obtain the marriage right of couples of the same sex for its priests, the Council should first decide on that and the liturgy applicable to it. In other words, in Norway it was clearly recorded in the law that there must first be a church decision on this legislation. In my view, this is an important entry in the sense that we must also consider the situation that a church worker with the right to marry in Finland may, in such a situation, get the idea that he will then marry these same sex into marriage, and if, however, the church does not have a liturgy in this matter, then it is important to understand that, in my view, such a marriage is not legal. In some way, this report by the Committee on Legal Affairs could perhaps have been further underlined and clarified, so that there is no possibility of this kind of interpretation, even in this case. The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states that this would not interfere with the doctrines and interpretations of religious communities, such as blessing on marriage. Marriage is part of the right to practice religion in a religious community. It is vital that religious communities maintain complete doctrinal freedom as to what they view as marriage and what they also want to bless in their own ceremonies. In Britain, too, in a similar way, when a gender-neutral marriage law was adopted, it was expressly recorded that this will not affect in any way the position of these Christian churches — in this case the Churches of England and Wales, which have a slightly similar status to that of the Evangelical Lutheran and Orthodox Church in Finland — that it will not affect the doctrinal decisions of these churches. And in some way it would have been hoped that, in the case of these accompanying laws — especially when the freedom of religion law was opened up to restricting the freedom of religion of the child in my opinion, restricting positive religious freedom — this could have been included in that report. Then, as the fourth, last point, I would like to point out that the partnership registered in this proposal is still in force as an official form of partnership for those who have already registered their relationships. However, new registrations would no longer be made. There are already a number of different forms of partnership in the legislation, and now there is more. Such an additional confusion in this situation arises from the fact that couples registered abroad can be registered in Finland even though there is no longer such legislation in Finland. This raises the question of these issues of equality. What, then, if there are couples who feel that they do not want to be married but that the best form of being together for them would be this registered partnership? I already know those who are currently in a registered partnership and who have said that they will not change their registered partnership into a marriage, but what about the people who at present would like to have a right to a registered partnership when this legislation is now being repealed? There are a number of points here which now relate to the forwarding of these legislative proposals and, as I said, the KD Parliamentary Group does not.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u75	Madam President! Mr Essayah raised a number of points which, although raised by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, have not necessarily been dealt with in greater depth. One of these is this strengthening of religion, and the experts were somewhat divided on what to do about it. I personally believe that, on the contrary, it may increase religious freedom — in this case, of course, the religious status of the child remains open and thus for him to decide at the time when he has the right to decide. I think it is quite clear, although we have not really taken the view in this opinion that religious groups still have the right, as has been the case up to now, to decide how they will react. As far as these cost aspects are concerned, which, of course, are of great interest to us, at the moment it is not the case that same-sex couples can enter a registered relationship by the church, so in that sense I might think that these costs might not necessarily be significantly higher. However, it is great to see that these necessary changes to the laws are now moving forward in Parliament on schedule and will enter into force at the same time as the amendment to the law on marriage already adopted in March next year. I have received a lot of feedback that these legislative changes are very important to many people. The experts we heard in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights supported the adoption of accompanying laws now being tabled in order to bring into force the law on marriage under the citizens' initiative. The legislative amendments now proposed have made what can be considered a minimum requirement to transform the marriage law into a gender-neutral. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is right to support the adoption of legislative proposals. However, there were comments and amendments from expert opinions which we took into account in the opinion of the committee. One of our amendments relates to the addition of a transitional provision which allows the examination of the impediments to the marriage of same-sex couples even before the actual entry into force of the law. The aim of this addition is to avoid congestion of local register offices in connection with the adoption of the law. For the same reasons and in order to avoid unnecessary bureaucracy, the committee also decided to support the conversion of registered partnerships into marriage through a simple notification procedure. This notification procedure has also raised objections. The essence of the criticism is that the form of registration of a partnership does not correspond to the pattern of marriage, and therefore the notification procedure alone would be inadequate. However, the concerns of critics of the notification procedure are pointless in the sense that registration of a partnership follows the same legal formula as marriage. Before registration, an examination of the obstacles will be carried out, and at the registration ceremony the couple and the authority will confirm the registration of the partnership. The current differences between marriage and registered partnership are limited to the Witnesses and to the wedding plan to be used, which is also very freely decided upon, at the request of the couple. Mr President! Experts disagreed on the notification procedure for registered partnerships abroad. The committee therefore decided to support the government's proposal so that, in the case of partnerships concluded abroad, the notification procedure is not possible and that couples must remarry separately. However, the committee draws attention to the fact that the maintenance of family benefits, for example, will be taken into account in the event of changes when the changes required by the marriage law are later prepared for legislation in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The committee's discussion also revealed the need for changes which are not directly related to the gender-neutralisation of the marriage law but which would require rapid updating. In particular, the expert hearings highlighted a number of changes to the law on the strengthening of the transsexual sex. As an example, I would like to mention, among other things, the condition of the transfiguration clause for infertility, i.e. the so-called 'translation' clause. forced sterilisation, of which, for example, various international human rights bodies have made comments to Finland. On the other hand, the positive point is that the requirement of singleness is now being removed from the transglacial system. Another deficiency in our legislation relates to the role of female couples. Marriage status does not make it possible to apply for fertility treatment together as a couple, although it is possible for independent women now and thus also for rainbow families — but before the law, the other parent is not older. This is problematic from the point of view of the rights of the child, especially if the ability of a biological mother to care for her child for some reason deteriorates. Even after these legislative changes, adoption within the family is needed. Mr President! I hope that the comments and shortcomings made will be taken into account in the drafting of legislation by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, either in connection with these laws or in separate preparation. At second reading, I will vote in favour of the adoption of these accompanying laws in accordance with the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u76	Mr President! Since I am not a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I am talking about what I feel is right. On the basis of the citizens' initiative, a revision of the Marriage Act was adopted in the Finnish Parliament during the Christmas season, which allows persons of the same sex to enter into marriage. Since I personally did not support the transformation of marriage into sexual neutrality, I will also present or support in due course the legal changes required to change marriage to be rejected. The objection to the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights therefore briefly justifies the grounds for rejection. Changes in marriage, family law and children's rights have been treated as technical changes, even though they affect society as a whole and relate to more than a hundred other laws and regulations, which we will probably be able to discuss later. If the report is now adopted in Parliament, then people will then be unequal in obtaining the status of marriage. People are unequal in the face of the marriage law if not everyone who wants to marry is required to have the same commitment and obligation regarding the procedure of marriage. When entering into a registered partnership, the parties need not promise the other party anything regarding love in sickness and adversity, as must be promised at marriage. The parties to a registered partnership only sign the registration document and there is no need to present at least two witnesses, as must be the case at the time of marriage. What, then, is the purpose of this marriage? I quote from an article: "The legislator must be able to demonstrate the truth of the purpose Every piece of legislation must have a reasonable purpose. The marriage law does not include what is its purpose. The purpose of the marriage law was not established when the law of amendment was enacted under Christmas. By means of marriage law and other family law, it is wise for society to support families made up of two people, in which a bilateral relationship based on the sexuality of people can in principle create new people for the benefit and reproduction of society. Only a man and a woman can breed together, thus having children together. Based on what should society, through the law of marriage and other family law, support all the different relationships formed by two people in the same way by providing them with the same rights and obligations in the law? In the interests of society and children, the union and relationship between men and women is different in nature from that of two people of the same sex. In the interests of society and children, a family of men and women is essentially different in nature from a relationship of two people of the same sex. For what purpose is a marriage law necessary for society to allow two persons of the same sex to enter into a marriage?" According to the Constitution, people are equal. Is Parliament approving this so-called bypass for marriage? When the amendment to the Marriage Act enters into force, same-sex spouses can adopt together, as has been said here. Here, too, there has been a failure to carry out an impact assessment on children, which I thought was very important, at least in this regard. We already know that a number of countries will ban adoptions in Finland. An amendment to the Freedom of Religion Act has been included in the proposal. The mother can no longer alone decide to include the child in the religious community if the guardians disagree with each other, but a common view of the guardians is needed. So this applies to all families. If no agreement can be reached, the child’s membership in the religious community will remain open. I do not quite understand this — is this the intention? So we have freedom of religion, but I always hope that Finnish homes and schools will provide children with Christian education from an early age, which we will also continue as an adult. And why? When each of us sometimes has difficulties and insurmountable obstacles, what can we trust and hope for ourselves? And at the end of the day, Even here in the committee's protest it is mentioned that experts have seen that this has been done too quickly. In time, I will also support the wreckage of this bill on these small grounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u77	Madam President! Representative However, Mr Mäkipää may have underestimated the registered partnership in his speech, but don't worry, Mr Mäkipää, that is why we are now turning it into a marriage. Thank you to the Committee on Legal Affairs for a very good piece of work and a good report which offers good ideas for each of these aspects, and thank you — I agree with what Mr Essayah said — for having discussed it properly. We have been able to disagree constructively and that is valuable. We are clearly an example of man’s ability to evolve if he so desires. But it has now been said that some people feel that they are hiding behind the previous Parliament or behind the decision taken by the previous Parliament, and I personally see it quite differently, because this was not just any government proposal, but this is the first citizens' initiative that Parliament has adopted. I personally welcome the citizens' initiative and a good practice which at best strengthens and deepens our democracy, and when citizens see that the citizens' initiative is capable of bringing things forward, it will certainly strengthen the public's faith in our democracy. I think that this perspective makes it different from some other proposal made in the last period. There has been a lot of talk here about the freedom of religion, and here too, I believe that the committee's report provides good reflection and argument. I understand why the committee has seen it as a problem. Personally, I think that being part of a religious community or community is up to each person, which is why I think it is up to the child itself to decide when he is old enough and able to do so. I personally see that this law is in the best interests of the child because the child’s interests are loving and the parents offering a safe home. I believe that the most important thing... — It has been said here that the family is a basic unit of society and a force that holds together. This is precisely how we support all families, and more and more people can commit to their relationship as they wish, establish a family and thus be the basic unit you are now concerned about. I see quite the other way around, and I think that this is precisely what supports it and is bringing more and more people to the point that, in the eyes of Finnish law too, their families have been accepted. I see that, by adopting this proposal, we are supporting all families in particular and taking a step forward on the road to a more equal society. But it is also very clear from the report and from this debate that there are other laws which lag behind us and do not respect human rights in the necessary way. I see that the transfiguration must be reformed and the maternity law must be reformed. The status of transgender people has been on the table in this debate, and it is regrettable how foreign that is for many and how poorly known the whole issue is. I hope and encourage everyone to engage in dialogue and meet people and to hear what the person's experience and situation are. I am very pleased that the demand for singleness is now being presented, that is, that the couple, the family, do not have to resign in order for the other to be able to correct their sex. This, on the other hand, supports families and relationships and is, of course, essential to the human rights of transgender people. But it is clear here that the most flagrant flaw in the translation, that is, the requirement of infertility is, in my view, a flagrant violation of human rights, and it is quite incomprehensible that in 2016 we castrate a particular group of people, a particular section of our people, we call for infertility, so that they can live as they feel right. I think it's cruel and brutal, and it's not part of a civilised state. Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I hope that if the previous Parliament found the heart and courage to adopt a citizens' initiative on equal marriage law, then hopefully this Parliament will have the heart and the courage to take up the transfiguration and maternity law and reform them to respect human rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u78	Madam President! Thank you, and I would like to add my thanks to Mr Modig for the fact that I am pleased that there has been a proper debate here and that various points of view have been raised. What has come out very concretely is that we look at marriage differently. No matter what you think about gender-neutral marriage laws and these accompanying laws, I do not believe that anyone can challenge if I say that marriage is the only form of relationship in which a child can have the opportunity to be born, grow up and develop with his own father and mother. It is the only form of relationship in which spontaneously, naturally, there is the possibility of a continuation of the family, and in that sense it is a very special form of relationship. Somehow it seems that in time, when a registered partnership has entered Finland, why could it not have been made even if it was a couple or a union of agreements, and so on, through such arrangements, all the other arrangements needed to be made and could have been maintained as a special unit between a man and a woman. Somehow, which has made me sad, however, when I listen to the debate, it is a feeling of respect for those of us who feel that this marriage is a special unit that I do not find very much, at least. Last year and during the previous season it was said that love belongs to everyone. Of course it belongs to everyone, and as Christian Democrats in particular, we see the significance of its love much deeper. It was said at that time that anyone would be affected if anyone could marry anyone. The fact that we are now discussing these accompanying laws is, in my view, a clear indication that this is what will do. This is about getting in the way, which destroys the institution of marriage as a whole. It is already quite clearly stated in the world among those in favour of gender-neutral marriage law and such regulations. What are the key elements of a traditional marriage? There's one man and one woman. You can't be related to it. You have to be of legal age. And in what way will marriage be made? In the presence of the Witnesses, an oath is given. Now we are giving up the key issue of just one man and one woman, that is to say, we are giving up the number. In addition to that, we are now giving up how to get there, getting married, having witnesses and giving an oath. Now we're clearly making a bypass. The only way to get married is through the notification procedure. We sign up for a number of friendship groups. Even here in Parliament, you can register for a sports club, and now you can register for marriage. True, it is far from what I have felt about marriage in my lifetime. Marriage is a central unit of the welfare society. If we think that the KD is proposing to reject the whole package, then I see it in such a way that no Member of Parliament who appreciates and respects his own work and the decisions he has taken cannot possibly support the adoption of this package. It is only a lack that no child impact assessment has been carried out; it must certainly be carried out. And what was said earlier in this Chamber was that 19,000 people have been in studies that all show that children of the same sex could at least do just as well, that is absolutely not true. On the other hand, we know that we can take research and research results and very selectively draw separate, individual issues from it and draw those conclusions. They can be very far from the truth. The best interests of the child should be paramount. The fundamental rights of the child should be a priority. The wishes or dreams of adults cannot take precedence over the best interests of the child. What can be more central to the right to a child than the right to one’s own mother and father in principle? I would like to see Members of this Parliament really stop and think about what is being done. Now we are crumbling the basics that really do work for a long time, and their effects are only slowly coming to light. There is a great deal of confusion in this legislation, as Mr Essayah mentioned earlier. Even now we have gay and lesbian couples who don't want to get married who want to stay in a registered relationship who see that marriage belongs only to men and women. In the future, the former registered partnerships will remain in force, but no new ones can be made in Finland. But you can travel abroad and enter into a registered partnership and come to Finland and are in a registered partnership here. But those in Finland cannot register here. On the other hand, those who are registered abroad cannot enter into marriage with a notice. That these issues of equality do not in any way come true. Effects on adoption: It was mentioned here that there is no data available, research results. It certainly is not, but the practice has already shown that adoptions have already become more difficult. And this is one thing that I find very heartbreaking that the dreams and hopes of many couples who have waited for years and hoped for an adoption child — now that some countries have closed their doors, no longer give adoption children to Finland — have gone much further and probably beyond reach. So in the interests of a small group of people, a great crowd will be overrun... I would say, there are thousands of married couples in Finland who suffer from infertility, and that adoption would have been the only chance for them. Belonging to a religious society: If a mother has been carrying her child for nine months and giving birth, I would now say that I am already female enough to have the right to report her child to a religious community and not to leave it in order to reach an agreement or to leave the child undeclared. A child also has a fundamental right to be part of a religious society and to receive good, valuable education there. I would hope that even those who do not share or experience personal faith in that way might see the value of our Christian cultural heritage and all the good it has brought to this country. I would say so much about trans-humans, I am talking specifically about trans-humans changing genders. And that's why I'm talking about switching because it can include someone thinking about correcting it and someone changing it in the sense that we have quite a lot — what amount is in Finland, what number is in the world, I don't know exactly — people who have changed sex lived in it for a few years and want to change back because it has not been the solution to the problems. I will talk about this with ten years of experience. The first transhumans I have met and exchanged ideas and opinions with them in 84 and also in recent years very closely followed and also in my own reception. In other words, this is much more complicated than what is being brought to the debates in this Chamber on such an average basis. In that sense, the points of singleness and infertility are also quite justified. When someone goes into that process, to exchange sex, it is a very long process, it also involves making documents, documents, and these issues of singleness and infertility are only one small part of that process. I would like to see the courage of this Parliament, the parliamentarians of this Parliament, to look at the content of this legislative package and actually stop and see what it will bring, what it will affect. Surely we can find other solutions than to be at the root of the fundamental rights of both children and married people by adopting a bad package prepared by bad legislation. So, of course, the only option is to reject this motion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u79	Madam President! Thank you both to the Government and to the Committee on Legal Affairs that this matter, which is important for Finnish civil society, has been taken forward without delay and quickly, but at the same time carefully and extensively prepared. In such difficult times, I think it is particularly important for the state to show humanity and understanding of the diversity of human life by making laws that increase equality. Family and marriage issues are the most personal. Our role as legislators is to create legislation that enables and implements equality in accordance with our Constitution. It is then up to individuals to decide whether or not to marry, regardless of who they are with. The objection to the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, drawn up by opponents of the Marriage Act, expresses widespread criticism of the process. I find it difficult to understand this criticism, because the law on marriage has been discussed for years and the political procedure has been diverse. I cannot therefore accept the opponents' argument that the preparation is weak. On the contrary, in my opinion, bad decision-making is the fact that every attempt is being made to put a brake on every detail of the reform that has already been decided upon when it comes to it. I believe that the decision that has been taken must be respected, as the Committee on Legal Affairs has now done. The same applies to the various impact assessments. They are necessary, but they must not be used as a means of paralysing decision-making, if, in fact, you do not intend to change your own position, but require assessments until there is an on-call investigator in a hole who puts forward the very negative position that the people themselves are seeking. This isn't information management. So let me repeat once again: in the area of equal marriage law, the impact has been assessed and the law has been prepared with information. When the equal marriage law was discussed on citizens' initiative, a huge number of organisations and experts took the view that marriage law is a good thing for society and individuals as equals, and this is not only the case in Finland. Not many other issues have been discussed in the recent political history of Finland in such a broad and diverse way. Mikko Kärnä, the representative of the Centre Party, said very well in the debate that there is virtually no difference between people living in the traditional family and those living in the rainbow family. The classification is within the head of some people at most. There is not always anything we can do about it, but we can do about it that the law does not practice such an unnecessary classification. Today, too, it has been argued in this Chamber that this initiative to increase equality would somehow threaten the stability of society. This is an untenable claim. Equality is a cohesive and cohesive force for societies. Unfair is what leads to problems in society. Opponents of the initiative have also criticised the fact that adoption opportunities in some countries are now under threat. We've been talking about Russian street kids. There are currently so many challenges between Finland and Russia in matters of adoption that this will certainly require a lot of work from the authorities. An equal marriage law is a drop in this sea. However, as a sovereign state, we should not abandon equality because in another country sexual and gender minorities have been turned into scapegoats for other problems in the state. Instead, we must be active in the international community so that human rights continue to progress in the world. Fortunately, small Finland is not alone in this work. Fortunately, the proposed legislative amendment takes good and practical steps. For example, I believe that turning a registered partnership into a marriage through the notification procedure makes sense not only to the individual but also to the bureaucracy and standards of society. However, the maternity law and the trans-national law, for example, still need to be corrected. The Council of Europe has also adopted a resolution on this issue, which should also be taken into account in Finland. For example, I believe that the policy of sterilisation of transgender people in Finland is a violation of human rights. There has already been a lot of discussion about these other needs for change in Parliament, and things have come up many times today. I am hopeful that at some point we will also be able to take these steps. I would also like to thank the Government and the Committee on Legal Affairs for the fact that this has already taken place. I am glad that the equal marriage law is moving forward and that this is the way it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u80	Madam President! There has been a very wide-ranging debate here, and that is a very good thing. Among other things, we have just talked about transgenderity and related issues and processes, and they are going to take a special place for a while, and many representatives here were eager to teach me about the issues in this area and, of course, humbly and gladly accept all the information. Mr Modig even dared to say publicly that he is aware that I do not understand much about this. The only thing I know about Modig is his name and his photographs, so I don't dare say anything about his life and its content. All I have to say is that in my work as a pastor, in 20 years, I have come across these things on all possible levels, both legally, spiritually and spiritually. I do not think of myself as a traveler in this area, as it were, but, unfortunately, at the heart of it. I myself see that, in terms of legislation, we have a lot of work to do to help them. Then I would like to draw attention to one further point relating to the obligation to give priority to the best interests of the child in the legislative procedure. Article 3(1) of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. the principle has been expressed that the child’s best interests must be taken into account in the decision-making process. "In all the activities of public or private social services, courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies dealing with children, attention should be paid primarily In June 2011, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child called on Finland to take due account of the best interests of the child, including in the legislative procedure. The Government Programme of Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen of 22 June 2011 included an increase in the assessment of the impact of children in all decision-making activities on the welfare of families, children and young people. In 2013, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child published a 20-page general comment on this Article 3.1. Its aim is to ensure that States Parties apply and respect the best interests of the child. The general comment defines what is necessary for the proper consideration of the best interests of the child, including a word-by-word review of the legal meaning of the text of the article. Ladies and gentlemen! When we call for a very large and important point to be made here about the impact on children, it is not rhetoric, it is the obligation that we have and it extends not only to this legislative project but to everything that is being done here. That is why it seems amazing that when in so many other matters the left and the Greens, in particular, are calling for these rights, then in these matters of one genre they can always be ignored and said that 'no, it has not been done'. I don't think this is an honest business. I hope that, over the next three years, there will probably be more and more of these accompanying laws, more and more, and they will be supplemented and patched up and tried to move forward and change that and that, in this sense, there could then be such a change that these UN recommendations, even the comments that have been made to Finland, will genuinely be taken into account that these effects on children will come to the fore. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u81	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! At this stage of the debate, we had a lot of discussion about the different aspects that each of us has seen, where such a change in the marriage law will lead, and I would like to make a few observations about it. Referring to Mr Kärnä’s observation and research results from the United States, children growing up in a rainbow family are in no way different from children raised in heterogeneous families, and when referring to this study, he said that this same thing would mean that in Finland the possibility of adoption for same-sex couples would not lead to any change in the development and growth of children. However, I did not find it on Google when I applied for this study, but on Google I found a few other studies. For example: There was a good article on the website of the Genuine Marriage Association, where sociologist Paul Sullivans himself has conducted a study based on a comprehensive national health survey with several research materials. There are such observations that this idea of a starting point is that children who grow up with married mothers and fathers are the best. This is the most important thing about these matters. These studies have been carried out for decades, and so have other studies, such as the adoption of same-sex couples, not yet been carried out. In this study referred to by Sullins, 512 children of the same sex were analysed and picked up from a group of 207,000 respondents. This study has been carried out between 1997 and 2013 and, on the basis of this study, it is not so obvious — there are several criteria here — that when a child grows up, for example in a rainbow family, there are different things that cannot be gained in a heterosexual family. I am not going to mention them here, but everyone can get to grips with these results, because I do not want to go into the debate now. Another thing, which I found very good, was the study by Professor Robert Oscar Lopez of California State University, in which he mentions it himself in 2013, because I think this was a good observation: "Professor Robert Oscar Lopez, who himself grew up in the home of two loving lesbian parents, criticizes the gender-neutral marriage law because it normalizes a situation in which a child has to grow up without a father and mother. Of course, there are many situations where there are no alternatives and the child has to grow up without a parent. But according to Lopez, it is “the abuse of a child” to make a child consciously and deliberately fatherless and motherless because adults want a child for themselves and consider themselves entitled to a child. According to Lopez, it is child abuse to expect that a child will not suffer the loss of his mother or father, even though he has been separated from at least one or perhaps both of his biological parents — not because it was necessary, but because two adults require such an arrangement. - Lopez criticises that children are considered to be a product that adults are entitled to acquire." There are very many of these examples when you start digging from different sources, and this is where I want to describe the fact that we are, however, dealing with a serious matter when we begin to define what kind of family is good for a child and what is not. I understand that no one in this Chamber has said that two parents of the same sex cannot raise children, let alone that single - parent families in one family cannot succeed in raising a child. This is not a question; it is a question of the fact that, if Parliament is seeking the best possible result in raising a child, as is customary in the case of adoption, I think it is rather sloppy to ignore the statement that a parent family for a child is still not the best option and should be granted to all children. Well, I don't think we can all agree on this, but this was the wire version. Mr President! I would also like to return to these effects of the amendment of the marriage law, which will inevitably also be faced with religious communities. As I have already mentioned, it took only six months in Sweden for the Swedish Church to decide to marry same-sex couples after this amendment of the marriage law. We know exactly, the decision-makers are sitting here, that since the church has the right to levy taxes, no one will look with good eyes at the fact that the church is allowed to raise funds and taxes if it does not work as expected and required by Finnish law on this issue of marriage. Not only does this apply to the Lutheran Church, but there are other churches where this right of marriage exists. Well, it may lead to the church or religious community either giving up the right to marry or they will accept the tooth bite of this proposal, which is already under pressure. Secondly, this will affect freedom of expression. No longer will one come out of the congregation’s booth to proclaim God’s Word as written or as the pastor or evangelist or minister believes it himself. There will also be hate crime charges and various measures to restrict freedom of expression against these persons who will then dare to speak according to their conscience and the word taught and learned. Thus, Christianity’s view of the uniqueness of marriage between man and woman will crumble in this society. This is an inevitable fact. This has already been seen in several other countries where similar events and developments have taken place. Mr President! To this end, I would like to raise one more point of view. For once, the opposition has been very grateful to the government for bringing forward such legislative proposals, and it has now been praised above all for bringing to an end the will of the previous Parliament. I do not think it would be a shame in any way if this government had taken its own course and direction on this issue of marriage law. The Prime Minister has been commended for sticking to what the previous Parliament has decided with regard to the amendment of this marriage law. I believe, however, that this simply means that our Prime Minister does not want to use the power created and conferred upon him to direct the government in a way that is in accordance with his values. Unfortunately, this has been the case with Esau, who sold his birthright from one of the rock plates. The glory of men has become more important than the values learned and the books from which the values have been built along life. In that sense, this is also a matter of conscience and also of religion, because we people have values on different bases and we cannot ignore those values by shrugging, as is now happening here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u82	Mr President! I, too, would like to begin by thanking the Committee on Legal Affairs for dealing with these legislative changes and, in particular, for the fact that, when we are still dealing with the law that has been created on the basis of the citizens' initiative, we have respected the result of the vote that the last Parliament took, and now we want to enforce this law and take into account the other legislative changes that arose from the adoption of this equal marriage. This debate has highlighted the lack of adequate impact assessments in relation to this law, and it has been argued, among other things, that this impact assessment on children has not been carried out. And as has been said, the child representative has also called for it, but of course it is worth remembering that the child representative has specifically supported an equal marriage and has seen it for the benefit of the child and that the child has a family and can experience that family as valuable as any family of any kind. The opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs has highlighted a number of shortcomings which are now unresolved and which have been mentioned a great deal here today. The second is the issue of the transfiguration, which concerns the strengthening of gender and the fact that our legislation now requires that, when this reinforcement is made, sterilisation be carried out. This has also been criticised by the international human rights bodies in Finland, and I hope that Parliament will have the courage to intervene and to remedy this problem. Another issue that has arisen is our Fertility Treatment Act, which does not allow for fertility treatment for a female couple as a couple, even though they may be married in the future. If this treatment results in the birth of a child, this child has only one legal parent, although in reality there are two parents. It is clear that, in order to improve the status of a child and make it equal, this law should be amended so that both parents will also be legal parents in the future. This bill does not propose that partnerships registered abroad can only be converted into marriage by means of a notification procedure, such as those registered in the home country. I would have liked to have included relations registered here, particularly in other Nordic countries, in this notification procedure. This would have been in line with what we are already trying to harmonise Nordic practices and increase Nordic cooperation. But all in all, I am very pleased that an equal marriage is now progressing and that the accompanying laws relating to it are being enforced at the same time as an equal marriage will enter into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u83	Madam President! It's just a strange country, this country of Finland. We are talking about the citizens' initiative, and it will not be long — in the latter part of the year — when this Parliament voted down the citizens' initiative that I myself initiated, which called for the right to respect one another's life to such an extent that there is no need to take part in ending another's life in a negative way, contrary to its convictions. That is not what this Parliament gave the right to do in Finland, unlike in almost all other European countries. But now, with this citizens' initiative, we are about to accept that the child is being deprived of the primary right to his or her own father and mother. After all, this citizens’ initiative is creating a child’s normal state of fatherlessness or motherlessness, the fact that the child is raising two women or two men. So the child’s normal state is defined as the absence of one of his or her own parents. If we think of children who are going into adoption or are going into adoption — either way we think of it — they have lost their own parents, have been separated from their own parents for a reason or another, and now the possibility that all these children who are being adopted could have such a new experience both from father and mother will be taken away. I would think that a child who has already been destined for losing his own father and mother should be admitted to a family with both an adoptive father and an adoptive mother, both a man and a woman, caring for the child and helping him to grow up and develop. Throughout the decades and, I would say, throughout the centuries, the various psychological schools, as many different opinions as they have had, have been quite, quite unanimous on one thing: normal growth and development of a child, good growth and development of a child, both male and female. Now, of course, there is no point in raising the fact that there are bad mothers, there are bad fathers, there are alcohol problems, there are drug problems, and so on — if we think of normal life and feeling, then the good growth and development of a child is a model for both mother and father. What are we in the Finnish Parliament taking away from our children and grandchildren? I have the feeling that we in Parliament really do not understand — and the Finnish people who support these changes do not understand — what we are about to give in to. As far as the transfiguration is concerned, I would also like my children and grandchildren to live in a country where the mother is a woman and the father is still a man, and not in the future with an increasing number of citizens who are registered as men but who are about to give birth. When there is a certain fundamental order, let me say, the order of creation in which certain things have been a good experience for millennia, I think it would be worth considering what it is worth to keep, what it is good to hold on to. I would see that one thing is that the mother is still a woman and the father is a man. Otherwise, many groups of people, I would say, each one of us, have many — surely we have very few people who could say that they are so whole, completely invulnerable in their lives that there is no need for treatment. We have a lot of such foster behavior, a lot of things in this society. I would hope that, when we make these decisions, we can stop and think, do not make decisions, as we have done last year and in previous years, on the basis of feelings. That is one thing that has surprised me in a certain way in this Parliament, that, rather than being based on knowledge or research, or even the good experience of decades or centuries, even in this Chamber, representatives have made and make a lot of decisions about their own pain points, their own history of life and the unpleasant memories associated with them. We are facing serious issues. I would hope that the interests of children will in any case prevail, not the wishes and desires of women, not men, not adults. And if we have room for will, if we have the right attitude and good will, then we can find solutions in this Chamber that are good and respect everyone, both those who are in favour of traditional marriage and those who are registered with both gay and lesbian couples, as I myself have said about marriage or union. We would have different options, which would also raise the issue of children's rights and take care of them. I would like this House, as Members of Parliament, to have the courage to make good, lasting, long-term good decisions for all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u84	Mr President! I am a little puzzled by this urgent draft law. At least the fact that a marriage can be entered into by means of a notification procedure is a clear flaw and a gap. Many others have also been raised in the debate. The basic argument that a gender-neutral marriage does not affect the lives of others other than these marriages is at least not true. That affects a lot of laws, as has been said here. This is precisely where the opposition is accusing itself of taking forward laws that do not fit their ideology. That's when there's a lack of clarification. Now, without any further clarification or incomplete clarifications, it is appropriate when it is compatible with ideology, this law, which is being taken forward. The same applies to citizens' initiatives. You don't see a problem when it fits your own ideology. This is a matter of hypocrisy and power play. Are we now deliberately making weak legislation? Mr President! It would have been best if the new citizens' initiative on genuine marriage had been dealt with before the preparation of these accompanying laws and had been put in place for time and energy. I do not think it is so much a religious matter. Yes, a marriage institution much older than Christianity would have earned it. It is good, however, that these laws will not come into force until about a year later when we have had time to deal with the new citizens' initiative in this Chamber. So the decision has not yet been taken, and this Parliament has the opportunity to consider the matter from its own point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u85	Madam President! This initiative has long been under discussion during the last parliamentary term and has now been extended during this parliamentary term. In the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we paid particular attention to the fact that no amendment to the Fertility Treatment Act is proposed in the draft law which would allow a married couple of the same sex to receive fertility treatments as a couple. According to the legislation in force, only one spouse can obtain fertility treatments for female couples as a self-employed woman. We noted that this state of affairs is not ideal for equality reasons and that it is not in the best interests of the child. We also, as a committee, hoped that these changes to the Fertility Care Act will be assessed in the future, paying particular attention to issues relating to parenthood and the status of the child. In addition, as a committee, we paid particular attention to the requirement for reproductive disability in the Act on the strengthening of transsexual sex, on which Finland has received comments from international human rights bodies. As a committee, we stated that this is not related to the amendment of the law on marriage and therefore it is not possible to implement it in the context of the proposal before us. At the same time, however, we felt that, in the light of the report it received, an overall review of the need to amend the Act on the Establishment of Transsexual Sex was appropriate. We have numerous studies that the most important thing for a child is that he has one adult, a loving parent, at least one, regardless of sex. I was horrified by what Mr Tanus said about the need for a mother and father to grow up decent citizens. I myself have lost my mother as a young child, and my father has raised me, and I think I have become a decent citizen. I can say that despite this, I have had a good child's development. I do give sympathy to all the children who have experienced this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u86	Madam President! I would like to make a few comments on the previous speech, Mr Ojala-Niemela. This was a bit like what Mikkonen said earlier, so you can hear a lot from the left. So here are two things we are talking about: fertility treatment and transsexual sterilization. These two issues are of concern to a very large number of people here. Let's just take this as a common sense first of this transsexual sterilization, which is the current state of affairs. I understand if I have understood correctly when talking about gender correction surgery, it is a matter of correction. So that's where the person gets medical help to turn the body into the man or woman he feels he is. Well, I'm sure we all understand that this is the initial situation. Now, if it is a repair operation that society pays for, should not the characteristics of one sex be the determining factor? Why should society still accept that a person who wants to repair himself, for example, from a woman to a man, should also be allowed to give birth as a man if he wants to? What is the basis for this requirement? If a person is repaired, does that not mean that a man does not give birth and a woman does not? I believe that this is such a simple logic, which has become blurred in this decision-making process, that it makes black white and white black, if that is what it feels like. Second, the debate on this fertility treatment. This is intended specifically for straight couples, mainly those who do not normally have a child when they are growing up. That is the starting point, at least. I understand that we will then begin to demand that two women, for example, be admitted to fertility care to give them a child, and this is justified by the fact that these parents want that child. However, I believe that the basic question is whether children are for adults or whether adults are for children. The natural way to have children is to interact between a man and a woman, and this kind of natural way for himself at least for this common sense thinking I would like to respect and respect. In society, we cannot give everyone what people want. Such legislation cannot be made in any country or in any parliament. We have to restrict someone's rights in every way. I'm sorry, but it's true. But here we have recently, in the last parliamentary term in particular, the fact that everyone, if they love or want to. In a word you have not said today that if love is a definition measure for getting married, how many people are allowed to marry. That is what we know, this has been on the Greens' agenda for a long time, it has been driven by the Greens for years, and I think it will be green as the next card, which will be put on the table. However, I believe in this kind of basic value in Finnish society. If our constitution is built on Christian values and usually on a normal human concept and this kind of caring for others, then it cannot be used as a weapon against those who do not want to change it. After all, many of us are accused of being old-fashioned or of not accepting human dignity for all people or equality. Unfortunately, the legislation is such that we did the law like the law, so it limits people's rights. That we can talk about the fact that all we have is mandatory laws in this house. But, Mr President, it is a good thing that we have had a moderate debate here, that we are bringing our own arguments, our own perspectives. But what worries me most about this legislation is not so much the fact that the institution of marriage is changing, which is an institution that is thousands of years old and is always understood, regardless of society, as a marriage between man and woman, that is not so much my main concern, but why we included in this amendment to this adoption law, or, in fact, this marriage law, which allows this adoption. This could've been left out just fine. I know that many of you agree, even if they do not say so. This is what's stone in my shoe, especially. I do not approve of knowingly taking one parent away from the child. I have personal experience of it, as well as Ojala-Niemelä, and I, at least for my part, missed my own father when I was deprived of it. And sometimes they took away their own mother when I lived in a children's home. It does not matter what kind of family a child grows up in. A child must have the right to a father and mother if that situation requires society to be guided by new parents in that adoption.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u87	Mr President! Today we are dealing with important social changes, amendments to the accompanying laws of the Marriage Act. In my opinion, these amendments to the law are important, they are necessary. I also have to begin by saying, when I myself sit in the Committee on Legal Affairs, that the committee did a very good job of giving this report to Parliament and it has paid attention to important issues in it. Perhaps to Mr Tanus and Mr Niiko at the outset, it must be said that I myself have grown up in a rainbow family and I can assure you that even in such families, with two parents of the same sex, children have the full opportunity to grow up in a good environment, to have loving parents, good care, care, a safe environment for growth. It is an extremely important and wonderful thing that we are now finally correcting points in legislation that have placed families and children in an unequal position with each other. This is a very good and necessary reform, especially for children in families. It is wonderful that society finally recognises such families and children as equal to other families. These accompanying laws are now before Parliament, these are necessary. The committee itself did not have any objections to the government's proposal in this regard, but the committee did raise a number of issues in its own report, which, after all, will remain in our legislation. The most important observations relate, for example, to the position of transgender people in Finland. Now, with these legislative changes, the requirement of singleness is removed, but we still have one key human rights problem in the transfiguration, the requirement of sterilisation, the requirement of infertility for people who confirm their new corrected gender. This is a major human rights problem. Many international human rights bodies have expressed their views on this and have drawn attention and called for Finland to correct its own legislation in this regard. It has been quite a long time since, for example, we have banned the reproduction of people with disabilities. This distinction has long since been lifted. We have exactly one group of people who are no longer required to be infertile, and that is the people who are strengthening their gender when the sex has been corrected. This is a major problem, and this requires, as the report states, a larger reform of trans-national legislation. At the same time, it would, of course, be good if the whole law were corrected to be sustainable from the point of view of self-determination. Another key point to which the committee drew attention, as Mr Ojala-Nieme, for example, raised in his own speech here, is the lack of care for the women who cannot be treated as a couple, but only one party can. This leads to situations, including, in the worst case, that if the parent who gives birth dies in childbirth, then the child will legally have no other parent, i.e. those of the same sex will have to go through such a long internal adoption process. This is a major flaw and this should be corrected. There's a chance. Already in the last period 2014-2015, the Ministry of Justice has submitted a proposal for a new maternity law. This could be brought to the attention of Parliament. This bill is ready, and it would correct this inadequacy, which means that we have the full means to do so when the government simply brings a proposal for this to Parliament. The citizens' initiative, which has been signed by more than 12,000 people, is also currently under way, and civil society also draws attention to this problem and wants to remedy it. In addition, the committee also draws attention to some of the other shortcomings that remain in our legislation after these accompanying laws, but these can then be corrected in other legislative discussions, in particular in the work of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, so that these too can still be amended. But all in all, apart from this equal marriage law, which was already adopted in the previous period, these accompanying laws are now very much to be welcomed. When these finally arrive at Parliament's deliberations, we will take another major step forward in Finland's implementation of human rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u88	Madam President! I would like the representatives of Ojala-Niemelä and Marin to correct that in no way in my speech was it meant to say that one parent or two different breeders or of the same sex, or that we also have a lot of those in the children's home and in many other communities — if there is a safe, loving environment, then of course you can grow up and grow up quite fine women and men, just as we have great examples around you. But the fact is that half of us are mother, half of us are father, no matter what kind of environment we grow up in and raised by breeders. The fact is, too, that we have a lot of them in society, even in Finland, including those of age — I myself meet more women than men in my work — who regret the father in such a case that he has not had his own father, and even in a case where he may be a foster father or adoptive father. When your father's gone, that father's longing, and my father's trouble, it's a terrible thing even when he's 60, 70, 85. I do not know whether the studies, at what stage and in what way this genetic system of ours, affects us, but especially that of the father is a great deal, and that is why I hope that what has already been mentioned here in the beginning of the evening is that we do not in principle make it normal for a child to be absent from its own father or mother or a primary opportunity to do so. With regard to transhumans, as I said earlier, since the mid-80s I have experience with them and, as I said, I would hope that in this country the mother will continue to be a woman and the father will continue to be a man. Children can be made and this group can also make children earlier. If we think about trans-human sex change, today the law allows them to be started when adulthood comes, even though there is research, for example, that brain development continues until the age of 25, and we have a number of examples of trans-humans who have gone through sex change and in a few years' time want to go back or that the problems have not been solved. In that sense, these things are much, much more diverse in many ways and involve much deeper longings, and many far more profound problems with childhood, perhaps even from pregnancy, — not all of them, historics can be very different, but in that sense I would like to hope that these things will be stopped, as if from more than just a certain point of view, to look deeper than a certain person’s desire or desire, at least so that we do not contribute to making decisions that turn out to be bad for the person himself or bring difficulties. What I would also like to raise in connection with this legislative package is freedom of speech and religion. Minorities, both gay and lesbian couples, registered partners or persons pursuing gender-neutral marriage laws have gained much of their voice both in the media and in the press, in these various events. I would argue, at least for myself, that I had never encountered so much before the entry into force of the gender-neutral marriage law, well, let me say what else, as after the adoption of the gender-neutral marriage law, in situations where I try to argue and defend traditional marriage. My own view is that if a traditional marriage between a man and a woman had been kept separate and then as if it were its own line, whether it was a couple or a contract union — Mr Marin was not in the Chamber at the time when it was discussed — I would see that these many, many messy accompanying laws would have been avoided. Much simpler could have been to ensure the rights of separate groups of people, equality, equality and also the rights of children. It seems that this freedom of expression and religion, as has already been the case in many situations, has already been limited. Minorities can briskly say their own opinions, but those in favour of traditional values — let's see who can start raising what issues. I have already been asked whether it should not be raised in this House that, if there is a minority councilman who looks at minority issues in particular, should not be set up, I do not know what representative it would be by its name, who would take care of the rights of people who respect traditional values, so that they would not be violated and crushed, because in fact this confrontation has become such that I would never have thought that Finland would run into it. It's already raised its head, and it feels like it's just the first mention. As far as the entry into force of these accompanying laws is concerned, if anyone claims that it does not change anything in our society, it will change very much and, among other things, wreck marriage as an institution. We are already coming up with a number of initiatives to change the number. On what basis do we deny marriage to those who want that marriage to include three or four or five? Or what is the basis for refusing to be married to a relative or minor, as is the case in some lands? So we are on our way to the crumbling of all fundamental elements of marriage, and, as I said earlier, it is already widely acknowledged in the world that one of the purposes of this movement is that marriage as an institution disappears. It then has different relationships, different relationships, different educational and other arrangements. I know that in this Chamber everyone has one vote and everyone is responsible for what to vote for. I would like to see solutions found that in this kingdom it would be good for all to live in the future, including our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u89	Mr President! This issue has been discussed in this Chamber both during the last period and this period. And this conversation, these arguments are not new. But perhaps to Mr Tanus I would like to say my own view of these traditional Finnish values. For me, traditional Finnish values are equality, equality and human rights, equal rights, human rights. These are traditional Finnish values that we must uphold, which we must respect, which we must also take into account in our legislation. And that is why, from this point of view too, it is very important that we now finally correct these human rights problems that we have had in our legislation. For everything, these changes in the law do not reach. After that, we will still have major problems that we will have to deal with, which we will then have to deal with at other stages of drafting the law. But perhaps, finally, I would like to dispel this threat, as it were, which is what we want to form here, in fact, it has always been intended to form, as if it were now changing, as if it were now breaking down a traditional concept of marriage, an institution or other. In my opinion, these legislative changes and the equal marriage law, which has already been adopted in the past, only recognise the reality in which people are already living. People live in a variety of families, a variety of families, there are all kinds of people, there are different couples, there are different families. And it is a matter of enormous importance that legislation takes account of and recognises these different families, different people, different relationships as being equal to each other. This is the core question we are now faced with. Through this we are not creating any significant change, because this change has already taken place in society. Now we are simply changing our legislation to reflect the structure that already exists in our society. And here, at the same time, we are correcting our legislation specifically in the direction of respect for human rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u90	Madam President! I was not going to take the floor, but Mr Tanus came to the point that we have to say a few words in the meantime too. Firstly, it must be remembered that, as I am sure this Chamber has discussed today, this is an update of the law. And I must say that the committee has had very good comments on this. That's the fact. Now we are updating the law, which we hope will come into force. It would also be important to recognise the facts here in Parliament, so that we can really get on with these things and not constantly keep saying and holding back and going back to that same debate. In fact, you said that these people have made their voices heard too well. That voice has been silent for too long. Fortunately, it has become known and, fortunately, it is known to all of us. In this regard, Mr Marin well described family views. Everyone has their own idea of it. Today, too, we have heard what kind of families we have here in Finland. They're happy families. I would be more concerned that the child does not have caring adults around and does not have the love the child needs around him. And, in fact, the definition of a family: you, Mrs Tanus, define it or I, are not correct, but each family has its own definition of the family. In fact, perhaps I will come back to this debate on how we keep coming back to this same debate. This is a very humiliating discussion — you talked about feelings and how important it is to listen to people’s feelings and feelings — also for these families and for these people who are going through very difficult things. We keep coming back to these same problems and, as it were, bringing them to the fram about how they have failed and how they are different people, the wrong people and the wrong families. This has got to change for real. I hope that this will now be taken seriously and true and accept the fact that this law will come into force. It is the right of Finland and it is the privilege of these people, which has been in silence for too long.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u91	Madam President! To Mr Razmyar, I would like to say that I did not in any way define that there would be only one kind of family. And I did not in any way mean that anyone should be looked at as if with contempt or that he has failed or so on. It was, however, that the traditional marriage, between man and woman, the only place where a child might possibly have a chance to grow up with his own father and mother, is special. And that we would not in principle make fatherlessness and motherlessness a normal condition for children. But the fact, of course, is that we have different families in society. Every human being is worth a lot of money. Every child is worth a lot of money. Every woman, every man is valuable. When I said that the voices of minorities have become very loud, it is good that their voices have been heard. But at the same time, I would also like us, in certain matters, such as its traditional marriage — but special and different from all other forms of relationship — to be able to make our voices heard without being despised or called names or called names or, as it were, referred to as the ancient ice age. We also have our reasons, which is why. You were not in the hall when I said that I myself wished that marriage between a man and a woman had been kept separate and that it had been accompanied by, for example, a couple or a union of agreements and legal changes along that route. I would see that much, much simpler changes would have been made then, so that equality, succession and so on would have been well enforced for everyone. It is hoped, however, that Parliament, the representatives of Parliament, will make good decisions for all in the long term. And as I said to Mr Marin: I do not want any threat pictures in any way to be painting, on the contrary. I hope that we are working together to build a society that is good for everyone to live in here. But so much experience has come from the world as to what the introduction of a gender-neutral marriage law has meant for those in favor of traditional marriage and what it has meant for freedom of speech and religion. It is no longer possible to speak out in the same way as before, particularly in favour of traditional values, in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u92	Mr President! One might say to Mr Tanus that no one is taking away your freedom of speech. Not now and certainly not with or after these legislative changes. This is perhaps a rather peculiar debate that you have included in your own speech. I understand that privileged people may feel discriminated against when things are being corrected in an equal way for those who have been in a non-privileged position. In other words, we are now moving to a situation where people are treated equally and equally only in this respect — unfortunately not in the whole world at once, but in this marriage law and these accompanying laws. It may seem to some people to be discriminated against when they are deprived of their prerogatives and, as it were, extend this situation to all, so that there is equality in this respect. But I still hope that this kind of image will not be left in any way to the top or even certain people to worry about that now in some way there would be a breakdown of some of the right to marriage, when here is precisely an extension of it so that everyone is equal. Every couple who marries is equal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u93	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report TrVM 6/2015 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 5 February 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u94	Madam President! There is indeed a special report from the National Audit Office, a report on fiscal surveillance since 2015, and, as I said on Friday, when this debate started, this report shows that these intimidations are wrong — which the Prime Minister himself, unfortunately, referred to at the Prime Minister's Question Time on 20 September 2015 — that we would almost be in the custody of the Commission. Now that this report is read, we can say that this is not the case. It is clear that a small country has to take care of the economy, the debt has to be taken seriously, but such intimidation with locusts, which was actually heard here yesterday in the opening debate of the parliament, said from the line of government parties that the whole Finnish society is under threat, so it was said that the whole Finnish society is under threat. Mr President! The only sustainable way to put public finances on a sustainable footing is to get people to work. And now we have seen that the government, both in terms of growth and employment, has failed in the objectives it has set itself. Throughout the autumn we warned that if the government does not change its line, it will be subjected to further cuts. After all, this current government programme fits the assembly. On the other hand, it has been seen that the Finns of Finland do not have the ability to change the government's line, so the focus is on the city centre. And now we have started to hear speeches from the centre, for example, Vice-President Pekkarinen called for a change in the government programme as early as December. Very little has responded to this, and when asked yesterday, no one answered. Is it really the case that Is Pekkarinen alone in this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u95	Mr Ala-Nissila, on the reply, followed by Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u96	Madam President! I heard at Parliament's cafe that Mr Lindtman is taking his troops to the Bank of Finland today and will probably hear the facts of President Liikanen. I am delighted because the facts are an important basis for political decision-making and I am sure that there will also be a fruitful debate about this debt and these criteria. Such a big picture is that the Finnish welfare society has been built on the fact that our economy is growing every year. Now, on the contrary — the previous three years when it has been reduced every year, even in previous years — you will understand that the equation is much more difficult. If our cake gets smaller, it is clear that we will not be able to secure the well-being we have had before. In this situation, we are also unable to adapt public finances very effectively. In fact, I am familiar with alternative budgets, including the alternative budget for Mr Lindtman. There's not much room for manoeuvre, you have to go like the Independence Fund cup and otherwise, in order to have some options. Yes, this big picture must be seen that when our cake gets smaller, we will not be able to secure the kind of well-being we would like, but the economy really needs to grow. We have now lived, Mr Lindtman, for a month and a half, not in the time of Mr Rinte's budget, that there has not been much time for this new government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u97	Congressman Heinäluoma... Oh, yes, a representative. Lindtman wants to answer this one more time, and then Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u98	Mr President! Indeed, it is true that we are going to the Bank of Finland, and now my question is that I stayed to ask whether those aspects which Mr Ala-Nissilä raised are widely identified within the centre and whether they are known, for example, to Vice-President Pekkarinen. If I go through it again, he really did say that the government has not really succeeded in this area of growth and employment, and that is why it now seems that the government is going through further cuts and that the last moment would be to review the government programme. And now that this is clearly in the centre's hands and, in addition to Pekkarinen, the highest decision-making body in the city centre, the party council, President Ovaska also took a stand and said that there is no lasting welfare in surgery policy and the administrative structure, I would now like to hear, for example, the position of the central centre economic thinker Olavi Ala-Nissilä on whether or not the government programme now needs to be changed in the spending limits debate in a more employment-friendly direction. This was left open yesterday and there was no answer. We should now have an answer to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u99	Mr President! On Friday there was a very lively, good debate. It focused strongly on current economic policy and less on this report by the Committee on Audit and on this aspect of fiscal surveillance. I would have liked to have taken part in this topical debate on economic policy myself, but I thought that the role of the rapporteur as chairman of the committee might force us to stay more on committee matters and then this timely economic policy can come to the debate in other contexts. However, on Friday, I raised an issue which was recently the subject of a follow-up debate, and I would therefore like to return to it. It concerns the narrowing of Parliament's budget, a phenomenon that has been the subject of greater concern every year. Several reports by the Committee on Finance have drawn attention to the fact that Parliament's budgetary power, and hence the direct influence of the Finnish electorate, through its representatives, on the budget, is being reduced, and this is accompanied by a number of accompanying factors. One is that the budget has become more general in nature. The budget has been compiled, the decision-making of the agencies has increased in this respect, and the decision-making powers of officials in financial matters have also increased. The second phenomenon is, of course, the non-Parliamentary funds, which are also taking decisions in isolation from what is being decided here. But then there is the third phenomenon, which is perhaps the most significant of these, and that is the fact that, through EU decision-making, regions have emerged which are very complex at the end of a chain so that Parliament can decide on them. I said at the time that the Audit Committee was making a report on this and, in a way, responds to this challenge raised by previous parliaments. We will now look at what these changes have been over the years and, of course, we will also have to consider what could be done in this area. However, there is one thing that deserves particular attention, and it concerns the stability mechanisms of the euro area and their functioning. After all, very large sums of money are being spent there, where the Finnish State, and therefore the Finnish taxpayer, are ultimately responsible. Loan arrangements for countries in crisis are loan arrangements, and the starting point is that this money will come back, albeit not with any return, as at some point during the last parliamentary term it was suspected that this could be a profitable business. After all, it has now proved that the interest rates on loans have been brought so low that there will be no return on them for the lenders. But there are responsibilities and, of course, they are always in the debate with Greece that the situation is such that Greece is unable to pay all its loans. In this context, Greece has regularly proposed debt restructuring and also debt capital cuts, i.e. liability remains. The question then arises that when money is given to Greece, for example, it is at risk, where there is the possibility that the money will disappear from the decision-making process of the Finnish Parliament and the democracy, and the loan that is supposed to come back will not come back but will turn into a grant. In the last period, a decision was taken whereby these support programmes, which are granted by this European Stability Mechanism, the Crisis Fund, the ESM, no longer need to be brought into this large Chamber. I think that it would be justified to have a debate without a government-opposition approach as to whether this line adopted over the last period, which was not much discussed, is the right one. In the past, we had these programmes coming into the big hall, and they were the subject of quite a public debate, and thus also control over what the government did and how Finland behaved in the decision-making process of the European Union and the Eurogroup was remarkably strict. After all, the Germans went the other way. During the last parliamentary term in Finland, they learned from this old system of ours. The long demand of the German Parliament was that Parliament should have a stronger say in the use of money in these support programmes, and the German Bundestag there pushed through the change through which the German Government must bring these programmes to Parliament as a whole. Now, of course, you can ask whether we went in the wrong direction. This is not a party-political position at the moment, nor is it related to who made the decision and who put it, but to a genuine, sincere question as to whether this issue should be reconsidered so that the whole Chamber can take a stand on such amounts as EUR 1 billion in Finland's responsibilities. And as we have seen in this debate on Greece, it is not just a question of whether we have a guarantee on a loan, but a guarantee that can be genuinely realised when it is known that Greece, for example, has asked for the debt capital to be cut. The official argument here is that this would not increase the risk, since it is operating within its current capital of the ESM. But, of course, when money is given from there — and money is given to the states that have indicated that their ability to pay is questionable in terms of repayment, which have hoped for a debt capital cut — there is, of course, an increase in the risk, even if the capital is not raised. Let us use the amount of the loan that is possible within the current capital framework, bring it closer to the ceiling, and then, of course, at some point, there may be a situation where capital increases are also required, and then there may be a situation where these guarantees are realised, which means that Finland may also have to pay more if debt capital cuts are made. That is why I think it would be justified for Parliament to hold an open debate on this. I would like this to be of interest to Members of Parliament, and I am sure that this will be of interest to Finnish taxpayers and citizens. This could well happen now that there is no current package on the table, apart from the fact that this will have an impact on some current situation, more as a matter of principle, that it is wiser to take the line we had before, that is to say, that we need the approval of all the representatives of the great Chamber of Parliament for such large amounts of money, the responsibilities of EUR 1 billion, as has now been seen in this case in Greece, and the same line that has been followed by the German Bundestag, that is, that Parliament as a whole is involved. I hope that this debate will not be left alone in this report by the Financial Supervisory Authority, but could take place both today and in the future and this reflection would be carried out in a broad sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u100	Madam President! Mr Heinäluoma's excellent speech can be supplemented; it does not need to be corrected. I will do so as the vice-president of the committee. Indeed, the committee is conducting a study on Parliament's budgetary and supervisory powers. In fact, in a democracy, if its budgetary control is reduced, then its control power must increase. This must also be an ideology behind the creation of the Parliamentary Audit Committee, and this is the challenge of using the euro area-related subsidies. It is also very timely that Nordea is moving away from Finland — a Finnish company. We can ask how it will then be monitored in the future. It is true that when public money is spent — you, I or Henttu Alice’s money — there must always be three things: accountability, accounting, and then transparency and public scrutiny. These are important safeguards, and in that sense I believe that this work launched by the Audit Committee will be:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u101	Madam President! I have an actual speech to make, but in my reply I would like to say so much in the role of an alternate in the Committee on Audit that I think this speech by the President was wise. Attention should be paid to Parliament's budgetary powers and these support packages. The committee is doing valuable work. I also welcome the fact that the vice-chairman of the committee has just spoken. I think this is an indication that Parliament is awake to what it would be good for us to be aware of today. In this respect, from the point of view of the alternate, this was an excellent debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u102	Mr President! I thank you for these comments and I therefore believe that the debate will continue. This ex post control — just as the Vice-President, Mr Ala-Nissilä, said — is of great importance when it is not detailed in terms of actual spending. However, with regard to these EU aid packages, this ex post control is plus minus zero, i.e. if the debt capital cuts are made, then it is pointless to go to Greece or anywhere else to find out where the money went — where it went — and then there is not much to draw conclusions or to ask questions about these accountabilitys either. It is also related to the fact that it is justified that decisions of the billion-dollar category should be kept in this Chamber by the whole of Parliament. Then they will be carefully illuminated, and on very light grounds there will be no decisions. The current procedure, in which Finland consents to these programmes and can only take place in the case of a large committee and one committee, is quite easy to take through the commitments of billions of euros.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u103	Madam President! Finally, on this subject: it is indeed the case that these responsibilities are enormous and then also the additional risks posed by these decisions taken through the ESM. That is why I think it is very well founded that we are having cross-party discussions here about precisely what the chairman of the committee said, that we should indeed go into this practice in Germany, and whenever new decisions are taken on the use of the ESM funds, it must be here in the Chamber as a whole — I think it is very well founded. It came to mind here when I began to recall this previous incident last summer that there was a big debate about Greece being given a third aid package, and that was also the case that the Finns as the Finnish Government Party were adopting this support package, Soini One was then made, despite the fact that, for example, Timo The Soin party before the elections had said, in its most recent and most important election promise, that there will no longer be any aid packages in Greece. This was a really big thing this summer, what happened here with Soini One. Greece three is Soini one, for example, in reality we have — if I now put the cat on the table and say how things were then in the summer. And it occurred to me that what would have happened if, for example, this package had been in the Chamber, as I thought it would have been good to have been in the summer, i.e. if it had even gone through here. Now there is a feeling that quite a lot of big decisions were taken by just one committee. So this is something to think about, and I very much hope that this debate will continue, and I hope that we will be able to change our practice in the future. But, Mr President, with reference to this Friday's debate: This debate began at the time, and we talked about, among other things, the Council's report which said that the impact on employment in the government was too optimistic with regard to the coercive legislation packages, and took the view that the policy of cutting is problematic, for example in terms of growth. And the committee, in its unanimous report, also said very well, in my opinion, that the very key issue of growth is employment, and this became quite clear, and it also confirmed the concern which the SDP has expressed in its own options that the government lacks any action to promote employment here and now. In my opinion, when it comes to employment, it also involves purchasing power in a very essential way. And, of course, it is not wise for the purchasing power of the government to make a rather drastic policy of cutting off the unemployed, pensioners, families with children, many low incomes, and that is a difficult issue from this point of view. Purchasing power is also absolutely essential for taxation and for pensioners, and that is why I would now like to return to this question, which we have sometimes covered quite diligently in this Chamber, that is to say, the government's line on the taxation of pensioners. It happened that, at the beginning of this year, by the decision of this government, by the presentation of the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, the taxation of pensioners was unequaled with regard to employees. And it is quite extraordinary — what is the reason for it? — that the government does not also want to ensure that the taxation of pensioners and the purchasing power of pensioners is balanced. That is the reason we do not know; we know nothing but vague explanations from the coalition party as to why this big election vow was betrayed. But when we are all aware of this history, these numerous questions, which the Social Democrats have raised in the face of this unfair solution, I was very surprised when today I saw the announcement sent by the representatives of Lauslahti and Sarkomaa — they are not in this Chamber, I would certainly like them to be — which said that, in future, we will have to correct this injustice in the taxation of pensioners. They said that this would require hard work to be done, and that perhaps in future reforms the reduction in pension income will also need to be corrected. I cannot understand why, then, later on, we will have to take specific measures to ensure that the same duo has been in the process of adopting the very line of government: when we voted a few times in December on this matter, this injustice came into force. This is a very important matter, Mr President, and that is why I will continue to say that, in this case, this tax gap will remain permanent. What will it do, then, if there are possible tax reductions, to reduce the balance, now that we are drinking? And I am looking, for example, at the representative of the government party present here, and I hope that the government will return to this issue as well, because it is quite clear that we will not stop this debate until the government corrects this mistake, which I believe is not only humanly wrong, but also contrary to all the promises made in the run-up to the elections, but also from an economic point of view, because it would, of course, make sense to take care of the purchasing power of small and medium-income pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u105	Madam President! When we deal with the report on the fiscal audit, I think it is appropriate to address this indebtedness, which is what is being discussed a lot here in Parliament. It is true that Finland's total debt is not yet at alarming borders in European comparisons. What is alarming is this increase in debt in Finnish conditions, and this also refers to our Finnish demographic structure. We have an increasing proportion of the ageing population as the majority of us in the large age groups have retired and then the birth rate in Finland has also decreased. I do not think it is populist to count Finland’s annual debt per child born. It’s about under 100,000 euros, and if we donate such a bond with each maternity pack, in a way, it’s far too much. This rate of indebtedness is far too fast and it is therefore good that the government has taken this problem seriously in its strategic government programme. But then another dangerous problem associated with this is this indebtedness in the world. Recently, William White, chairman of the OECD Audit Committee, worked in Basel, Switzerland as a central banker, spoke rather harshly about world debt. He liked that it was getting to be at the alarming border. After all, there is a general perception that when the financial crisis started in 2007-2008 indebtedness in the world decreased. No, it's not. If we talk about total debt, i.e. both public debt and private debt, indebtedness will continue to increase. Since 2007, for example, it has grown four times as fast in China. Seeing that there is a certain anxiety in China may be related to this very phenomenon. Also, if we take the ten most important industrialised countries, they are increasingly in debt and the total debt is beginning to be 300 percent of GDP. After all, the European Central Bank conducts a very loose monetary policy. It also has exceptional financial operations. When, in due course, the President of the ECB said that the ECB would do "what ever it takes to save the euro" — anything to save the euro — of course it meant something. But I don't think it's the right thing to do. But it was an action that gave the Member States more time to put the economy in order. This is an exceptional situation, however, that in practice we have little or no interest or may even be negative and that the ECB is pumping money into the market. When I know that the leading economic policy representatives of the SDP, Viitanen and Heinäluoma, go to the Bank of Finland today, this is perhaps a topic worth raising in the survey. How long can this policy of the European Central Bank go on like this? Is it not for France and Italy to carry out the structural reforms they use to put their economy in order? If Finland is a well-exported country, then there is also Europe — Finland even more. We know that Finland rose from the previous crisis by means of an export-driven growth strategy. It is now the path from which Finland can rise. No export-driven country can, as Mr Vanhanen said here in his discussions — with Mr Heinäluoma we well know this parable — Finland cannot stand up by pulling itself out of the hair.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u108	Mr President! I agree that this debt-taking must be taken very seriously and responsibly. It is not only a question of whether economic policy is justified to revive, but also of what is Finland's status as an independent state. I consider it wise that we act in such a way that we do not become too dependent on others, and that is also what we are urged to do in history and in our position here in Northern Peru. It is therefore appropriate to take this risk seriously. Then there are other aspects. One of them is what the debt is used for. Of course, the most dangerous thing is this eating debt if it continues for a long time. Then again, if the debt is taken and spent on sound, necessary investments that will boost growth and hence employment and, in the long term, strengthen society’s ability to meet its commitments, it makes sense to spend money. It is, of course, sensible to make decisions that bring that production capacity, including people to work to support themselves and to take care of the services of society. In other words, even in this situation, it is important that these infrastructure projects should now be carried out, for example, and thus ensure that Finland is a viable and functioning society in the years to come. Then there is the additional aspect, which is that the public debate and, of course, these euro area criteria are directed towards this debt, the annual deficit and debt. They ignore what's on the other side of the balance sheet. In this respect, the countries are very different. There are countries where the state can be very strong, wealthy, it has a lot of property, it can have it in company form, it is in the form of land ownership. I looked at a recent report showing that Finland was among the three richest in the EU countries when looking at that other side of the balance sheet. So it also matters what has been done with that money in the past, when an overall assessment is made, and when I say this, I will not underestimate this amount of debt at all. Then, after all this, we'll have to put it on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u109	Chairman! There is still no need to correct, but to supplement Mr Heinäluoma's speech. When my previous mission was visited in Estonia, I think the Prime Minister of Estonia made a good speech. He said that when they live in the shadow of a great neighbor, terrible history teaches. That is why they joined NATO and the European Union. But it has never been enough for Estonia; they want to be financially independent. That is why the Estonian State has little or no government debt, or 10% of GDP. We see what is happening in Ukraine, when there is an economy on the loose, administration on the edge: it is easy to come from outside to influence. We know what happens to Finnish municipalities that are over-indebted. We don't even have the municipality of Tarvasjoki anymore, because it was over-indebted and taken away. In other words, economic independence is also one whole, which is related to the fact that, especially if you live in the shadow of a rather large neighbour, whether it be Russia or the United States, a small country must be financially independent.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u112	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report TrVM 7/2015 vp. The debate will begin and the rapporteur is Mr Ala-Nissila, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-10-ps-5.u113	Madam President! Thank you. — Indeed, as vice-chairman of the committee, I am happy to present the report of the Audit Committee on the activities of the National Audit Office in 2015. This annual report is based on the audit and expert activities of the Audit Office. The report sets out the main audit results for the audits and follow-up that have been completed by the end of August 2015 and for the audits that have been allocated to the financial year 2014. The committee has dealt with a number of issues in the report, first of all the executive capacity of the administration to use the ict to increase productivity. The Audit Committee believes that the administrative capacity to implement decisions should be strengthened. This requires, among other things, prioritisation of objectives and the development of leadership. The number of measures to be pursued is too high. In order to improve implementation capacity, it is also necessary to define how the target status is to be achieved and to ensure monitoring and evaluation of progress. The aim of improving productivity through digitalisation has long been pursued. However, according to the Audit Office, the results have remained more modest than expected. It has not always been possible to ascertain in hindsight what the objectives and expectations of the development action have been based on in terms of costs and cost and productivity benefits. At the end of last year, the Audit Committee dealt with the same issue when preparing a report on the government's annual report. The committee then stated that "to obtain the results and benefits of ict projects by government as well as ministries and agencies requires a broad range of expertise and decisive leadership. The committee believes that digitalisation offers a great opportunity to implement structural and operational reforms and to improve productivity in the public sector and also in society as a whole. At the moment, Finnish public administration does not take full advantage of the potential of digitalisation." The committee also requires better reporting on the productivity benefits and results of projects to Parliament. In committee, too, we are dealing with the theme of 'integration into society'. According to VTV, the number of people at risk of poverty and exclusion in Finland has increased. About a quarter of a million Finns live on basic social security. The risk of exclusion is particularly high for unemployed young people and some immigrants. The unemployment rate for immigrants is found to be three times higher than for the whole population. The differences between immigrant groups are large. According to the Agency, effective employment and integration measures can reduce the risk of exclusion. According to the Audit Office, the lower school performance of migrant pupils is explained by, among other things, the lower socio-economic status of the general population on average and the language spoken by the student at home. Once the underlying factors have been standardised, the differences in the level of competence are still greater in Finland than in many European countries. In particular, second-generation migrant pupils are less skilled than the native population, even after the socio-economic background has been taken into account. The Audit Committee has decided to include migration and integration issues in its work programme for this parliamentary term and will make use of the work carried out by the Audit Office and various ministries in this area. The Audit Committee proposes that Parliament should have no objections to the report.
