ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u1	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I'm asking the ministers to move to the Council of Ministers. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u2	First question, Mr Kymäläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u3	Madam President! I would like to begin this first Question Time in Parliament on everyday matters. Do you know that concerns about the future have arisen in Finnish families with children? You in the government are planning a truly significant increase in day care fees of more than 22%. I've been getting a lot of calls asking why families with children have been made to pay for by the government. In the highest payment category, this increase is more than 60 euros per month per child. You have just decided in the government to increase the fees for morning and afternoon clubs by 100%, from EUR 60 to EUR 120. So we are talking about another EUR 60 monthly increase per child. The good thing about the proposal is that the government agreed to maintain the zero-payment category, but even now the money-rich is not a question of hard-working, working, middle-income families, families of two local carers or bus drivers. In the family of two children, your intention to raise would bring an additional 120 euros to day care fees already a month. [President MariaLohela : Now to the question,Mr.Kymäläinen.]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u6	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council! The questioner raised the situation of families with children in Finland, and I would extend this discussion to a larger picture. We have Finland in a very difficult situation at the moment: we are in strong debt, we have made expenditures higher than incomes, and we have great difficulties with growth. In this difficult economic situation, the government has put in place a programme of change, in which we also have to make bad decisions to remedy this situation. The aim is to take measures to bring Finland into a sustainable career so that we can have the best possible services for families with children in the future. Unfortunately, in this change programme we also have to take action on early childhood education, and I personally find it extremely regrettable that in the government programme we also have to deal with customer fees, the fees for early childhood education. However, I would like to say that early childhood education services in Finland are of very high quality and in the future only about 15% of the costs of early childhood education will be covered by customer fees. [President MariaLohela : Time to go. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u9	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u10	Mr President! People are concerned about survival in everyday life, and this must be taken seriously, not understated. As a mother and nanny of four children, I know very well how this affects the everyday lives of families with children. I know how this reduction in financial resources affects, for example, children’s ability to engage in figure skating or hockey. It has been shown, Mr Government, that there are alternatives. The SDP's alternative budget takes less debt than yours. It's about value choices. You're applying for an income supplement of over 50 million with an increase in day care fees. There is an alternative to this, for example, in our alternative budget, the SDP proposed in November to eliminate tax planning by restricting the right of companies to deduct interest. This performance would make 60 million and would not have to be taken from families with children. Now, Minister, the families with children are asking, the hardworking, working family — they are looking at you, the Minister, and they are asking — whether these increases could be forgotten and whether the government could seek a fairer alternative because there are always alternatives. In my opinion, Finnish values are investing in our children... [President MariaLohela : Timed. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u13	Mr President! Despite the fact that we have to take these unfortunate decisions here, this proposal, which has now been in the consultation rounds, has highlighted social justice, the fact that the zero-payment category will remain, that is, early childhood education for the children of the most vulnerable families will also be free of charge in the future. And here too there have been such adjustments that some single-parent families, for example, have even been relieved by this proposal, so that this proposal — as it is now proceeding to Parliament in this form after the consultation — even lowers the contributions of single-parent families in part of single-parent families. You also raised the issue of children’s leisure activities, which was an important issue and one of my favorite subjects. In my opinion, every Finnish child should have the opportunity to engage in a hobby and experiment, gain access to his/her own passions and to try out a new one — every child’s hobby — and in this context there are various activities going on: there are cultural and sporting opportunities in schools during the afternoons. [President MariaLohela : Now is the time to run. — Next question, Mr Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u16	Mr President! The right of children to early childhood education has already been restricted by government measures during the autumn. Group sizes have been increased and this also means that quality will be reduced. At the same time, you are claiming that the charges for this service will be increased. I think it's unheard of. We also know that in large cities, such as Helsinki, housing costs have increased and are increasing all the time. When families with children usually still have student loans on the back of their neck and on top of them these day care fees will rise, how is the government now going to ensure that parents of the family who are doing the ordinary work are at least over-thinking about working and that the legitimacy of the welfare society as a whole is maintained, that is, the person who is doing the paid work will also receive sufficient merit to be able to do his own work and not, for example, have to rely on the help of others?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u17	Madam President! The government has three key objectives, the first of which is to balance public finances, to end living in debt in 2021. The second objective is to improve the employment situation and raise employment to 72% by building 110,000 new jobs. The third relates to the structural reforms that will contribute to these first two objectives. The answer to your question is that in this society we must break down incentive traps, precisely traps that prevent both work and work from being carried out. That is what we in the government are trying to do, and also together with the social partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u18	Mr President! True, the year has begun in many concerned families with children. Now, let's really think about the basic questions of everyday life, whether or not there's enough money. Whether the money is enough for these hobbies is considered in many families, but now there is also concern as to whether the money is sufficient for this basic service, which every day care is. These increases in customer fees are hitting just ordinary working families in a way that is excessive. And while it is linked to this big framework that the government has built on day care, restricting the right to day care for the unemployed or for the families where the parent is at home, all you can think about is that you, the good government, have chosen to scrap Finnish day care. It is very strange, though, to link it to what Mr Grahn-Laasonen said first of all and what Mr Stubb just said. When you aim to promote economic growth, day care, if anything, will support economic growth by enabling the parents of young children to work. This is the wrong line for you. Is it, good government, your goal to drive the parents of Finnish young children home, women back to the stove to take care of the children only at home?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u19	Mr President! This last speech is not at all correct. On the contrary, early childhood education is a very important service. Families also estimate the quality of this service to be very high. At the moment, the Finnish National Board of Education is working for the very first time to prepare the basics of early childhood education, that is to say to strengthen the role of early childhood education as part of our education system and its continuation and to increase its pedagogical quality. At the moment, the situation in Finland is so difficult that we have to make unpleasant, disgusting decisions here in Parliament this year, just as we have had to make many previous years. But I think it is very important for families with children that the current situation of Finland's misery is reversed, that the decisions that have been prepared are actually taken to the finish line and thus that a new time begins in the economy. I believe that families with children in Finland are waiting for us here in Parliament to take a bold line that will reverse Finland's direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u20	Mr President! In many ways, the Board of Directors increases customer fees. I have therefore been concerned about this development, such as the 30% increase in customer charges for social welfare and health care, which has led to strong regional inequalities. I have noticed that the regions and municipalities that are wealthy compared to the rest of the country have increased them by an index increase, for example, the Pirkanmaa Hospital District and the Helsinki Hospital District, but the poorer hospital districts have increased these customer fees to the maximum in social welfare and health care services. I am therefore extremely concerned about this kind of regional inequality, and I ask the minister in question: how do you prevent this kind of inequality from happening also on a regional basis, and do you think that the government has acted as required by the Constitution and the Health Care Act to promote the health of the population and the reduction of health inequalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u21	Madam President! We have a system to equalise inequalities between municipalities in relation to state shares. Ensuring equality across Finland, regardless of what is the carrying capacity of the region, depends on how the costs within the country can be offset. This government did not propose the 2016 budget and Parliament decided to cut the central government's shares, but more euros came to municipalities on the basis of the decisions made. Secondly, with regard to these customer fees: Customer fee legislation is possible, not mandatory. And this government proposal, which aimed at making additional revenue of EUR 150 million available to the whole municipality through customer charges, was an enabling law. Some municipalities have decided otherwise. Honourable representative, equalisation between municipalities and regions and equality is ensured through the system of central government transfers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u22	Mr President! This year, many of the heavy government cuts hit people’s daily lives and many people are concerned about the future. Significant cuts in early childhood education have already been made, group sizes have been raised, and many universities, for example, are now facing redundancies and a downward spiral, and the threat of forced laws is hovering. Many have lost up to thousands of euros of their earnings, and it is clear that this is a cause for concern. Now it would be good if the government had a little message that this everyday concern is taken seriously. Day care payment increases talk about ordinary middle-class people who have to pay hundreds of euros more a year if this happens, and experts, early childhood education and economic experts, including the OECD, have criticised the fact that this leads people away from working life if it becomes more difficult to come to day care. In other words, it is quite the opposite of what Mr Stubb said just now that we are trying to remove the structural traps that people are not going to work — making it more difficult to get into day care harmful to the employment of families and the right of children to balanced early education. How do you see, Mr Stubb, that this cut from this is detrimental to employment and equality, too?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u23	Madam President! Two answers. First: Does the government understand the pain of these cuts, the daily lives and anxiety and fear of men? Yeah, that's definitely what we're gonna do. The second answer to your question: you addressed the OECD report, which, on the face of it, strongly supported the government's economic policy. On just one point, just as you mentioned here — including home care support and this type of question — the OECD would do differently in this situation. The last point is that we are currently in a situation where, even this year, we are taking on some EUR 5 billion in additional debt. We are going to have to adjust, and before we can make this country more competitive, thereby leading to exports leading to an improvement in the employment situation, the foundations of our welfare society will decline. So now we must invest in all the means that promote employment and growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u24	Mr President! Just as the Minister for Finance said, and I would like to open up these payments and the preparation of this model a little bit. This basic proposal, which has now been in the consultation process, is prepared by officials from the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Ministry of Finance, and has taken particular account of the fact that there is no incentive trap effect, or has been an attempt to minimise it in this work. Then there is this retention of the zero-payment category, i.e. that society will continue to replace the entire early childhood education service for the most vulnerable families, i.e. we will maintain this zero-paying category for the most vulnerable families and the increase in contributions will focus on better-income families.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u25	Mr President! In 2015, the lowest number of children were born in Finland since the hunger years of the 1860s. This is something we should really be concerned about. Our population is ageing and the dependency ratio is deteriorating. Small municipalities wither when children are not born. Studies show that job insecurity and regular income prevent women from starting a family. We should now offer women permanent jobs and facilitate the reconciliation of family and work. But what is the government doing? Limit the right to day care, reduce the quality of day care by increasing group sizes and increasing the fees for day care. So I ask you now, Minister: what will the government do to improve reconciliation between family and work in order to increase the birth rate?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u26	Madam Speaker! A serious matter should not be taken lightly or lightly pronounced, but this government is very little to blame for the birth rate of 2015. Second of all, what are we trying to do? Predictability and stability — of course a permanent job is a big deal. In the big picture of the government, we try to make the wheel spin that there will be work in Finland and Finnish work in the future. Secondly, we have a programme for the change of children and families, one of the 26 top government projects, developing the content of child and family services so that we can move forward, for example, in how safe a parent can spend his day when a child is in the service of society. Thirdly, this coordination: we will come out with the equality programme for the government during this month, and there will be more than one concrete way of doing this to your question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u27	And Minister Stubb.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u28	Mr President! The representative is absolutely right in his analysis. In fact, we currently have two major structural changes in the economy to which we are trying to respond: The first is the demographic structure. We have an ageing population, which in practice means that more and more people are retiring, fewer and fewer people are working. The second is the global economy. Its realities are what we live in. Now we are trying to make decisions as a whole which will change the structure of our economy, which will change the structure of our labour market. At the moment, we are not in a position to be flexible in one direction or another. The currency is not flexible in the same way as it was in the 1990s, and unfortunately the labour market is not flexible in that way. The only thing that is currently flexible in the midst of these adjustments is the families, and unfortunately the unemployed in particular, and that is what we are looking for. It cannot be that unemployment is the only one that is increasing in this economic situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u29	Madam President, fru talman! It is clear that this is your day care policy. In the mornings, when you go there to take your daughter to day care, you often get feedback and ask what you are doing in that Parliament. This is now one of the issues that worries us, and it does not only concern those who visit it, there is also everyone else in this society, because day care is a very central part of our welfare state. It is a fact that by you we are now in a situation where we are not encouraged, as Mr Stubb, Minister Grahn-Laasonen remembers well during the last parliamentary term, because it was stated that we have a problem of equality, too many mothers are at home, and we had active measures to get mothers to work and also fathers to work. We are now in a situation where your actions will lead to the opposite, where these increases in payments will encourage people to stay at home for economic reasons. You, Mr Stubb, have just said quite contradictoryly about this. At least this logic of yours did not open up to me, how does this payment policy serve our economy? That's exactly the opposite of what they're doing. After all I've been studying economics, I don't think I understand this, but now you have to tell me how this economic logic goes. Jag förstår inte.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u30	Madam President! On the one hand, there are major macro-economic measures affecting labour demand and labour supply. They will be negotiated on the one hand through the content of the competitiveness package, on the other hand through wage moderation and, on the other hand, through increased productivity and, on the other hand, through local agreement. These are the major structural reforms. Then, on a smaller scale, we will have a fiscal framework that we are constantly working on, and that is where we are trying to make decisions. They have less effect than that big frame. Our argument is that these adjustment measures, whether related to day care, early education or the like, will continue unless we improve the employment situation in this country if we do not achieve growth, and that will require far-reaching structural reforms, but we currently have rigidities in society that prevent these reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u31	Madam President! A good family policy will certainly be able to influence the birth rate, but the government has repeatedly been in the pocket of families with children and very substantial sums. It seems a little confusing to me that Mr Stubb's answer to the way in which these day care fees could encourage people to work, whereas, on the contrary, experts have already shown that these increases in day care fees are going to increase the incentive traps. A family of two people on average would pay EUR 674 per month for day care in the future. Surely, many wonder if it is worth going to work if day - care fees increase by such a rhythm. I would have asked the government: do you understand that these increases in day care fees actually increase incentives and will weaken people's entry into employment and thus make it more difficult to increase the national economy and increase tax revenues?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u32	Mr President! I understand very well that these savings are bad. On the other hand, as the mother of a small child, I also think that the Finnish economy needs to be put in order so that we can afford to finance the valuable services of our welfare society in the future. Even after these increases, society will pay about 85% of early childhood education services, and only about 15% will be funded by families. Of course, I would rather not introduce such a law on increases in payments, but the economic situation in Finland is now so difficult that these unfortunate decisions have to be made. The government has negotiated its government programme between three parties, which includes an increase of EUR 54 million in contributions to early childhood education, and this is what we have prepared and sought the best possible model,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u35	Mr President! After all, this change programme for child and family services, which has already been mentioned in the government, was launched in January, and this programme, in the midst of these unfortunate austerity decisions, is truly positive news. The aim of this change programme is to organise and manage child and family services well. Therefore, the administration must not matter when children or families with children seek the urgent help they need in that customer service jungle. This is by no means a new invention; we already have a few cities, including Imatra, where this practice has been going on for some time. I would like to ask Minister Ruhula: are these good practices already easily transferable, and with what timetable do you assess the visible results?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u36	Madam President! If this work — so that the practices that have been developed throughout Finland over the years can be amplified — would be easy to plow, it would have been done. We are now trying under this programme, with responsibility, first of all, to collect these policies. The Imatra model is one model in child welfare. Raisio has another model, In Oulu, when building a new Oulu family service centre, Mikkeli will have one door so that the child and the family can go through the door without asking in advance what service I can get, but the services are available. This is at the heart of it, with the aim that in two years' time we would have been able to collect these good practices so far that they would have been distributed across the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u37	Last question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u38	Madam President! In the case of day care services, the starting point is good for those with higher incomes to participate in a higher contribution than families with low incomes or unemployed. The problem is that the lower limit for the highest level of payment is so low that, as I have already told you before, the income level of two bus drivers or two nearby carers is referred to, so that these increases hit these families. The Finnish people’s sense of security is at its lowest in decades, and this is where the great role is played by coping with everyday life, whether they are working or able to pay bills, keep the roof on top of their heads and can take care of their health. In a welfare state, this concern should not play such a role as it currently plays. The cost of one excluded person has been set at EUR 1 million, and we just can't afford any of this anymore. Huge, oversized cuts in education and group size, increases in morning and afternoon care,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u41	Madam President! I do not know about self-control, but I will answer in two ways: the first is that if our employment situation does not improve, these adjustments will unfortunately continue, because the fact is that a welfare society cannot be maintained if the employment rate is this and if growth is not visible. To this end, we need structural reforms, including on the labour market. The second answer: I believe that this debate has been symbolically and practically important. Why? Because we are currently living in the debt of children who are in early childhood education, and that is what we are trying to avoid.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u42	Next question, Congressman Olli-Son Parviainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u43	Mr President! My topic is integration. How successful we are in the integration of asylum seekers who come to Finland, and in particular those who remain in Finland, is one of the most pressing issues of today and the coming years. Indeed, it has been well established from the government that the rapid activation of immigrants is important, integration must not just remain theoretical and that integration practices must be reformed without prejudice. This work already starts at reception centres. For example, participation in voluntary work could contribute to integration by providing activities, getting to know people and seeing the everyday life of a normal Finnish person. However, we have had to read in the news how there has been opposition to the voluntary activities of asylum seekers in day-care centres, and snow creation almost ran into bureaucracy. I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior: what is the government going to do to ensure that asylum seekers' opportunities to volunteer and become part of the Finnish community are supported in reception centres?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u44	Madam President! This integration is absolutely essential if Finnish society is to be able to accept the people who receive asylum from us and to integrate them into Finnish society, also to build Finland. This work must begin at the reception centre stage, and this has been done with determination. The first thing that is done is a knowledge-based survey, and it is already starting to start — see what skills are available, what training needs are available — and the path will then continue as quickly as possible for those who receive asylum, towards integration training and working life. This is very important for us in the ministerial working group on immigration, which is currently under discussion. Ministers Lindström and Grahn-Laasonen are currently bringing these issues to the table in connection with integration training and training for immigrants. There is a lot of work to be done here now, and hopefully a lot will also be done on a very fast schedule.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u45	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen completes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u46	Mr President! Successful integration is one of the biggest challenges this spring, and today this debate has been so timely that I received experts' proposals this morning, 56 ways in which we can promote integration through education. Eighty-four per cent of asylum seekers who came to Finland last year are under 34 years old, and just under 70 per cent of them are still between 16 and 34 years old, which will mean that we have a great deal of need for different individual training paths. The existing structures are not working: they are too long, there is a lot of idle. Flexibility is needed and faster paths are needed, both in education and in working life. The government has made a very determined move here, and I will personally see to it that these 56 proposals go straight ahead, some of which are well advanced.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u47	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u48	Mr President! Indeed, a lot of valuable work is already being done in reception centres to work with local actors. After all, the aim is to make a meaningful contribution to asylum seekers. How do you assess the current situation? In other words, could this work be developed and improved in some way, for example, with regard to these measures, which the Minister for Education has just mentioned, and would you like to open them up a little? And could we also respond to the urgent need, for example, by means of an effective national campaign together with organisations? At the same time, could resources possibly be redirected to this issue?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u49	Mr President! It is a shame that Mr Lindström is not here, he would have the best information on these. It is clear, therefore, that, even at the reception centre stage, this training should be started and, as I said, this knowledge assessment is the first. But what is more, the activation of these people in reception centres is that they get to do things, they get to participate in doing things in everyday life, they can help, they can also work in the surrounding environment. And as has already been said here, we have once again come across Finnish bureaucracy in that it was not possible to do snowwork either. These are all the things we are working on at the moment. We need to think in a new way so that we can get people who want to participate, who want to do so, also activated. I believe that in that way, if there is meaningful involvement and therefore interaction with the surrounding environment, the people of Finland, integration will be smoother and better overall.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u50	Mr President! The question raised this role of volunteering, and it has been absolutely invaluable in this first stage too. In my own sector, at the Ministry of Education and Culture, we reacted immediately and started to support, among other things, youth organisations and sports clubs, and also through culture, to make it possible for reception centres to be taken into account in local activities, in different localities. For example, sports clubs have been very enthusiastic about this, Martas are involved, student organisations are involved, so there has been a great deal of good work done there, where good-willed Finns have started to build bridges between asylum seekers in reception centres and the native population. We need measures to reform our education system to better absorb these immigrants into different individual paths, we need direct access to working life and we will need volunteers in the future as well as the role of all of us Finns in ensuring that when asylum seekers receive asylum – those asylum seekers who receive asylum – they can be integrated into this society and they can feel welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u51	Mr President! Unfortunately, over the last few months we have seen violent problems, hate speech, criminal behaviour in some situations, sometimes on the part of asylum seekers, sometimes on our part of the People's Republic of Finland, and all this is just as reprehensible to me. Of course, this is a very tight place for this integration to take place, and all means are valuable. One of the things that Finland has often paid attention to is that we have very few police officers and authorities of immigrant origin. In order to increase the credibility of police activities and to support the police, it would certainly be worth considering whether this route could be opened, that immigrants from a background in Finland, who have been placed in Finland, might have a better chance of starting a career like this in some way. I think this is important. And perhaps as a general question: is the government now planning to increase the resources of the police and immigration authorities, at least temporarily, when this is the case?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u52	Madam President! I will start with this last one, which means that we have increased the resources of the police, the security authorities and the immigration authorities significantly for this year. It has, in part, been absolutely necessary, but then the choice has also been made that security has been particularly important. Perhaps more will be of concern in the coming years, but that is the things we will return to. We are making an internal security report at the moment, and we have the opportunity to discuss it in this Chamber. It is quite true that we have a shortage of foreign police officers. This has been known to the police for a long time, and it has been and is a special project that encourages young immigrants to apply for police studies. I think it is very welcome and, in its own way, it would certainly facilitate relations between the police and immigrants.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u53	Madam President! From the point of view of the Minister for Finance, integration actually combines two sets: the first is the accounting exercise that we have to do with the increase in the costs of asylum seekers. It is roughly 0.5 billion a year when we deal with the increase in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior and so on. But the other side that we need to look at in the long term is specifically about integration and how immigrants, asylum seekers, can be put to work. They are changing, as Mr Grahn-Laasonen said very well, our demographic structure. If 80% of those who have entered the country are now under 34 years of age, the chances of employment are enormous. My final point is this: according to the IMF's assessment, even if Europe manages this asylum situation badly, from the point of view of economic growth we are talking about an increase of around 0.2% per year. Last point: I understand that this is a difficult subject for discussion. However, it is worth putting it on a scale: asylum seekers accounted for about 0.2% of the total European population last year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u54	Mr President! European values and achievements are at risk, and one of the reasons is that Europe has so far been unable to agree and implement the common border control, the common and uniform asylum and immigration policy required to preserve this. And all support for Minister Orpo and the government insofar as you want to drive and try to drive this in Europe. But from the point of view of integration, I also see another danger to these values, and that is the hate speech and outright violence — the last bottle shock as an example — that has also been caused by the situation. I would like to ask Minister Orpo: how do you see and what the problem is that we may still not have enough, both through value management and, if necessary, through public authorities, to intervene in this kind of adversarial, hateful and provoking and misinformation-based activity?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u55	Madam President! It is the case that, acting on my own, these problems which have now been seen, these unimaginable, reprehensible acts of violence in different directions, cannot be solved — they can be prevented, reduced, but they do not create a lasting solution. The sustainable solution is that we have an open debate on values in Finland based on facts, how we deal with this issue, how we deal with it as a civil society. We must have a good debate and understand that this change that we have encountered is not a passing phenomenon, but we are facing a phenomenon that will continue. I cannot say about volumes and numbers, but it is clear that the pressure on immigration to Europe and also to Finland will continue. That is why we must be able to discuss this matter and not just try to forget this existing state of affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u56	Madam President! Representative Judgments are absolutely right that there are only and only common European solutions to this issue of asylum. Personally, I strongly believe that this will be the case, that in the area of asylum policy, external border control, justice and home affairs in general, we will work more closely together within the European Union. That is the only solution, because we see where intergovernmentalism can lead at its worst on these issues. The second issue raised by the representative of the Judgments was European values. Yes, there is a lively debate on European values at the moment. I think it is very important that we adhere to the fundamental values of the West on which the European Union as a whole is founded: freedom, responsibility, human rights, fundamental rights, freedom of expression. And when cultures run into each other, there's gonna be a conversation about these things. The Government's line is unambiguously clear and defined in our government programme: openness, tolerance and internationalism, and that is what we represent in the European Union's fields.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u57	Madam President! The original question concerned integration measures, and I am glad that you raised the obstacles to volunteering, Mr Grahn-Laasonen. I hope that the debate which has also taken place in Parliament in recent years will also raise the question of the possibility for the Finnish unemployed to take part in voluntary work. Municipalities play a very important role as part of this asylum process, and although the state initially cares for these costs, this long process will ultimately end up in the municipalities and, as has been said here, this phenomenon is not passing away. I would like to ask the Minister of Local Government: how do you see the role and resources of the municipalities now, precisely those resources, when we want measures quickly and yet we know limited resources?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u58	Mr President! Firstly, as far as children and young people are concerned, it is a matter of urgency that it requires resources from local authorities and, as Mr Grahn-Laasonen has said here and in the past, we have been able to prepare for it. But then it is the right question how, now that it is estimated that at least 10,000 asylum seekers will get a positive decision this year, will be able to act in the municipalities. We must, of course, assess this economic aspect, which, in fact, goes through the Ely Centres in terms of integration, and certainly also around the spending limits. And as the questioner knows, it is true that everyone who has had a positive decision will also have to choose which municipality to go to, and, of course, that will probably put the greatest pressure on the large cities, but we hope that there will be a more even return to the different municipalities. There are many more questions to be resolved here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u59	One last question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u60	Mr President! In its recent immigration policy programme, the Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament has tabled a proposal to create an integrated working system for asylum seekers, which would enable the asylum seeker to have this work permit, i.e. before the end of the qualifying period, to have the right and even the obligation to take part in the integration work activities, either in reception centres, organisations, municipalities or also in companies. Then he would also have the opportunity to get acquainted with working life and perhaps get some kind of certificate of employment, so that if he got a positive permit, he would be able to catch up more quickly with the job. This would also avoid the traction factor associated with the proposals that have proposed to shorten this limitation period, [President MariaLohela : Questions!]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u63	Mr President! All the proposals that we are now able to mobilise asylum seekers, immigrants, to help them quickly into working life and integrate into society are now openly received and we are going to go through yours too. I promise. So these are the key words: 'quickly', 'active measures', 'working life' and 'integration into society'. The same applies, of course, to the unemployed people in Finland. We need these same means for them as well. But for these carnivals. After all, we now have the practice of working after three months, and in practice we are now taking longer to find out these papers and make decisions on asylum, because there have been so many people coming. In the future, this time will be shorter as this mill starts to grind and gets these decisions made at a faster pace. We need to go through all the proposals that we have in this area and quickly get practices. We don't have much time to wait, because these people are already here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u64	Next question, Congressman Sarkkinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u65	Mr President! In January, many people received a shocking letter about increases in electricity transmission prices of up to 30%. In the background, the sale of Fortum's electricity networks to mainly foreign-owned Caruna has been carried out in 2013. The Left was opposed to Fortum's sale of electricity networks as the sole government party. The price of electricity affects everyone. A lot of electricity is consumed in winter frosts, and where is the money of the Finns? In the pockets of a foreign company. The Left Alliance has taken an initiative to propose a number of measures to address the excessive rise in transfer prices. We are proposing, for example, to set a ceiling for the permitted lump sums of electricity transmission charges, to reduce the amount of revenue allowed for companies and to make the Energy Agency's supervisory right more flexible and real-time. What will the government do to ensure that electricity transmission prices do not rise unduly?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u66	Madam President! As Mr Sarkkinen said, these large price increases in Caruna — an average of 27%, with one method of calculating — are hitting a very large number of Finns very badly. I find this huge one-off increase quite unreasonable for consumers. I will propose a legislative amendment in order to avoid such excessive increases in the future. I have also been in contact with the consumer authorities because of this acute problem. The Consumer Ombudsman Päivi Hentunen will meet tomorrow with the leadership of Caruna and recommend by negotiation that these excessive price increases be moderated, and the Consumer Ombudsman will also consider making a group complaint if necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u69	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u70	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for your reply, and I am delighted that action will be taken. On the basis of publicly available information, Caruna can rightly be suspected of tax evasion through aggressive tax planning, i.e. in addition to excessive price increases, the company does not pay taxes properly to Finland either. Controlling authorities seem to be toothless in front of Caruna's activities. The law does not provide the authorities with sufficient means to intervene in the operation of electricity transmission companies. The Finnish pays, and the profits flow abroad. I would also like to ask: what measures does the government intend to take to ensure that it is the authorities who are better placed to deal with tax evasion by electricity transmission companies in the future and with this erosion of citizens?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u71	Madam President! It goes without saying that if there is one minister or one person who is opposed to tax evasion, it is the Minister of Finance — the more tax revenue, the better. In fact, in the OECD, the G20 countries launched an initiative in 2013 to build a system to prevent the tax base from collapsing, to intervene in aggressive or other tax activities by international companies. As a result, two entities are currently on the way, and Finland strongly supports them. The first is the 15 so-called BEPS measures within the OECD and the second has been published last week by the Commission's corporate tax package. Finland has signed one section of this OECD BEPS solution and we will take forward all the measures that bring tax and tax information to the common domain.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u72	Madam President! The basic infrastructure must be held in domestic hands, in particular the monopolistic infrastructure — preferably by public ownership. These were the reasons why the Left Alliance, as a minister in the Committee of Ministers for Economic Policy, opposed Fortum's shops to Caruna. But this is not the only time that basic infrastructure has been traded. A similar blow was made in Digita, while the French exploit the monopoly. It also reminds me of shops such as Kemira Yara stores or many shops where regionally creative industrial companies have been sold to foreign owners. This is not the interests of Finnish workers, it is not the interests of Finnish citizens or the interests of the Finnish state. Madam President, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, whether selling basic infrastructure and national property at a lower price is patriotic.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u73	Madam President! Perhaps the angle of the question is so difficult that you cannot give a straight answer to it. In this particular case. If I do not recall quite correctly — I was not a member of the Committee on Economic Policy at the time — then there was talk of strategic ownership and it was concluded that it could be sold and that Fortum made the final sale of this. Of course, this depends entirely on the way in which strategic ownership is defined. I personally must admit that I am not one of the friends of public or private monopolies. Of you, Congressman Arhinmäki, I don't know.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u74	Madam President! Of course, the whole previous government has a place to look in the mirror. There were some amazing miscalculations here. For example, the then Minister for Economic Affairs, Vapaavuori, said in December 2013: "Fortum trade does not increase the price of electricity." But, Mr President, this must now be taken up and I support what Mr Rehn has said here. We hope that the government will bring legislative proposals and we hope that this can be addressed. Mr President! Mr Stubb, I would like to remind you that you yourself have been driving, the government has been driving, a payment policy that strikes much more painfully and much more Finns than these increases that have now been seen. You have said that these increases in Caruna are unreasonable. Would you please tell the Finnish people now that if these increases are excessive, why are the health and day care charges you are driving?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u75	This does not really have anything to do with the actual issue. Let's take the next question, Congressman Turunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u76	Mr President! Now that it has been acknowledged here that mistakes have been made during the previous parliamentary term and even accused of others, the fact is stated, however, that those who are free of these errors are only two parties,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u79	Madam President! First of all, thank you for your support for these measures. As far as this history is concerned, these things have happened during the previous government, and I will not interfere. It's important to look ahead now. The speed with which these legislative proposals can be dealt with in Parliament is, above all, a matter for Parliament and for the Committee on Economic Affairs. I am confident that we will work together in a smooth and proper manner here too. We will start preparing this amendment of the law immediately. I have given instructions on this to the Energy Department of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, and we will do so very soon to ensure that we are able to avoid such totally unreasonable, unjustified increases in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u80	Madam President! Here, when this debate takes place, we must see the whole thing. First of all, the goal at the time of 2011 was to ensure that all Finns are protected from electricity coming home, to make the networks safe in this respect, and that is a goal that we must try to continue to keep. The second aspect is that it was indeed intended to regulate the fact that prices do not get too high on the Energy Agency's side. Now such a big question really is what kind of detailed guidance will be given to it in the direction of the Energy Agency. The big question is probably not how much foreign or domestic ownership is involved, but how to put this business forward in practice. I ask, Minister Rehn: what practical advice have you already given to the Energy Agency without any legal changes being required?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u81	Mr Jaskari is quite right to point out that it is important and necessary to ensure that the transmission networks are secure. That is the original purpose of this law. When it comes to a monopoly, a so-called natural monopoly, it is justifiable and absolutely necessary to regulate it in the name of the overall interests of society. I asked the Energy Agency for a report and we will launch this legislative amendment on the basis of this report. With a view to improving supervision, the Energy Agency is proposing two measures in particular: firstly, to establish a ceiling for these increases in the electricity transmission price, i.e. the one-off changes in their increases, the one-off increases, as well as the frequency, and, in parallel with this, the background to Mr Jaskar's question, to ensure sufficient allocation of these revenues in the form of network charges for investments and other development of network activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u82	Madam President! We must continue to thank the Minister for this quick response, which you have tactfully raised. However, I would like to ask a few more questions here, in the same way as Mr Jaskari, what the concrete measures are. A bit of a nasty taste of the fact that this legislation was adopted last year and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy's report recorded a longer transition period than was the case in the government's proposal. We obviously had little faith in children that there would be a period of 15 years where these increases and network security issues could be done without what the report specifically stressed was unreasonable. In a way, I would like to ask the Minister: have you assessed the report's message of reasonableness and 15 years, and how do you deal with whether the Energy Market Agency has actually acted contrary to that entry by giving such an opportunity to companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u83	You referred, Mr Myllykoski, to these longer transitional periods. This is one issue that has been assessed, but the evaluation is ongoing, and we will come back to that in the context of this legislative process. Above all, we will focus on preventing excessive increases and, of course, creating a frequency for repetition, so that this becomes proper legislation. In addition, it is important that, at the same time, the security of electricity transmission networks be considered, which is an important issue for all consumers and citizens. It will be a matter of squaring this circle in this piece of legislation, and that is where we will certainly work well with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u84	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the UaVM 2/2015 vp. In this context, Mr Kaikkonen should also be allowed to present the reports in paragraphs 5 and 6, since all three reports relate to the same whole. — This is how it is done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u85	Mr President! At its meeting, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the reports of the Finnish delegations from 2014 on the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE and the Council of Europe and the Nordic Council of Ministers. There has indeed been a huge need for cooperation such as these three organisations and bodies in this decade. These organisations, with their parliamentary dimensions, have the dignity of strengthening the debate that Europe and the Nordic countries are sorely in need of at the moment. Dialogue and diplomacy are now more important than they have been for a long time. The dramatic events of 2014 in Crimea and later in the rest of Ukraine were strongly reflected in the activities of these three international organisations. The tightening of relations between Russia and the West can also be followed up through activity reports. At the same time, attention can be drawn to the fact that the dialogue with Russia has not been completely cut off. These organisations have even been exceptional fora because both the EU, Russia and Ukraine have been present. It is important to continue dialogue with Russian parliamentarians and other actors in order to find constructive solutions. However, activating the dialogue cannot be at the expense of the fundamental principles of international law and the rule-based international system. In particular, it would not be in the interests of small countries. Mr President! The security environment in the Baltic Sea region has changed significantly in recent years. The serious security situation underlines the importance of cooperation between the Nordic countries, as by acting together we will best strengthen the stability of our region in all sectors. The Nordic countries form a solid community based on common history, values and practices. In view of history and the developments of recent years, the Committee considers the added value of Nordic cooperation in foreign and security policy to be emphasised. It is important that cooperation opportunities are used consistently to strengthen Finland’s security. Here, too, the involvement of parliamentarians in the development of cooperation is important. Mr President! The OSCE is based on a broad concept of security, which emphasises not only political and social security but also the importance of democracy and human rights and economic and environmental issues as a whole. Our security is strongly based on the territorial integrity of states and respect for sovereignty. Therefore, the 2014 activities of the OSCE are a key reflection of the Ukraine crisis and its impact on European security. We note that the Finnish delegation, under the leadership of Ilkka Kanerva, has participated in the proceedings of the General Assembly with an impressive and visible contribution. Throughout the crisis, the organisation has played an important role in finding diplomatic and political solutions. The Council of Europe is closer to a 70-year-old human rights organisation whose task is to safeguard and develop human rights, democracy and the rule of law. The Committee on Foreign Affairs notes that international law and a rule-based international system are a prerequisite for prosperity, security and stable development. In Europe, attention must be paid to the fact that even in a difficult political and economic situation, human rights obligations or the rule of law are not forgotten. Their defence is all the more up-to-date here in Europe, on the basis of the Council of Europe and the OSCE. Mr President! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has not had any comments on the reports. The reports of delegations are a challenge for the committee itself, that the report always applies to the previous period, in this case more than a year ago. It can be said that efforts were being made at the very end of last year, but there was no suitable time, and that is why it moved all the way here. Of course, representatives of delegations who have consulted the committee as experts, like the committee, would rather focus on this moment or the future rather than reviewing past events. As last year has shown, there is a great deal of turmoil in Europe on a very fast schedule, and the committee is not in a position to discuss the most up-to-date debate when dealing with reports. I therefore welcome the fact that cooperation between delegations and the committee would be enhanced, for example by consulting the members of the delegation on the activities of each body during the period of operation. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is prepared for this. This would enable delegations to be informed more quickly of the importance of the delegation and, at the same time, of the priorities that the committee felt important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u86	Mr President! As the chairman of the committee said, there are more than a year-old events in the debate, a report from 2014, but there are still many things that are worrying in this situation. This report states: "The resolution adopted by the General Assembly following the vote states that Russia, as a member of the OSCE, has committed itself to the principles agreed in the Helsinki Final Act, but in the context of the crisis in Ukraine, Russia has seriously violated all the principles of the OSCE Final Act. The General Assembly condemned Russia's violations against Ukraine's independence and territorial integrity and urged Member States not to recognise the violent annexation of Crimea to Russia." The situation has not changed in practice in a year, and worrying news from Ukraine is still coming. The crisis has been prolonged, and even today the news has reported instability in Eastern Ukraine, and Crimea has also remained heavily under Russian control. However, to some extent attention has been shifted in the media and in public debate also to Russia's activities in Syria, and with some concern I have listened to the messages in which, in itself, Russia sanctions, which treat us Finns hard-handedly, have in some way already been sought to bring them to light that they should be dismantled. This would be interesting for the chairman of the committee and also for Mr Kanerva to hear ideas about these Russian sanctions and how Finland will ensure that Russia returns to the path to which they have committed themselves in joint agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u87	Mr President! The report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs recalls the essential principles of the OSCE on which the European security structure is based. These principles include respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of States and the right of each country to decide on accession to international agreements. International agreements and their accession have arisen under certain circumstances during a certain period. In his speech yesterday, President Niinistö reminded us that under changed circumstances, right here and now, it is not always possible to fulfil all the obligations. One country, even a large one, cannot solve global or European problems. There is a need for joint EU decision-making and action. There is also a need for a balanced vision between objectives and means. With climate change and immigration, Europe may face the greatest challenges of its history. The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSCE, is doing important work on security, democracy, the environment and human rights. Mr Kanerva has played an important role in chairing the OSCE General Assembly. This can hardly be overemphasized and his active role to be commended. Election observation is one area in which Finland has been active. Work is valuable, although results cannot always be achieved quickly. Still, it's worth it and it's got to be done. The delegation's report draws attention to the prevention and prosecution of child sex trafficking. All OSCE countries should clarify their laws in this regard, says the report. This is all the more topical in the current situation of immigration to Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u88	Mr President! We must first thank the authors of this report, the officials and our good, active members of the delegation. In particular, this Baku meeting was quite significant for Finland. Finnish MPs represented the Finnish perspective from the side to the side, regardless of the party. At the time, we wanted the Finnish Ilkka Kanerva to be the chairman of the General Assembly and we did a strong job, hard work, and with a slight difference in voice we had an excellent chairman. Of course, these are issues of the year 14; these have already gone a great deal further — I will not go into them — but the Finnish delegation members were also very active in pointing out those shortcomings and also the good debate. So I think Finland is a bigger peacemaker than all of this. And I would like to thank Mrs Kanerva very much for this. This job hasn't been easy. The first year went by, and here in Finland the second season was perhaps easier.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u89	Mr President! I have a press release in front of me today, in which the Secretary of State of the OSCE Presidency, the German Foreign Minister, Steinmeier, who is well-known in Finland's foreign policy, strongly and forcefully calls for the immediate cessation of fire in Ukraine, as a whole, to be stopped immediately on all fronts. I am talking about this because we have been somewhat numbed in the comparison of the news stream in our imagination with the events in Syria, the Middle East, and have left it less to the point that, in fact, the journey from Helsinki to the Ukrainian border is shorter than the journey from Helsinki to the northern border of Finland. It is close, and it is felt in many different ways in our security environment. We know that the crisis in Ukraine is not only a crisis in Ukraine, but, of course, it shows that in Europe security interests are confronting one another in a way that seriously creates a new security challenge in our own security environment too. The OSCE is an organisation which is most directly seeking to alleviate the crisis in Ukraine, both at intergovernmental level and in interparliamentary cooperation. This crisis is very, very multidimensional and the OSCE has a very wide toolbox to use to defuse this Ukrainian crisis, and it is indeed using it. The OSCE has almost a thousand people today in various types of tasks to deal with the crisis in Ukraine. Despite the cease-fire agreements that have been concluded, the crisis is becoming extremely regrettable all the time, and, as has been said, in the very last moments again, again, except that the ceasefire agreement is being broken in Ukraine right now, there are also, unfortunately, internal phenomena in Ukraine which are also being reported by the international press today. A very large number of ambassadors in Ukraine made their public comment today that they deeply regret the fact that the Ukrainian Minister for Economic Affairs has just left his task in dealing with internal Ukrainian issues when he felt that the issues facing him were too big and too difficult, impossible to carry through as economic reforms in Ukraine. However, he is known and known as a person who made a very strong effort in the fight against corruption, in the constitutional reform and in other immediate projects representing the reform of Ukraine to move forward decisively and in a way that also has the support and understanding of the international community. He felt that his mission had been carried out in the face of the impossibility, that he had ceased his duties and left them in a way which the international community, by means of a joint statement by these ambassadors in Ukraine, expressed its deeply disillusioned view. All of this tells us that work needs to be done, and it also tells us, of course, that Finland is in favour of all the reasons, not only because of the general security policy, but also because of the issues arising from its own security policy, to do everything possible for peace mediation and reconciliation, political dialogue and diplomacy. It is therefore clear that the OSCE should also represent positions that enable an effective and effective dialogue to take place at all levels that can contribute to this diplomatic solution. In these matters the OSCE principles must be clear to all of us, and in all contexts Finland's active mediation efforts must also be sought. The European Union is currently reforming its foreign policy strategy. I very much hope that, in the context of the reform of that strategy, the European Union will also consider very carefully the positive and negative effects of economic sanctions policy. Sanctions are not used for the first time today, there is a reasonably broad experience of them and it is justified to ask, expect and expect the European Union to assess the effectiveness of its sanctions policy among the range of foreign policy instruments. That is also what the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe has to do. It does not, of course, have financial sanctions at its disposal, but it has diplomacy at its disposal, and all these diplomatic possibilities must at present be made maximum use of to advance the OSCE principles, to safeguard the sovereignty and sovereignty of the peoples.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u90	Mr President! Excellent speeches have been made here, of which the previous one was of course excellent — Ilkka Kanerva knows things very well. Despite many challenges, we must remember all the time that, while the OSCE is not easy in this tense, increasingly tense world, it is still a very important framework for action to strengthen stability and security in Europe. That's the starting point. And this does not, of course, eliminate the fact that, as has been discussed, the OSCE also needs strong development. I think that too is necessary. And I absolutely agree with that need to deepen dialogue and dialogue. It must also be deepened with Russia. And we need to find some kind of exit programme for sanctions policy. It is really important, and it needs to be discussed very seriously in the EU. I recently visited Ukraine and know that the situation in Eastern Ukraine is becoming increasingly difficult if we look at that humanitarian side of the border, in those regions. That help is far from reaching everyone, and I heard it quite clearly and interviewed people there. Food, water, warmth, all this, of course, is missing, shelter, winter is merciless. And who, of course, is the most affected by this extremely difficult situation? Of course, the most vulnerable people, such as children and the elderly. We have to find a solution to this situation in Ukraine, and no matter how naive it sounds now, all means must be put in place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u91	Mr President! Over 40 years ago, the European Security and Cooperation Conference was a major achievement of Finland's foreign policy and today it is also a success, as well as the establishment of the OSCE. The principles adopted there, the international agreement on the OSCE and its principles are very important. For a small country, if anyone, it is important that the agreements that have been approved are complied with and that everyone commits to them. It is a long line of our foreign policy and our tradition over the decades. This applies to the OSCE as well as to other important international agreements. It is permissible to demand that they be carried out by others, but it must also be required that they act accordingly themselves. Last year there was the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly meeting here in Helsinki. It was an important meeting and it aimed specifically at achieving dialogue in the context of increased tension in Europe. It would also be wrong from the point of view of history if it were not mentioned here that that meeting did not quite go to the end and did not quite produce the results we set for it, not least because the same important party at that meeting, the Russian delegation, was not seen. I think it would be necessary, at the same time, to make demands on others, to reflect on our own activities as well, and that is why I ask: has the OSCE's Finnish delegation gone through this refusal of the Russian Duma President's entry visa to Finland? I understood that it was justified in the Foreign Affairs Office on the grounds of legality, that these EU sanctions rules must be strictly respected — a matter of which our European partners had other opinions, including those in Germany. They felt that they should have granted permission. Has there been a study of whether we can learn something from this in view of the follow-up? Has the Committee on Foreign Affairs gone through this side? Is there anything more we can do for ourselves?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u92	Mr Kaikkonen, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u93	Chairman! This case, which Mr Heinäluoma referred to last time, has been dealt with quite carefully in committee. That in itself was the events of 2015 so that it is not in itself recorded in these reports; it is then perhaps more the subject of future reports. But it's not like I thought it was going to be in Strömsö. With regard to the question of sanctions, which Mr Heinonen raised here, I personally, of course, support the common line and the united line between the Government and Finland on this issue. Of course, it is good to remember that sanctions did not come for no reason; there was a reason for them. And their future is tied to progress in the implementation of the Minsk Treaty. There is some progress, there has been a reasonable cease-fire, but in keeping with the spirit, we must continue to monitor the development of the situation on a daily basis. But it would be in everyone's interest to make positive progress in this area. Of course, it has to be said from the point of view of Finland that these sanctions and counter-impositions treat different EU countries differently. Here in Finland, we ourselves suffer more from them than in Portugal or in some less distant EU country; they feel very tangible here. That is also why I think it is important for diplomacy and dialogue to work hard towards a political and peaceful and lasting solution to the crisis in Ukraine and other tensions in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u94	Mr President! Mr Heinäluoma agreed with the united front of all supporters of Finnish foreign policy, the developers, that it is extremely important for a small country not only to respect international agreements but also to support decisions taken by international organisations, their role and influence, such as, of course, the OSCE on the greatest scale. I have not seen in a long, long time that any serious foreign politician would disagree with this basic attitude. In that sense, it was good to hear that Mr Heinäluoma is also firmly on the same front. The Finnish delegation has assessed this issue on what he addressed his question. On top of that, I have personally turned to the EU's Foreign Affairs Commissioner, High Representative Mogherin, on behalf of the General Assembly's leadership, in writing to ask if the EU, as a result of this situation last summer, has something to be corrected in its own legislation so that international diplomacy between parliaments can work and not be in a silent arrangement, as was the case last summer. To this end, the High Representative replied that this would be a matter for consideration by all EU Member States and it would be up to them to decide how to deal with this issue. In my view, this will in future point to solutions that were already seen, for example, by the President of the Russian Parliament visiting Romania just before the end of the year on the occasion of a multinational parliamentary assembly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u95	Mr President! As has been said by several Members, it is particularly important that the agreements are respected, and it is particularly important that the smaller countries comply with the agreements. For Finland, this is the closest history in the last few years of Russian rule, when Finland's economy, culture and identity were based on law, treaties, compliance with them and absolute respect. I'm gonna jump back a few thousand years from here. The Romans said "pacta sunt servanda", the agreements must be kept. The Roman State, the Roman Empire, was destroyed by international migration, economic decline, the collapse of central government. In many respects, Europe is in the same situation as the Roman Empire 1500 years ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u96	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Kaikkonen and Mrs Kanerva, for the answers. It is also very important to hear this response from the High Representative of the EU, which, in a way, allows the Member States to maintain this dialogue in these practical situations. However, I will then raise another important issue, which is the role of Parliament in foreign policy making, whether it concerns the activities of the OSCE or EU sanctions. Last December there was a very unfortunate terrorist attack in France. After that attack, France, very quickly — one might say, in a few hours — decided to appeal specifically to the European Union and the Member States of the Union to obtain assistance in a situation where France announced that it felt it was under attack. So France did not appeal to the OSCE, nor to NATO, but to the European Union, and the Finnish Government has announced that Finland will provide assistance to France, which therefore feels that it is at war. Now I am a little concerned that, although there is talk of such an important issue, that one country of the Union says that it is under attack, feels attacked, asks for help and Finland declares that it will help, and that this matter is not being discussed at all in this Chamber and the government has not told the whole Parliament what it is going to do. When we talk about such lucid matters, which are also a matter of our security, how this article of the Union Treaty is interpreted, I would assume that the whole of Parliament's interest would be to know what the government is doing, where these decisions now being taken in Finland are actually bound, how far this support is ready to go, and also an assessment of what it means in future in similar situations. I therefore ask, in particular, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs: has the Committee on Foreign Affairs raised such a big and fundamental issue that the old tradition of the Finnish Parliament and also the constitution of the European Parliament are:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u97	Mr President! The issue of sanctions has been discussed in this debate and once again the need for exit policy for sanctions has been raised. Fortunately, the chairman of the committee, Mr Kaikkonen, told us the way out of these sanctions. It is compliance with the Minsk Treaty and a return to the common agreements and respect for the sovereign states that Russia has now violated, for example, in relation to Crimea. So the key to lifting sanctions is in Russia's hands. In fact, one thing that should be considered and which I am sure there is a great deal of agreement is that these sanctions are very different from one country to another in the EU. And now that the situation has been prolonged and may be much longer, has there been and should there be a debate on these burden-sharing within the EU on this issue, too, so that European countries are more evenly burdened with the effects of these sanctions? Now they are targeting Finland exceptionally harshly, I am sure we will agree on that. I hope that the leadership of our foreign policy and the leadership of EU policy will also hold this debate and will open up the burden to be shared more equitably on this issue as well. We have had another big question on the table and it has wanted the whole of the EU to share the burden so that, in this act of escape, there is no less room for burden sharing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u98	Mr President! I believe that the role of the OSCE as an independent actor and intermediary has increased in recent years, and the work of Mr Kanerva and the whole Finnish delegation has been very progressive and very good. It is true that Syria has left this situation in Ukraine a bit out of hand. These sanctions against Russia — I would like to ask how they have affected the current situation in Ukraine, these sanctions imposed on Russia. For Finland, they are also very heavy. And, as Mr Heinonen has said here, has it been thought that this burden sharing would be carried out between the EU, because for Finland it is very heavy, also economically?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u99	Mr President! In the interests of certainty, I would like to reiterate briefly that in the last few days, today, yesterday and the previous day, there has been a sharp increase in the number of gunfires in Eastern Ukraine. It is on this basis that Secretary of State Steinmeier came out today on the basis of the ceasefire agreement, and that is a very fundamental principle — the Minsk Treaty is the only way out of the Ukraine crisis. It will require a long period of time and a great deal of diplomatic action. And I also strongly hope that Finland's own contribution will continue. The French terrorist attack is an issue whose consequences Mr Heinäluoma has rightly spoken about here. We are well aware that there is legislation in the government's direction on how, for example, Finland's regulations on the use of force should be reconsidered in the light of the Treaty of Lisbon. The application of the Treaty of Lisbon in the new situation is at stake and, of course, the parameters of the Treaty of Lisbon are to be fully respected. Finland can't do this now because of its own limited legislation, because of its inadequacy. This preparatory work is under way in the government, and legislation on this issue will be before this Parliament this spring. With regard to this answer to France, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has certainly come... The chairman will be more specific about this. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is aware of this and I am absolutely sure that, in one way or another, the big House will soon be aware of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u100	Mr President! Mr Heinonen asked about this burden-sharing of sanctions. Well, that may not be the top affairs of the Committee on Foreign Affairs at the moment, but of course the Committee on Foreign Affairs is also interested in what the situation and the future are. In fact, when the committee was in Brussels last week and met with representatives of the EU institutions on the second day, we did raise this unfair burden-sharing in a number of ways, but it is primarily a matter for the government of the country to deal with. This request for French assistance, which Mr Heinäluoma raised, is an important matter. For years, there was also a debate in Finland about what these so-called EU security guarantees are or whether they are at all paper. Well, now we see they exist and they matter. It did not take 24 hours for France to ask for help and all EU countries had responded to that request for help. It's important. We've seen it now. As far as Finland is concerned, I myself believe that the very final and precise decisions on what the Finnish contribution here is are still to be made, but at the end of last year the UaV has been given an account of the intentions which the government had to help France in various ways. Minister for Foreign Affairs Soini will be at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs next Friday so that we can raise this issue with him in the discussions, what is the situation and whether the government intends to bring it to the debate in the great Chamber. Of course, if there is a greater desire for it in committee and in Parliament, then the committee will have the means to bring it to the debate if such a need is more generally felt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u101	Mr President! I very much welcome the way in which Mr Kanerva has addressed this French request for assistance here in the Chamber, as well as the statement by Mr Kaikkonen, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. When it is said that these are questions of war and peace, it is important that Parliament ensure that the highest body of Finnish democracy is involved in assessing what the government is doing. It is not all about the details, it is about this big line, and it is important to see whether the whole Parliament has committed itself to what the government has announced so far, also considering that this is not a unique case. It is very possible that these will come forward after this, and then the fact that Parliament knows what is being done and also accepts the decisions that have been outlined in the government in cooperation with the President is of great importance. I therefore have the courage to make a wish to the chairman of the committee that I think it would be the right way for the government to come to Parliament on its own initiative on such a big issue, rather than for the committee to have to move a matter here. That would not be in line with the authority of such a powerful issue. I would therefore like to hope that the chairman of the committee could consider making such a clear wish for the government's own-initiative action.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u102	Mr President! I would also like to take part in this debate on the French case, because it is something that comes from every one of us when we go there to talk to people. The question is what is the Finnish line here and what is meant by it, what is it? That is why I think it is extremely important that Mrs Heinäluoma specifically raised the question of the possibility for Parliament as a whole to be informed about the Finnish line and then to hold the debate on that basis. And when Mr Kaikkonen has already asked me if there is a need, I would also like to confirm for myself that there is a need. I think it is very important and important that the government, on its own initiative, should provide Parliament with this information as a matter of urgency. I think it's very important. And now that you are there in the committee, according to the chairman, Minister Soini is visiting on Friday, I hope that this wish will be strongly expressed there and this debate, which Mrs Heinäluoma rightly raised here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u103	Mr President! I would now like to clarify to Mr Heinos that, of course, international law must be respected, of course the key to ending sanctions policy in Russia is in Russia's hands. But I have the courage to say in this debate, however, that something is very wrong if there is no trust of any kind or a clear, deep dialogue between the EU and Russia, for example. Then those keys will stay in the pocket of the Russians, and they will not abide by the Minsk Accord. That is just what I meant by this speech: we must now look at the attitude of Russia towards this and at what it is about, and so on. We need to have a deeper and more diverse dialogue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u104	Mr President! Mr Heinonen rightly highlighted the EU's obligation of solidarity and equity, and one major element here is the common commercial policy. We are well aware that the EU's sanctions are common, but we members of the Economic Committee, for example, on the German journey last year, found that many EU countries still trade with Russia, in fact through the Eurasian Customs Union. After all, this customs union includes three countries: Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan. For these reasons, Belarus, among other things, has become one of the world's leading exporters of dairy products. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, whether you have had this question on your trip to Brussels, and if not, will you discuss with your colleagues from the EU countries this very interesting phenomenon in terms of trade policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u105	Mr President! After all, throughout its history, the European Union has evolved through crises, and it remains to be seen in history what a big corner these events in Paris were to the European Union and its security policy dimension. Indeed, this French request for assistance was of great importance in that they specifically called for Article 42.7, that is to say, aid rather than this solidarity clause. This has never been activated before. In this respect, Mr President, I am in favour of Mr Heinäluoma's idea and strongly support Mr Kaikko, and I welcome the fact that Mr Kaikkonen and Mr Kanerva have taken this idea on board. Having had the strength of a small country in Finland because we have sought a broad consensus on key foreign and security policy policies, I dare now say and go a little further here that I would welcome not only information from Parliament in one way or another but also support for its policy on the activation of this aid clause.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u106	Mr President! I am skiing the same track as Mr Skinner raised and, in a way, the question here for the leaders of the Committee on Foreign Affairs — as it was said here: have we in Finland calculated an indirect impact assessment? In this trade policy, we can easily see what sanctions have done and, as Mr Skinner said, Belarus has become one of the biggest dairy producers, and especially exports to Russia suck. I am concerned that in our everyday lives we cannot judge what it means for example for Wärtsilä in this country when a ship is made in Korea. What are the US sanctions against the banking sector, which affects Europe and has a major impact on the Finnish shipbuilding industry, while the Korean ship is still 40 per cent made in Finland? What does the impact on Finland and Finland's economy and our industries in terms of banks and finance mean? In a way, we should ask this question and bring it to this debate, expand this view so that, for example, does the OSCE have the opportunity to open this debate, which are the indirect effects of different countries, what it means for Finland. However, we are the focus of Arctic expertise that also takes engines to the Korean vessels that are needed. Many projects are currently on the Russian side, so to speak, when there is no funding for the banks and there is no possibility of carrying out these projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u107	Mr. Speaker! Of course, financial sanctions have been used repeatedly throughout history. In Europe's recent history, we remember, they have been used, in the Middle East they have been used, in the Balkans, now in Ukraine, wherever they are. Of course, now that the EU has imposed sanctions, it is clear that the philosophy of these sanctions is being adhered to, but while the EU is also considering its own foreign policy strategy, its global strategy, it is worth considering that we are going through the positive and negative effects of such sanctions, the impact they have on the economy and the impact they have on security and foreign policy. That is why today's last debate has been about whether it is wise – as it is – for Finland to take up this issue within the framework of the European Union, in the context of a debate within the EU on the reform of the foreign policy strategy. In this respect, economic sanctions from Ukraine and the reform of the EU strategy are very distant from each other. The only way for Finland to act and the only way for the EU to act is, of course, to move forward with sanctions and thereby dismantle them when the Mins agreement is being implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u108	Mr President! Trade policy has, of course, been on the committee's agenda, but let's still take a look at what Mr Skinner and Mrs Myllykoski said, that there has not been a more thorough and detailed assessment of these things in themselves, so I am sure that this is worth working on for the tipper too — I think it is a bit of a matter for other committees. As far as this request from France is concerned, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has responded so much that when this request for assistance came in the autumn and the government promptly informed the committee that this sort of thing has come, and the government said that it would welcome this and will report on these more specific measures later, then the committee had no comment on this policy, and this in itself was the committee's unanimous position that it was promised to take part in the negotiations. But since then, this thing has still lived. But like I said, we can go back to this. There is still this issue of allowing military aid to be given, certainly with some rather strict criteria and consideration. This is the kind of information I have received from the government that this bill could come to Parliament in April with these prospects.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u109	Mr President! Here Mr Kaikkonen, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, said that this policy of sanctions falls within the remit of many committees. In due course, it has been agreed between the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the large committee that sanctions policy as such falls within the remit of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. A year ago, for example, a hearing was held with a large committee, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, in which the impact and scope for action of this sanctions policy was discussed in great detail at the time, and I am sure that this type of debate would still be appropriate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u110	Mr President! This has been an excellent and useful debate, starting with the situation in Ukraine, the role of the OSCE and also the importance of complying with the Minsk Agreement. After all, Finland has, you can say, a centuries-old tradition of legalism in dealing with matters. We are well known in the world for the fact that when we commit ourselves to an agreement, we will abide by it and expect others to comply with it. It is part of our identity, and every foreign decision-maker and anyone who deals with us knows that it is an important part of Finnish politics. The Minsk Treaty is a good example of this, that once something has been committed, everyone is allowed to expect that they will act accordingly. It is the basis for relations between states: if you break up, you fail to do so, others have the right to intervene. And that is, in fact, the central philosophy of the OSCE. I will come back to this question of France, which, after last December, has really raised an amazing amount of debate. But when you look at what France calls for in the EU Treaty, this is a very strong text, ladies and gentlemen, this article called the mutual assistance clause: 'If a Member State is subjected to armed attack on its territory, the other Member States will be obliged to give it assistance by all means at their disposal in accordance with Article 51 of the UN Charter'. It is a very strong statement that will have a very big impact on Finland and also on our interests, what we can expect ourselves if a similar situation occurs. It is also necessary for this to be dealt with properly, in the right way, and for the whole of Parliament to be involved when it comes to the operation of this type of article, and I think it is important for Parliament itself to take care of its own role in constitutional matters and in the management of foreign policy and security policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u111	Mr President! This last argument of Mr Heinäluoma was also important. There are quite a lot to think about here, because this clause is actually being used and tested for the first time, and now there are certain procedures that may perhaps arise further into the future. I hope, of course, such clauses do not often need to return or interfere, but it can not be ruled out in this world, of course. For example, it is worth discussing the mechanics of the aid that will then be agreed upon. After all, France itself has now been coordinating bilateral discussions with the various EU countries, which is what aid is, and this aid seems to be becoming quite different for the various countries. And the EU is in fact less coordinated, and France has a rather large role to play in this case. But, President-in-Office, I can smell that the debate is beginning to take place in this regard, and I would like to express my personal satisfaction that these reports will stimulate a good foreign policy debate in this Chamber. I have been involved in these reports over several years, and today's debate on both quantity and quality has reached the top of a few years.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u112	Chairman! Even with the risk that the general rating will fall, I will stand up to talk about the same thing, but to say that the European Union does not actually have a mandate to act on this issue. Paragraph 42.7 In the Treaty of Lisbon, negotiations between two countries will have to have a future impact. What will be the outcome of that negotiation is the one that will be applied in it. Brussels is not the one who is conducting, or even coordinating, these negotiations or has its own decision-making powers in this matter. I also share Mr Kaikkonen's view that it is in Finland's interest to look very carefully, very thoroughly and with time what will be the frame in which Finland will now take part. It is a major political issue of course — and on the basis of one case it is not allowed to make a final decision on this issue, because this actually applies to Finland’s ability to accept aid and to provide it in balance with other European Member States — whether a narrow interpretation or a broad model is taken. In view of the help we have received, I myself would like to take into account the fact that it is not our interest to go on a very narrow footing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u113	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on UaVM 1/2015 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u114	Mr President! In 2014, the range of topics discussed by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was very broad and at the same time challenging. The recent much-spoken takeover of Crimea by Russia also put the Council of Europe in a serious situation. As a protest against Crimea's takeover, the General Assembly decided to remove the right to vote from the representatives of Russia in the General Assembly until the end of 2014. The detention of the right to vote has then been continued, and the situation in Ukraine was raised in 2014 at every session of the General Assembly. In 2014, I myself was a member of the Finnish delegation of the Council of Europe as an alternate, but then as a member of the Committee on Culture, Science, Education and the Media, in which the free media, freedom of expression and the Internet were particularly much spoken. During that period, I prepared a report, which was adopted in April 2014, and the report dealt with the right of everyone to access the Internet. A few words here about that report: Access to the Internet is a fundamental right. International experts have said that it is part of freedom of expression, but when it comes to services, it can also be interpreted as being part of other rights, such as the right to private life. Access to the Internet also plays an important role as an educational tool. Internet communication is growing at a considerable rate and is still changing our societies. If we want to strengthen democracy by increasing electronic means of influence, we must ensure that citizens also actually have access to and use these services. My report reminds us, among other things, that, while the public administration transfers its services to the Internet, it must also ensure access to the Internet for all. Otherwise, equality will not be achieved and inequality will only increase. By restricting access to the Internet, people's access to society is restricted. Therefore, governments and private service providers are obliged to avoid restricting online content unless the content is illegal. States must develop Internet infrastructure to ensure equal access for all to the Internet. This will be achieved by updating legislation and by increasing cooperation with private and public actors. More research and international cooperation are also needed. As part of the preparation of this report, I, in cooperation with Riikka Koulu, researcher at the University of Helsinki, prepared recommendations to the Member States of the Council of Europe to ensure the availability of the Internet. All interested parties in the Member States of the Council of Europe were able to participate in the report. My report suggests, among other things, that the Member States of the Council of Europe ensure net neutrality and increase cooperation with private service providers so that citizens can have affordable and effective access to the Internet. This report was therefore adopted at the Council of Europe meeting in spring 2014, and although this report has now been adopted, it is important to continue to monitor closely the progress of these objectives. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u115	Mr President! Although I did not come to the Finnish delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe until 2015, I thought I would complete and continue a little bit of what Mr Pelkonen was talking about. Indeed, the same concerns that have already been expressed from the OSCE point of view are very much on the agenda of the Council of Europe, and developments in particular towards Russia have been challenging. The last time this year, the Russian delegation left its own credentials unchecked so that their voting power could not be blocked, as has been the case in the past. Also, when we talk about media transparency, we are also in the midst of topical questions in Finland. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has just discussed the situation in Poland, for example, and decided to await an EU Commission report before further action is taken. In Finland, this is linked to the ongoing study on the future of YLE, and we should therefore be vigilant when considering YLE's future, that we will certainly continue to meet all the various recommendations of the Council of Europe on this issue. Otherwise, the debate in the Council of Europe has been very similar to that in connection with the refugee crisis, for example, but with concern, I have noticed that, for example, the increase in the volume of voice across Europe is also strongly reflected in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I wish that: Finland would further strengthen its position in the Parliamentary Assembly and strive to become an active bridge builder. Although the role of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has been somewhat reduced in recent years in world politics, I would say that it is a forum that we should take a little more advantage of from Parliament. Of course, we in the delegation have the most essential work to do on this, but I hope that the parliamentary groups will also be activated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u116	Mr President! For decades, the Council of Europe has really done an extremely valuable and important job. It has been a body that has tied European countries together, including the peoples, through a common basis of values. This value base includes civil rights issues and respect for civil rights, the possibilities for NGOs to operate, the monitoring of elections and also the free media. In all these matters, we must be open and ready to say what we are doing and, at the same time, that this commitment to these European values and to the Council of Europe documents or declarations is genuinely valid. The Council of Europe is now in the same position as the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly with regard to the difficulty of this dialogue. When we disagree — which situations will continue to exist, hopefully not as serious as those related to this Ukraine and Crimea case — then the question is how can dialogue be made possible in order to seek a solution. We know this decision of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Finland that Finland concluded that the President of the Duma was not given a visa to arrive here. Then we know that, following the vote in the Council of Europe, it has been decided to refuse the mandates of the Russian Duma delegation, both as regards the General Assembly and the committee work. When Mr Pelkonen referred to these reasons for the decision above, I would ask the Finnish members of the delegation present: How do you think we're going to go from here? Is it possible to restore the credentials of the Russian delegation, their rights, once the Crimea has returned to Ukraine, or are there any other conditions required to ensure that this normal situation and the meeting of delegations within the framework of the Council of Europe can take place? It is important that Finns, including Finns, who represent the whole Finnish Parliament there — not as individuals, but as individuals, but as a little wider representative of their own political groups by means of a mandate from the Parliament — have a view of how, when the problem has arisen,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u117	Mr President! I don't know if I can offer you any wisdom or guidance, but I can offer you an up-to-date review at least. After all, Russia has a back door open as far as their credentials are concerned, in that the next time the Duma elections take place in Russia, the credentials can then be resubmitted if necessary, or so I understood. But the real question of how to deal with Russia in the future seems to be open in the whole way. The Ukrainians are active in the Council of Europe and their position is very clear and enjoys broad confidence. From the point of view of the individual representative, this issue has even to some extent been swept under a number of current everyday political issues. Mr Heinäluoma is quite right that a solution should be found, because if we really want to find this crisis and the conflict that is going on in Eastern Ukraine, some sort of lasting solution, we need all the dialogues that we can hold at the negotiating table in every possible forum.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u118	Mr President! I would like to see a return to this and that our delegation from the Council of Europe, for its part, should develop some ideas on how to move forward. It appears that Russia has now taken a decision that it will no longer pay the full contribution of the Council of Europe, which will cause a considerable gap in the budget of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and hence in the practical activities. Of course, if they do not have the right to vote and thus have no influence, it may be difficult to make demands to have full membership fees paid. But either way, we are beginning to have practical effects here, and then we have traditionally had ideas, both in the OSCE and in the Council of Europe and in the UN, to think about how to solve these problems. Maybe we should start working on those ideas now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u119	Mr President! I'll fill it out. Indeed, Mr Heinäluoma expressed opinions on which I fully agree, and that is how we should proceed, and this is certainly what the delegation is thinking about. When we talk about conflicts that are at risk of being frozen, there are also many or at least a few frozen conflicts in the territory of the Member States of the Council of Europe. It reminds me, for example, of the conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh between Armenia and Azerbaijan, which still exists and has not in fact been frozen, but nevertheless both sides are members of the Council and they are even discussing it, if not among themselves, with others. In this way, I would suggest that some kind of work model should be found, as Mr Heinäluoma said, because the Council of Europe has faced similar situations in the past, not with a country the size of Russia.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u120	Mr President! We are at the very heart of these parliamentary bodies, and each has a little culture of its own. I have noticed, however, that at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe a very important role, not a decisive but very central role, is played by the attitude of the political groups, the arrangements that are being made there, the orientations that are taking place there as regards, among other things, the issue of Russia's power of attorney in this debate. Of course, the stronger the activity of these political groups, the more intensive it is, the less oxygen will naturally remain in the national delegations' own policies, and in translation. But I have to say that, despite good efforts, I am not quite aware of the positions of the Finnish delegation on this issue either, because if Finland wants a high profile or a significant hold on these issues, it can also be that if Finland has good homework and has been well prepared politically, then Finns can certainly influence in their own way the positions taken in those political groups, both in the EPP Group and in the Socialist Group and in the ALDE Group.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u121	Mr President! As a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I do attach great importance to it. In the prevention and management of these European crises and solutions, it is important to have parliamentary contacts, and I believe that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is one of the most important. It is hoped that this dialogue will be restored in the future. It may be one way to solve these inflamed situations in Europe, at least I do not think it will be a problem. Instead, if Russia continues to break away from the Council of Europe, then it may well also have an impact on the human rights situation in Russia, and not necessarily on the better side. This view should also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u122	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the UaVM 3/2015 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u123	Mr President! The history of Nordic cooperation is long, and the result of this cooperation has been a wide variety of benefits. Cooperation with Nordic neighbours has received much attention, understanding and support in recent years, and much is still happening in Nordic cooperation these days. The Finnish Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers began in January of this year, and in January the Finnish Presidency of the Nordic Council will begin. We can really make a strong contribution to shaping and creating a common Nordic agenda. Finland will host meetings of the Nordic Council group presidents and committees here in Parliament last week. 2016 is a significant year due to the fact that in January it was exactly 60 years since Finland participated in the Nordic Council for the very first time. In 1956, therefore, the Finnish delegation took part in its first Council meeting. That is why a separate joint assembly was held last week in Parliament, with the aim of taking account of this important milestone in the history of our country. The Nordic Council is actively working on a number of topical themes. As stated in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Nordic cooperation and cohesion are important for Finland and Finland's security. Finland’s Nordic identity remains an invaluable cornerstone of Finland’s international position. Its security policy importance has become clearer in the light of recent events, such as the Ukraine crisis. The Nordic Council actively seeks to strengthen the Nordic perspective of foreign and defence policy. The Council will discuss this issue with the foreign ministers of the Nordic countries at informal meetings held at Council meetings. The Nordic Council organises annual round tables on Nordic defence policy cooperation. The involvement of parliamentarians in strengthening the Nordic foreign, security and defence policy is important and this should be further strengthened. Another important issue is the synchronisation of the work of the national parliaments and the Nordic Council, i.e. the use of the work of the Nordic Council in these national parliaments and how, for example, to get parliamentary work to support the work of the Nordic Council. The delegation has raised the debate that, for example, the recommendations of the Nordic Council should be discussed and communicated to the committees. Similarly, the exchange of information between the various committees, in particular the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Finnish delegation of the Nordic Council, other than during the examination of this activity report, should be improved. The Council's recommendations for last year have now been sent to all the representatives and all the committees. The delegation hopes that these recommendations will be discussed by the committees. The Nordic Council is active at international level. The Finnish delegation has extensive and active international cooperation: cooperation with Russia, the Baltic States and Belarus. The Nordic Council has new updated Russian guidelines. Within a year or more, the delegation has organised a conference for young Russian and Nordic politicians in Oulu, and in February last year the delegation hosted a study trip between the Nordic Council and Russia. The delegation, together with the Arctic delegation, hosted the Barents Parliamentary Conference in Parliament last September. It is important to be able to continue this cooperation in the future, and indeed, although Russia still does not and does not continue to be part of the Nordic Council, at this level we have been able to maintain this cooperation and a joint debate, even though it has been a little more difficult in the Council of Europe. Mr President! Just as the report states, the Nordic countries form a community that has a lot in common, including values, policies, history, tradition and even cross flags. The Nordic countries are bound by a sense of community, mutual trust and well-consistent interests. This strong cooperation we will actively participate in the Nordic Council
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u124	Mr President! Let's go back a little bit to that year of 2014, the Nordic Council report to that year. As in the previous two delegations' discussions, Russia will also be strongly raised here in 2014 by the Nordic Council. Traditionally, security and foreign policy were not so much discussed in the Nordic Council. Only since the beginning of this decade has it started more, especially since, at the initiative of Finland in 2013, these round table discussions began, by our former Minister of Defence, Carl Haglund. Indeed, in 2014, Crimea was taken over, and then the Nordic Council, together in the April thematic session, immediately made a glaring statement towards Russia and condemned it immediately. Perhaps for this or other reason, Russia responded to this by considering that the Nordic offices in St. Petersburg and Kaliningrad were spy agencies, and they then partly shut them down, and the Nordic Council also had to put an end to these activities once and for all. After all, the Nordic Council has played a role in the independence of the Baltic States in the early 1990s, and that is how we also have offices in the Baltic countries, such as Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, which were also in Kaliningrad and then in St Petersburg. So the role of these agencies for the Baltics was to support their own democratic development and independence at the time of the early 1990s, and it has been done until these days. However, the role of these agencies and whether we need to have so many offices in that direction and also to strengthen their existence have been considered. Similarly, there has been a debate about the Nordic countries in relation to the EU: the Nordic countries should also have an office towards the EU and seek stronger cooperation. This cooperation with the Nordic countries in the EU was also highlighted in 2014, i.e. the way in which we implement, or implement, EU legislation, and secondly, how the Nordic countries, together, could take a more proactive stance on provisions such as those coming from the Commission. For example, in the context of agriculture, energy, forestry, environmental protection and many things, we must: We are very united in the Nordic countries and we also look at industry from a point of view, such as forestry policy. This became a strong point, and perhaps this is the way to seek opportunities for this future EU office. I think it was a camel and coffee comparison in 2013 or 2014, which described that quite a lot of things would take a long time before they were completed or produced in the Nordic Council of Ministers, it is said, a proposal to the Council of Ministers, and then the reforms started. In 2014, there was a significant start to these reforms, in 2015, and in fact, at the beginning of 2016 when the formal sitting was held here, we had this smaller number of committees and also these presentations were perhaps more flexible, and the dialogue is better. I chaired the middle groups between 2014 and mid-2015. They were just wondering what the role of PN is, whether it is a dialogue or whether it is a decision-making machine, and it is both of them. We have very similar ideas in the Nordic countries with different political organisations, and it is important to highlight them and also to develop a family of closer Nordic cooperation. I agree with this motion from the Committee on Foreign Affairs on how we would engage in a stronger dialogue. As the current chairman of the delegation, Juho Eerola, put it there, the way in which we would bring those things here from the Nordic committees to our parliamentary committees and get some sort of grip or dialogue with them is very important. In particular — at least when I represent the Committee on Economic Affairs, economic affairs also at the Nordic Council at the moment — that dialogue would be very important. One example of this in the Nordic Council was the consideration of the sulphur directive in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, for example, and this was for everyone. A very important point for the Nordic countries. The Finnish representatives, e.g. Eero Suutari, played a very heavy role in this process when these reports were made. But as has been said, we had a good sitting — Finland 60 years in the Nordic Council — a couple of weeks ago. The work of the Nordic Council will evolve. I see that there is room for improvement, but we need this community.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u125	Mr President! Mr Eerola, chairman of the Nordic Council delegation, rightly pointed out the importance of closer cooperation between these committees and national cooperation. Although we are now talking about 2014, the year 2015 when I myself started as a member of the Nordic Council delegation in Finland was very exceptional in many ways. A lot happened around the world, a lot we had no idea. This is why I see Nordic cooperation as a very big issue for Finland at the moment. However, it is not a matter of course. In fact, Nordic cooperation must be carried out all the time, every day. We also have a lot of big strategic issues in common, and as one of us, I would like to highlight the northern issues, namely the Arctic dimension. In addition to this, energy policy, as we have seen in recent days, is not only within Finland's borders, but also includes what is happening in Sweden, Norway and Denmark, including Russia. The new committees have also brought a lot of opportunities. The Committee on Growth and Development, if it so wishes, can have a lot of influence, hopefully also at national level. All in all, we need to find Through the Nordic Council, a closer national co-operation and a common vision is what we really want to do. This applies not only to industrial policy, but also to the environment and also to foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u126	Mr. Speaker! After listening to the speeches of the gentlemen, I stayed here to reflect on the feelings of yesterday afternoon. Yesterday, the President of the Republic expressed his view on how to deal with immigration issues. It is very difficult for me to find a group of countries anywhere in Europe that would be easier to find common policies with regard to immigration. However, in a situation where Denmark sometimes goes behind the back of Norway, Sweden behind the back of Norway, every Nordic country takes a little action in a way that does not seem reasonable, coordinated and comprehensive. If the Nordic Council wants to do what Mr Eerola has said here, then Mr Skinner spoke thoroughly and many others here that the PN should act quickly, efficiently and in everyday life, then let us take a test. Mr Eerola, let's try this: get the Finnish delegation together tomorrow. Together, consider that the Finnish delegation will quickly take the initiative that the Nordic countries will quickly implement common practices in the field of immigration policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u127	Mr President! That is right, what Mrs Kanerva has said here. During the past year and during this year, the most frequently discussed topic in the Nordic Council is this immigration, and in all speeches, almost all speeches, the need for an immigration policy to be coherent in all the Nordic countries has been highlighted. It is not possible to create a situation where there are looser and easier practices in one Nordic country than in another, but in all In the Nordic countries, we need to have an immigration policy that is as tight and strict as it is, so that no Nordic country becomes easier to obtain residence permits than another country, which then leads to a situation like this one, which unfortunately was seen last autumn when people came through Denmark and Sweden. But here too, at the Icelandic session in Reykjavik when we were,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u128	Mr President! I have to say that Mr Kanerva did hit the nail in the head. Thus, in the midst of all these difficulties, if some of the Nordic countries were to seek common positions here — very similar societies, very similar labour markets, very similar human rights standards and concepts. Mr Lindtman, in one of his speeches earlier outside this Chamber, when Parliament was not meeting, pointed out that a common Nordic asylum policy should be established. For some strange reason, governments do not now seem able to put this issue on the agenda. For that purpose, there is a clear need for parliamentarians, that is to say, I agree with Mrs Kanerva's wish that the Finnish delegation from the Nordic Council should take the initiative here and start building a debate in the direction of the other Nordic parliaments, so that this is included in the Nordic Council's agenda and one of the subjects of Nordic cooperation. It'll take some time, but if we're stuck here, here it comes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u129	According to the list, it would appear that Mr Savola had asked for the floor. I was a little confused about which one he meant, the actual or the reply. — The reply, Mr Savola.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u130	Mr President! This proposal by Mrs Kanerva can certainly be fully supported. We have been plagued by very big problems and we are still on this issue of immigration. In the Nordic countries — where, for example, as Finland, we have now had to be under the shadow of Denmark and Sweden, perhaps at a bit of mercy, how their own practices work, how they have brought us or have not brought asylum seekers — there is absolutely a need for discussions, and I am encouraging the Nordic Council delegation and Mr Eerola to take up this motion by Mrs Kanerva and make a strong contribution to it. I believe that these discussions are increasingly needed as spring approaches, and it is assumed that if we do not bring about change at European level, there will be even more asylum seekers coming, as well as with regard to the eastern border, there will also be a need for joint Nordic discussions and efforts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u131	At the moment, three replies, Mr Pirttilahti, Mrs Myllykoski and then Mr Eerola, will be placed on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u132	Mr President! This is a very important proposal from Mrs Kanervalta, and at two separate meetings this issue has been discussed at various levels, i.e. in the Nordic Council's own party groups, and proposals, initiatives, written questions have been made. But what Mr Heinäluoma actually referred to is the way in which the Council of Ministers is going to take the matter forward, whether we, through the Nordic Council of Ministers, are getting the pressure on the Council of Ministers, that governments then take these matters on their own agenda and are really serious about taking them forward. But I believe that there too... At least it has been a good spirit among these cooperation ministers to take this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u133	Mr President! In order not to pass out on these praises now, I must say that very well understood and well challenged here at the Nordic Council's beak man-Eerola. In my opinion, this debate is now at the very level that it should be. We are kind of depending on individual politicians or on the President’s speeches to discuss this issue. This was a very good, constructive proposal which must definitely be taken forward, because I believe that the very fact that Finland is the active party in challenging other Nordic parliaments is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u134	Mr President! As chairman of the Finnish delegation to the Nordic Council, I welcome with great gratitude the lunches I have received here. Those who have followed my work in the Nordic Council may have noticed that I have tried there to promote a common, strict asylum policy, so that no country would be different from the group, but that the practices would all be the same. And now it feels very good that the Finnish Parliament will have such broad support for this, and I promise to take this matter forward — thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u135	Mr President! I do not hope that the chairman of the delegation will take up this interpretation in the way you have just pointed out. Let us start building a common policy, not that the chairman of the delegation here defines Parliament as saying that we must take a certain line in the Nordic countries, but that we must now find a builder — not by defining what we need to have in the Nordic countries, but by now we must have a game-opener and take the role of builder and not bring our own political agenda in such a way that only they try to take it forward and do it in the name of the Finnish Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u136	Well, perhaps those on the actual list of speakers will be able to wait. I have a few answers here. First up, Congressman Myller.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u137	Mr President! Of course, it is clear that when we start applying for a common policy, we do not decide in advance what the outcome is, but we discuss how the common policy is to be implemented. We have human rights agreements, we have refugee agreements, we have the principles of the European Union and so on. There will certainly be a policy that suits all the Nordic countries and which it is good to follow.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u138	Mr President! As a member of the Socialist Group in the Nordic Council, I would say to Mr Eerola that we certainly need to look for the common vision, but, as has been said, we cannot determine in advance what it will be like. Finland is only one member of the Nordic Council. We have Sweden there, with its own views, Denmark, Norway and Iceland. This is work for all of us and, as usual in the negotiations, it is worth consulting all the parties first.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u139	Mr President! The Chairman of the Finnish delegation of the Nordic Council, Mr Eerola, is very constructive and I believe that he will be able to push this very important issue forward nicely and this cooperation between the various countries in this immigration policy will make progress. There are criticisms and demands that he may be able to do so, but hopefully these speeches will be sidelined and constructively continue this debate and we will take this issue forward. Eerola will consider this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u140	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u141	Mr President! It is good that the Nordic Council raised the issue of Sweden's admission of asylum seekers to Finland last summer, and in that respect too, measures were introduced to control the Tornio border. For this, thank you, Mr Eerola, and others who will be active in the future. Such a phenomenon would have been likely to undermine confidence between our countries. In that situation, cooperation would have been at risk anyway if this had not been controlled. It is important to note that awareness of the asylum crisis has also arisen in other Nordic countries. Action has been taken to tighten practices. I would prefer to be ahead of us on this point. At the moment we are, in fact, even falling short of Denmark's brilliance. Mr President! I encourage the government to table proposals for Parliament to decide on these matters. Finland decides on its own asylum regulations, not Denmark or the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u142	Mr President! The Nordic Council is an important forum for this interparliamentary debate, and I must say that it is now at the end of the last period and when this period came, cooperation between the committees has also improved. I am speaking specifically from that point of view of the Committee on Defence. Of course, there is now talk of deepening defence cooperation in the rest of the world: joint procurement of materials, joint training, partial finding of cost savings, but also of finding a common, strong defence of the country, helping one another and sharing the picture of the situation, finding a common entity between the two militarily non-aligned countries in this Baltic region. I believe that this Nordic Council has certainly had an impact, and you have had these parliamentary debates there, which has brought about these Hanaholmen debates, among other things, for us here in Finland. The Committee on Defence is going to the Swedish Riksdage to meet colleagues. It has also made it easy for us to discuss and share the situation picture of what is going on in the NATO debate when, among other things, we are with Mrs Kanerva and Mrs Heinäluoma in that NATO parliamentary delegation. And now that this NATO survey is being carried out both in Finland and Sweden, I would like to see such an agreement, or rather the sharing of a situation picture, found that we would go in the same direction between countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u143	Mr President! On a regular basis, this debate on the situation in Nordic cooperation has been held and specifically here in Parliament in connection with this delegation's report, and it has often come to the conclusion that something new or more is needed for this, or that it is slightly stagnating. Two new areas where much more can be done between the Nordic countries than is currently being done have already been mentioned. One concerns defence and security policy and the other concerns these immigration issues. With regard to defence and security policy, it took years to get it moving through the debate. The year 2007, the beginning of the year, was crucial when the Nordic Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Defence decided at a meeting here in Finland to start developing joint Nordic thinking in the area of defence and security policy. Of course, from a historical point of view, that period from 2007 to today is not very long, eight years, but of course it seems to us that it will take a long time. At the moment we are in a situation where it seems to mean a great deal for Finland and Sweden, but I believe that the cooperation and discussions that have taken place within the Nordic Council have been an important part of the creation of political support for this project. Last season, as a result of the joint statement by the Presidents of the Nordic Parliaments, all Parliaments specifically addressed foreign and security policy issues at their parliamentary session for Nordic cooperation. It was part of the creation of legitimacy, the creation of national acceptance, for this intensified Nordic cooperation. It would indeed be quite bizarre now if the Nordic countries did not tackle this challenge of refugees and immigration by creating common practices. That would be in the interests of all the Member States. It would also be the expectation value of citizens for the Nordic cooperation that is being updated today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u144	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u145	Mr President! Finnish food production is very important both for the citizen and for security of supply. In Finland, the farmer is currently in quite a lot of trouble, even in quite a lot of trouble, and bureaucracy is still a very big jungle. Recently, there has been — this morning’s last one — news about the production of domestic tomato, and now that the Minister for Agriculture is here, I would like to ask this question: When a Spanish tomato is imported to Finland from the south, such as Spain, and compared to a domestic tomato, produced here, is so-called toxins, preservatives, used for plant protection, in Spanish tomatoes more than in domestic tomatoes? What's the difference, and is there a difference? We know that Finnish food is clean and often cleaner than food produced in many other countries and very safe to eat, but above all I would like an answer if the Minister is aware.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u146	Mr President! Representative Elomaa raised an important issue as such. We in the EU produce food and are on the same market, but we produce food under different rules of the game. In some countries, antibiotics can be used much more, but animal protection legislation is also quite different from what we have in Finland. Yet these products produced with different production costs are next to each other on that shelf, and the price cannot then be the same, but the domestic product is of higher quality and produced with much more ethical rules. I would also like to ask you now, Minister. The way in which we are discussing the creation of common rules for production within the European Union is mirrored also by the fact that we are holding TTIP negotiations between the EU and the United States, free trade negotiations, with regard to the origin requirements for food production, the way in which food is produced, so that, on a much larger scale, even at some level, it is possible to have the same starting points and methods of production, and thus also the same cost structure, so that the Finnish producer is able to compete in this global market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u147	Mr President! Thank you for your questions. I thought at that next point in the order of business I would make a small introduction and then we could continue the discussion. Representative to Elomaa in brief: Although we have similar EU legislation and reasonably harmonised use of plant protection products, for example, there is a great variety of farming practices. I am not going to judge the methods of other producers in other countries, but in Finnish greenhouse production the use of pesticides is extremely low. For example, the aim is to manage pest control by biological methods. As far as Mr Savola's broader question is concerned, how will relations between different production standards develop if competition is liberalised, there is a strong will in the EU to maintain the possibility that, despite the various agreements, food production can be secured throughout the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u148	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u149	Mr President! Although the evening is well along and the debate has continued, I nevertheless think it is appropriate to say a few words about this to Parliament. This is therefore a government proposal for a law on the organisation of the market in agricultural products. To put it bluntly, this means that, when Parliament has been very concerned about farmers' livelihoods and the profitability of production in many debates, this influence on the market — a few of the means at the hands of the legislators — is to strengthen the ability of producers to act together so that the market position can thus be strengthened. And this proposal now offers the possibility of producer organisations of beef and arable crops sectors that have been approved by EU legislation, which are getting an exception, as it were, that entrepreneurs can work together. It is considered neither to restrict competition nor to be prohibited by cartel regulations, but to encourage producers to operate in these producer organisations and to coordinate production, improve production efficiency and work together on the market so that this profitability can thus be improved. All in all, these are welcome amendments to the law, and when they pass through Parliament, I certainly hope that the producer field will assess these possibilities offered by the law. And I must say at this point that there is also demand for market organisations in other lines of production. For example, for fruit, vegetables and milk, we already have the possibility of setting up these market organisations, but this will continue to be extended.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u150	Madam President! I would like to ask the Minister that when this opportunity comes, what will its impact on the consumer be? Would it be possible to think that this new change could bring the market closer so that we miss a step, so that the producer gets a better price for his product and the consumer can get a cheaper price for its product if this is possible? Is it possible, in the view of the Minister, that this could improve the consumer's position and, at the same time, bring more profitability to primary production? What is the Minister's view on whether this could, in a way, have a better chance of local food business as larger organisations are created? This kind of online marketing can develop so that the customer gets a wider production menu. And what does this make possible, for example, in relation to the procurement law, is it possible for a regional organisation to be better and more able to respond to the acquisition as well, and thus perhaps the conditions of competition with foreign products could be improved, for example, in Finnish school meals, in hospital purchases and so on? In this society we want to know what our children eat, and now that our original labelling does not apply to meat products, I want to put a little bit of the Minister here, what this can mean in the whole food chain.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u151	Mr President! The Minister raised an important issue, the possibility for producers to work together in the future when domestic food is marketed — an important issue. Representative Myllykoski raised the procurement law there. I'd be paying attention to it myself. How does the Minister see whether the procurement law is currently a potential obstacle, for example when producers sell their own food, produce it directly to schools, society or then directly to consumers? Is there a chance in cooperative activities like this, could it be easier to set up cooperative companies or things like this today? Producers would form a cooperative activity in which to market. How does a minister see the possibility of such things?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u152	Mr President! There was a brief discussion on plant health and there was talk that Finland has many advantages in this regard. I myself would think that we should also improve our efforts to export food. How does the Minister see that through such cooperation some product groups could be found which create — by including in it the good impressions, for example, which relate to the clean land in which the food is produced, including the climate conditions we have, thinking of the nightless night and the amount of light that some plants receive — such a brand that we sell more than just something to eat, we sell quality, we sell special products? I personally would see that this type of cooperation with producers and the processing and marketing organisation, coupled with it, could, in at least some areas, increase not only the volume of production and jobs, but also this kind of recognition of the regions, even if we think of different places in the world that sell food as an area, as such.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u153	Madam President! This is a very welcome reform. However, the Finnish producer has been under great pressure for a long time, not only because of the international situation and the support policy, but because the product has not received the legitimate price that the producer deserves. We have the trade, we have the industry, then the producers that come after it. All these intermediate steps, before that food moves from the field to the shelf of the store and from there to the people's plates, take most of it, and the producer does not have the right share. A number of studies have been carried out to show that the producer's share is negligible. It is too small and this needs to be changed. I would now like to ask Mr Tiilikainen: of course, in the Ministry, you have assessed the impact, among other things, on this draft law. What would they be? What kind of message would you send to farmers regarding the entry into force of this law? How can you possibly also see the effects on producer prices and the position of producer in the future when this and these many other good legislative proposals that this government brings into force?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u154	Madam President! It is easy to join the praisers of this presentation. This has perhaps been a little more widely discussed about Finnish food. Of course, one important point is that knowledge of where food comes from would be as good as possible for people, and, of course, the origin marking of food is an important part of it. There has also been talk of procurement law. If I have understood correctly, our procurement law also gives us a pretty good opportunity to favour food produced nearby, local food, and Finnish food within the limits of the law. Unfortunately, quite often – in this Chamber too – almost all of us are municipal decision-makers – decisions are taken in municipalities and are often made in tendering only from a monetary point of view. I myself come from a municipality where competition was made in the very broad competition ring. It left me very alone in defending the criteria that would have given us the opportunity to provide local food. In the future, milk will be imported hundreds of kilometres away, hopefully not from abroad, but in any case hundreds of kilometres away or where the milk in this area goes. Of course, the environment would appreciate it, because it would have employment effects and much more, much more, that these competitions and procurements could be carried out. I am convinced that a little transported, a little packed, little preserved food is certainly more tasty for our schoolchildren and elderly people in different service homes. I would therefore like the ministry to be able to find, for example, municipalities or regions where such smart procurement decisions have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u155	Madam President! As chairman of the local food club, I would like to say that it is very important that these public food supplies are brought up, and remember, all those present here have prepared a Council initiative to ensure that public food procurement can be competitive in a sustainable way. So it is a back-up decision at the Council level, which is needed first, that these buyers can have a back-up, and then there is the way in which this is done without market law, when only the will is there. And there is good reason for it, because money is circulating nearby, that work and that cultural landscapes are preserved, food that is familiar and safe, and we know how it is done, and it has traceability in order and everything else. But this law on the organisation of the market in agricultural products itself. I would like to thank the Minister for his prompt departure to implement the Government Programme. This was one of the ways in which it is thought to improve the functioning of the food chain and the profitability of agricultural production. Of course, we should not expect too much of this either, but it has its place, as has been thought throughout Europe, so that the weakest link in the food chain can work together. Well, now that this cooperation can be started on the field and on the meat side, I would really like the Minister to assess where these borders are moving. Of course, cooperation has been possible without cartel legislation — for example, on the meat side, it has already been made of the type of joint collection boxes, which makes perfect sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u156	Mr President! Clean, good food is produced in Finland, and as an export product, Finnish food could be in even better condition. I'm sure there'll be a new Animal Protection Act this year. In Finland, animals are treated relatively well by producers, and this could be one possibility for this information to go better for consumers and also for foreign buyers. It would contribute to the production of food if it were known that the animals from which this food is made are well-being and that animal welfare is further promoted in Finland. I hope from the Animal Protection Act that there will be good, good improvements in this respect, but in particular this message that producers in Finland treat farm animals well, more forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u157	Madam President! Now that this animal protection has come to the fore, I would like to express my concern at the fact that the post of Commissioner for Animal Protection was not extended. I very much hope, Minister, that you will take this catch and carry on with this important task. It was a big step forward when we made it last season. It was a requirement of the SDP in the government negotiations and the government programme ended up, and this new post was created. It's very important, it's appreciated. And, of course, NGOs have been very concerned that, if this too is now being scrapped, Finland is becoming a backward country for animal protection. The second thing I want to speed up here is the reform of animal legislation that Mrs Elomaa has raised. It is very important that it should be made a strict and ethically correct law, and I really hope that it will move forward quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u158	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u159	Madam President! I agree with Mrs Eloma's idea that we treat farm animals well and we want to work in the best possible way to produce ethical, clean domestic food. Every farmer, under great pressure in a challenging economic situation, will do his best to achieve it. And it has to be said that if others in Europe were to bring their animal protection legislation to the level we already have, we would otherwise have much fairer rules of play here and bring our products to the same market. For example, we do not cut down on pigtails, as is the case in many other European countries, and all these are things that do affect the position of the producer. This should not be done — as an example I have just taken — but I would just like to emphasise that animal welfare legislation is a good example. Representative Heinose on this matter relating to the Procurement Act: This is a very important issue that we need to be able to take better account of as municipal decision-makers. We have gone to large supply rings in several areas, and too few now look at what is the degree of domesticity, or the quality factors in the purchase of food products in municipalities — just looking at the price tag behind them, and that is the wrong way. Within the framework of the current procurement law, we are able to do a great deal. Among other things, we in the Hospital District of South Ostrobothnia put this issue firmly on the table and have brought to it criteria that allow us to get traceability, quality, freshness to get near-produced products better there on the food tables of our public services — schools, nursing homes, hospitals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u160	Madam President! It's going to be a bit of a review, but once you can't keep your mouth shut, you have to talk. In this regard, however, when the committee deals with this, does the Minister have any understanding if we want to have a little wisdom in the committee in order to send a message to these possible associations, when producers make these compromises, that they should take up such market interests in these matters and bring up all the things that have been said above, that they should also encourage primary production to make those market efforts? The minister took a good stand at the point when certain shortcomings were brought into the television program, and was sympathetic to the direction when Evira went to present it that comes from such voluntary own control. I would encourage the Minister to continue to point out in the preparation of this law that, through his own actions, Finnish primary production is also best able to compete at European level, because ethics with regard to Finnish food, cleanliness are our teeth if we want to improve the position of primary production, that high-quality production can do better on the international market. It was a tragedy that the farmer, the President of the pig farm, took a position in this debate on the MOT programme that, if this is not good enough, then imports of meat must be introduced. I think that is precisely what we need to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u161	Mr President! Producer and industry organisations are familiar with oats from many countries, and I am actually surprised that, when I read this government proposal, there are several references here to this refusal to agree on the price, and yet this is like an old tradition that in some sectors this agreement on the price has been made. But certainly it cannot be prohibited to influence production volumes and this type of production, and that, of course, also reduces the risk that producers face or experience, for example, in perishable foods, vegetables and this type of food. But I would like to ask this interface, indeed, and to clarify this point. Then on what Mrs Myllykoski said in her first speech: how do you see the market changing? I believe that the online market could be one of the future markets combined with the fact that the consumer may at some point gain experience in primary production and be able to visit the farm. In fact, for example, the regional food festivals based on the entire harvest road in Åland — I do not remember exactly what the name is — are based on the fact that then, when the relationship has been established, goods are sold later, and this could then be organised more extensively. Do you see growing opportunities in this type of activity, which I think could go all the way abroad?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u162	President! A comment about Finland as a backwater of animal welfare is certainly not true. We have better regulation than the rest of the EU in these matters. In addition to this example of pig-sparing, it should be mentioned that in Germany pigs have less space available than in Finland and yet in the same market they have to compete for meat production. How do you compete if the German produces cheaper? You can't compete with ethics in that situation if you can't get money out of ethics. This is a market economy activity. In general, instead of flying meat from Brazil, Finns should be encouraged to use domestic-produced clean and ethical foods. I'm sure they won't produce it more ethically than we do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u163	Mr President! It was true, among other things, that the animal welfare organisations were concerned about the policy of this government, and it was precisely in the line of this government that the NGOs took this position, where they said that Finland was going to fall into a backward state of animal welfare, and two reasons for this: the fact that this preparation of animal welfare legislation was being undermined and the concern was whether it would be sufficiently rigorous and ethically correct, and the other was this post of the Animal Protection Commissioner, which was now coldly abolished. This can't be right. The civility of society is also measured by how it takes care of the weakest and those who are unable to speak or speak for themselves, and then these policy choices must be made in Parliament. I have always said that it is also in the interests of Finnish agriculture, that animals are treated well and ethically, because people increasingly appreciate that animals are treated well. This is a very important issue. But this backwater has something to do with this particular government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u164	Madam President! I think the most important thing for an animal is the well-being of the person who takes care of that animal. Even if we have an army of officials, it does not help the welfare of the animals as much as it does the nurse as well as she can. This is something that has been tried to secure in this government proposal — unfortunately, a temporary post had to be suspended, but so have many other posts. I would like to add a few examples of this animal welfare issue. We have chickens keeping their beaks, we have pigs keeping their tails and teeth and, in principle, all animals are given much more space than elsewhere in Europe, we are not using antibiotic growth promotions, we are banned from using hormones — I could go on with this list for a long time. We have animals and humans
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u165	I give three answers: Mrs Maijala, Mr Halmemenpää and Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u166	Mr President! This is the animal welfare situation I have to catch up with. How can one employee be hurt so seriously? So the thing is, we have farmers who really take good care of the animals. In the individual cases that have come to light, it has been a matter of the master or mistress being completely tired, so it should be a matter of concern to the farmer. Just as Mr Kalmari said, we will help these farmers and not prosecute them any further. A little more beautiful conversation and talk about our valuable working population!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u168	Mr President! I have to say at the outset that perhaps the suspension of the temporary post of the Animal Protection Commissioner was, however, laudable in the austerity measures. Of course it could have been, but I see, from the point of view of animal welfare, the changes made by this government to restrict the right to leave, in other words to maintain the ability and well-being of producers. At least I know and confess and I want to defend the position that a well-being Finnish hostess and host, a farmer, a food producer, takes care of her animals, but a weakly able and exhausted one can't take care of himself. We have quality food produced in Finland, mainly in a truly ethical and responsible way, and we must not allow its reputation to deteriorate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u169	Madam President! There is no doubt in this Chamber that of course we have to worry that the farmer and the animal keeper are doing well. That is a very important issue, and I know and fully sign that animal welfare is also dependent on this. These things aren't the opposite, are they? Yes, the art of misunderstanding was now in these speeches that came from the government parties. And I am a little concerned, Mr President, about this spirit of preparation, if it goes so that when someone raises a voice for animal welfare, it is immediately interpreted that we are against the farmer in some way, when, on the contrary, I said that good animal welfare is appreciated. But, President-in-Office, what I have brought was the concern that NGOs in animal welfare, among other things, have said that, as a result of this development, what the government is doing now, Finland is falling into a backlog of animal welfare because the office of the Commissioner for Animal Protection is being suspended, and that is what is at stake. And it must also be said that the fact that animal welfare records are completely missing in the programme of this government, unlike those of its predecessors, may have been mentioned in this press release.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u170	And then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u171	Madam Speaker! This government proposal to amend the Act on the organisation of the market in agricultural products is excellent. It is part of the work that we will do to ensure the supply of domestic food in the future. What do we, as a society, get by having our own food production, domestic food? It will give us better public health, it will give us security of supply, it will give us economic improvement, jobs, better trade and current account, and it will give us better animal welfare and environmental consideration than imported food. That is what all this domestic food brings to us. There have already been many reviews of the reasons for this. We've got traces of drugs, pesticide residue, antibiotics, hormones, nothing else. Together with Sweden, we have the world's most precisely regulated food production, the strictest food production criteria. But the problem we have is that we have a common market but different rules of the game. In other words, we have a solid agreement, including in public food, that is, in the local and state food sectors, raw materials for food which have not been produced in accordance with these strict criteria but with very different criteria, which also means that these criteria bring much, much cheaper production conditions than the Finns, and that is not fair by the way. If we and we have strict rules, they must also be strict on the market, so that the functioning of the market is fair. That's what makes it fair to be competitive. And all that Mr Viitanen and his partners have said about animal welfare is absolutely true. You have to take good care of the animals, that's obvious. Similarly, we need to invest more in exports.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u172	Representative Kalmari and then Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u173	Madam President! Just a little bit more for that animal welfare. I am prepared to discuss the welfare and development of animals with various animal welfare organisations at any time and I believe that all those who want responsible production will want to take these matters forward. But we must also remember that many organisations have the objective of stopping Finnish livestock production, and then we must understand that there is no point, there is no limit to the requirements if the aim is to stop all livestock production.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u174	Then, Minister Tiilikainen, please, for two minutes — if that is enough, a little more can go on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u175	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you for the broad debate that went a little past this bill, but it is great that Finnish food and its producers and producers, farmers, are being talked about. I will answer some of the questions which now apply precisely to this legislation. What importance for consumers, what importance for the market, many of you asked this question. This will, of course, allow producers, within the producer organisation, together, to influence the price side, but it does not mean that it will increase the price for consumers, but that this producer organisation, through its mutual cooperation, can also guarantee a level playing field, a better and cheaper supply chain for the customer, so that the cost of its food chain can be reduced, by increasing volume and by increasing the level of supply. And if the members of the producer organisation agree jointly on certain quality objectives and so on, then it can bring added value to the market. There are a lot of co-operation rings for farmers in Finland that have done so in different sectors, even if they have not applied for this official market organisation status. I myself have some experience on this subject. Well, then this relationship with the Procurement Act. Of course, associations have a better chance of offering their products, but actually the most important thing in this procurement law is what several representatives described, that when we still have this criterion and standard, especially in livestock production, in many ways higher than in Europe — it does not mean that it should not be further developed, but it is already higher — so, according to these Finnish or Nordic criteria, we should also be able to manage the competitions in order to ensure that the food that is fed to children and young people in Finland in schools and day-care centres or what is being fed to people in hospitals and old-age homes meets the high standards that the whole of Parliament is calling for here. Only then will this work when we have production and consumption playing by the same rules, and that is where the real use of the procurement law is concerned. Many representatives here, including Mr Heinonen and Mr Kalmari, have already pointed out that there are ways but that knowledge and will may be lacking. We still have to drum this thing up. These proposals, such as this online marketing or new market channels, were interesting. You know that eggs, for example, are now widely marketed in contrast to traditional routes. Perhaps this producer organisation, too, can — let us think of meat, processed meat — achieve new market channels and new producers through more common production. Perhaps it is difficult for an individual producer to go on a very large scale to use online marketing, for example. And yes, of course, this also matters if we think about cereals: if we have a cereal-producing organisation that is also able to search abroad for customers and get offers for a substantial batch of cereals, then it will certainly have an impact on the price level of domestic cereals. Let us not expect miracles from this, but this is a step in the right direction for producers to be better able to operate on the market, and often it can also be in the interests of the consumer, both in terms of quality and availability.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u176	Madam President! If I am free to interpret the Minister's message now, then you certainly meant that this will allow consumers to obtain the most advantageous foods when making such associations that allow either online marketing or otherwise that those intermediate stairs will be left out of it, depending of course on the product, how it can be placed on the market. But just a little bit more about it: is my interpretation too bold, or is it possible that this could benefit primary production, but also consumers in particular?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u177	On the agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u178	Madam President! I assumed that in this speech the Minister would also have taken a stand on this issue of animal protection, which has, however, been raised quite strongly here. For example, the representative of the Elomaan Government Party of Finland raised this level of animal protection, and we have been together for example at a meeting of animal welfare organisations where all the representatives of the various parties promised that we would work hard to maintain the post of animal welfare commissioner. Now that this is not the case and if the government does not want this matter to happen, but let it be the case, then I appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament of the Government, to be so kind as to speak seriously to your government ministers in this matter, because this is a backward step, this termination of the mandate overall. And I would also like to say to the Minister that I think it would be good if this issue were raised here so clearly that you would also take a stand on this preparation of the Animal Protection Act, the post of Commissioner for Animal Protection. And, of course, what has also been worrying the organisations is these standards that, in their name, all these things, how much space the animal must have, will begin to pinch and not to improve what the opposite idea was in the first place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u179	Mr President! Unfortunately, it is true that there are organisations in the country that want to put an end to various things here. After all, a whole citizens' initiative was collected last season to put an end to the trade, fur farming, which apparently means that there is a desire to put an end to a variety of things. I'd like to ask Mr. Viitas: How have these matters been dealt with in our rival countries? Is there a case in Germany, is there a case in Denmark, is there a similar case in Brazil, which the SDP here also offers as a solution to every issue?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u180	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for his clear speech a moment ago. This idea that there are similar conditions and requirements for the food that comes to Finland is extremely important and must be promoted. I come to another point that is important in this context and that is that in the same way we need respect for the standards of the International Labour Organisation in those countries that import products, all kinds of products, free trade. There must be certain fundamental human rights in force when free trade takes place, including the ban on child labour, the ban on the use of prison labour and fundamental workers' rights. It is exactly the same thing in world trade that Minister Tiilikainen described as being in food production and free trade.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u181	Madam President! I cannot help commenting on this issue of online marketing. After all, we have a good situation in Finland that we already have online marketing in place for individual food producers, and I would like to draw an example here: just over two years ago, from that Ostrobothnian country from where I come from, the establishment of Reko Rings, where 27000 Finns were directly connected with producers through social media a year ago. I checked that in November last year, or just less than a year later, there were already 90000 Finns buying local food directly from Finnish producers through online marketing, direct marketing. This is also an export product, it has been introduced by the idea developer from Ostrobothnia in Germany and Belgium and Stockholm. That we do have the skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u182	Mr President! I did not get a chance to ask for an answer there earlier when questions were presented to me. I specifically said in my speeches that the advantage of Finnish agriculture is that animals are treated well. We have a lot of expertise, and the fact that we have clean food, which is ethically produced, is in the interests of all of us and our competitive edge, as Mrs Leppä has also said here when she talks about animal protection. That is why I think it is important that the government should make every effort to promote, for example, organic production and the use of local food, and all of these, because I see it more so that, precisely because we have had progressive measures, such as the Animal Protection Commissioner, it improves our position and is also a competitive asset to our agriculture. That is why I do not quite understand, Mr President, why such a strange confrontation has now arisen here. Is this the time when the President mentioned yesterday that we were all barking at each other in this country, and the last time the police were barked at? It seems that this is the case here that we are then barking at each other, putting things together and misinterpreting things when it is perhaps worth focusing on how we can jointly improve our competitive edge.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u183	Madam President! I took the floor precisely because I wanted to praise Mr Heinäluoma's excellent speech. Now that food production is at stake, it is also food production that is worth paying attention to what kind of food is imported from elsewhere. In fact, if food is too cheap, it could be said that the rights of animals, the environment or people have always been trampled on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u184	Madam Speaker! It seems that we will be able to reach the end of the debate with a good consensus on this issue. What better than domestic food? We can all contribute by buying from our own countries. It is probably the case that if 10 euros were more domestic to buy everyone, it would already create several thousand jobs in the Finnish food chain. It is good that this producer organisation law on market organisation is now in force. Of course, it would take even more time to get serious about labelling the origin of food here, so that when each of us from that shelf of the store selects that food, it is clearly marked where the product was produced or when we buy a steak or other serving at a restaurant that clearly tells us in which country the food was produced. It will improve the position of all consumers, and above all it will improve our ability to make choices for Finnish quality food.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u185	Representative Elomaa, then Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u186	Mr President! This Reko ring system is very good. My brother and his brother’s wife have sold goods there online, and they say it works well and it needs to be developed. And again: we can also influence animal welfare ourselves by buying those domestic products and those ethically produced foods. In other words, when we buy them, we also have an impact on animal welfare, which is of course important to all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u187	Minister Tiilikainen, up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u188	Madam Speaker! A few comments: Mr Heinäluoma's speech was good, and Kalmari added that in general, if cheap food is available, then the rights of animals, people or the environment are being trampled on and, in most cases, quite often, all at the same time. That is why it is good that we in Finland have high standards, and they must be kept high, and I hope that in this competition we will be able to demand even better food in accordance with Finnish standards. Mr Viitanen, now that this matter has come up, I am happy to answer your question. No animal protection standards have been weakened by this government. Preparation of the Animal Protection Act is under way. The dialogue with animal welfare organisations for my part works well, no problems. Mr Myllykoski expressed a bold hope that it could be hoped that this would be reflected in the prices. Here a number of representatives — Halmemenpää and Elomaa — spoke about, among other things, these Reko-rings and online marketing. It is then, if you can get the consumer and the producer to meet each other without unnecessary intermediaries, that both will benefit most of the time. But it is also extremely laborious, because there is talk of small delivery lots, of difficult distribution, of who is seeking where and what, and then perhaps this cooperation between producers is needed in order to make sense of the permanent production system and distribution, and in the best case, both will benefit. When that consumer is directly involved with the producer, he can go to the farm to see what conditions the animals are in, and this is good. But the majority of Finnish agriculture, of course, that volume, is currently operating in the rest of the world, and I hope that this possibility of creating producer organisations will bring that negotiating power or alternative export markets, as Mrs Myller, for example, called for. In other words, at best, cooperation enables the rational management of direct sales and online marketing, or the efficiency of the production chain, or the improvement of the price obtained from the market through its co-operation. Thank you for this debate and I am looking forward to presenting the following good legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u189	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u190	Madam President! I'm trying to be tight with this amendment to the Nature Conservation Act. One of the top priorities of the government is to eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy and improve the efficiency of the public sector. This is what this bill does without compromising the level of nature conservation. For example, this reduction in the field marking of nature conservation areas: Today, in the GPS era, we are quite aware of that location when moving around the terrain. Now let's give up all the protected areas in the country. National parks, nature parks are still marked, plus areas where, for example, there is a ban on landing because of a bird nesting area. Metsähallitus estimates that this will save more than EUR 1 million in the coming years by abandoning the fact that all protected areas should be marked on the terrain. They are on the map, there is spatial information about them; GPS tells a motorist, for example, not to accidentally slip on the wrong side. Clear savings and debureaucraticism. The demarcation procedure for breeding and resting places in the Federation squirrel will be abolished. Once again, the breeding and resting places of the union squirrel are as well protected as they were before, but now the Ely Centres are no longer required to make a decision on each site. The Ely Centres continue to offer advice to forest professionals and forest owners. If you come to such a difficult situation that, although the forest professionals have been doing this for ten years, you become a target where you do not really know how to do it, you can turn to the Ely Centre, but it is not such an automatic that you always have to come from the Ely Centre to delimiter and then you make administrative decisions. Once again, bureaucracy is being removed, taxpayers' money is being saved. Here is the main thrust of this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u191	Mr President! This abolition of the restriction on the breeding and resting-place of the union squirrel is a good thing, although certainly not many citizens have been aware of such a procedure. It is known, however, that the union squirrel is a very expensive creature for Finns. One of the strangest things I encountered when I began my political career on the technical committee of my hometown was the absurdly high importance of the union squirrel in planning. It felt like the law protected almost more a union squirrel than a human being. On that basis, too, I support all the proposals to eliminate this EU-driven absurdity. The change in the field marking of protected areas will reduce the role of the authorities when the land marking is abandoned. All in all, this means savings of up to EUR 6 million, with a reduction of between 30000 km and 6000 km, with a price of about EUR 250 per kilometre. Mr President! It seems wonderful and, in some respects, incredible that the only way to achieve savings of almost EUR 6 million is to make more efficient land labelling — a considerable waste has been done in the past. The Government's proposal is both to be welcomed as a further dismantling of standards.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u192	Mr President! As far as the dismantling of bureaucracy is concerned, the environmental management of our whole system has made the best progress, so we have already made a lot of proposals, they are concrete things. But none of these proposals has at all undermined the level of protection, but has rationalised these activities, and in that way the money has been made more rationally available, which is better in line with nature conservation and not just the red tape. That is to say, we have made great strides, but we have taken very well-considered steps. We need to focus on protection that actually contributes to the preservation of biodiversity and abandon provisions that are justified by protection, which will only result in unnecessary additional work. In these matters of labelling, we have to take into account that the essential labelling remains and that the labelling that is currently there in nature is there and will remain and then only certain protected areas will not be labelled. It really does not undermine the level of protection, but it means that we have a huge number of areas protected by different regulations. This also improves our people’s view of the value of all our nature. And in addition to what we have regulated areas of protection, we landowners have, for our part, protected quite a lot of different areas, which are not officially marked by any law and do not need to be marked in nature, but we all know that there is a lot of important protected areas in nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u193	Mr President! With regard to these savings, the fact that not all nature conservation areas will be included in the terrain is a sensible destination in the age of the digital maps, provided that this information is then in these digital maps. But the government's proposal to abolish the union oriental reservations is also problematic in terms of the legal security of the logging parties. The League squirrel is in itself a political animal that evokes a lot of emotion, as has already been the case here. And there has also been an expert debate on the number of union squirrels in Finland. I understand, however, that the experts are all of the opinion that the common squirrel population is deteriorating, and that is the most essential thing to know. Nature conservation organisations have said that this is a matter of abandonment. I personally believe that this is very much a question of legal certainty. I'm afraid we're going to see cases where the living circles of the union squirrel are being hacked and then the fellings say that there was no such information. Well, the minister said that these actors have this duty of care, but then there may well be situations in practical life where these things seem much less clear in real life. I think it's bad for the union squirrel change that the government is proposing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u194	Madam President! I would like to ask Mr Hassi that when the fleet of flying squirrels was put on the endangered list, it was estimated that there were about 60,000 of them. Now there have been 286,000 of them already in 2006, and certainly the stock has gone up all the time. So on what basis is it now deteriorating so much? But as long as the union squirrel is on the list of endangered people, we have to take care of it, nothing at all, but it makes sense to do this type of action, which is what we are now doing, not to use too many shots from the authorities to make administrative decisions and then to label different kinds of ripples on the ground. I really do not think that it makes sense, and at the time of the geps, it is certainly not sensible to label these areas on the ground, all nature reserves. When there is a technique, let it be used.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u195	Madam President, Minister! At the outset, I too share these thanks for the good changes that this definitely contains. One of them is precisely this labelling of nature reserves on the ground, which is, of course, a very positive and good thing at the time of digitalisation, and it is also, above all, a source of savings, which is, of course, also a good thing. In addition, the transfer of derogations from the Nature Conservation Act to the Ely Centres makes sense, because it is the place where the best known what is happening in the regions. But I, too, express my concern about what Mr Hassi has already said, namely the change with regard to these union squirrels. In spite of this good presentation by the Minister, I still did not quite know how and by what methods these demarcation decisions would be replaced. And I would also take very seriously the concern of these nature conservation organisations that, at worst, this could also be a waste.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u196	Madam President! I'll have to thank Secretary Tiilika. Under your leadership, the debureaucratisation has indeed taken off very quickly and with a good model, and here we are now seeing these proposals which we will then discuss and try to take forward in Parliament. These are the kind of reforms that, as the famous common sense has already said, must be implemented. If we develop technology, the digital age allows us to locate nature reserves and others, then why on earth, for example, should the scenic factors go out there and put on the terrain? And it is extremely important that savings are made. We are in such a difficult economic situation in Finland at the moment that all the millions we can collect must of course be exploited. On this issue of the union squirrel, I do disagree somewhat with Mr Hass and Mr Razmyar. Yes, the union squirrel has become quite expensive in connection with various construction projects. Anyone who moves in nature and even has little to do with it will see that there are many union squirrels in this country. Although it is there, in practice and in reality it is not an endangered animal, there will be plenty of opportunities for the union squirrel to continue to live and live.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u197	Madam President! I welcome the fact that these areas of nature are being abandoned. It will save more than a million dollars, and at least I prefer to direct this money to the development of the signs and others, for example, that people can use these areas in a good and responsible way. In this debate, however, there has been a misunderstanding about the union squirrel. The Federation squirrel is no longer on the list of endangered species. In fact, we have achieved good results through these protection measures, and the plight of endangered mammals has been relieved in Finland. For example, the European beaver, the bear, the lynx and the union squirrel are no longer on these lists. They are watchful, and the situation of any species has not deteriorated. In other words, we have gone in a good direction, and it is also important to think about the fact that this decision is now simply giving up this bureaucratic administrative decision, but it is not yet relaxing this situation. The reference has been made here to the fact that we have a wide range of projects which have not been implemented with regard to the union squirrels, and I personally hope that we will also closely monitor the stage at which, in certain cases, we can even begin to introduce flexibility so that these projects can be taken forward. So the union squirrel left the list of endangered species, which means that good results have been achieved here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u198	Mr President! Of this union squirrel: The current monitoring method of the Federation squirrel is expensive and not necessarily a very functional and not an appropriate system. In other words, the funds that are being spent on this union squirrel issue at the moment can be used in a more rational way in the future. That is why I am proposing to the ministry and I hope that measures will be taken to deal with this union squirrel issue in a new way, so that this observation, where they exist, is indeed timely and updated all the time, because we are currently faced with the problem that decisions on the place of reproduction and rest for the union squirrel may have also created lengthy judicial processes during which this court-martial who was the subject of the litigation may have moved to another place of residence. So what is essential is that the union squirrels also change their place all the time, and this is where they have to live.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u199	Mr President! I would say to Mr Savola that we all agree on this issue of land marking in nature conservation areas, but instead the question of the union is another issue. It is not a question of replacing terrain marking with a digital label, but of abolishing these limits. A little misleading information on the endangered status of the union squirrel has been presented here. It's on the endangered list, but its classification on the endangered list has changed from being compromised to being kept under surveillance. I have to say that I do not quite understand this logic when the same publication states, however, that its position has decreased by 22.7%, but since it has decreased less than in the previous classification, then it has been changed to keep that classification in mind. Mr Kalmari said the figures. I myself referred to this in my own original speech when I said that scientists are arguing over these absolute figures. Really, in 2006, researchers estimate that the number is 140,000 females. However, later studies concluded that this was an overestimation, possibly up to three times overestimation, of the actual size of its position. I have understood the message of the researchers by saying that everyone is in agreement that the position has been reduced, that is, with regard to the union squirrel, we cannot by any means consider that things are well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u200	Madam President! Yes, I think there are two good proposals in this proposal and one that may not have been considered to the very end. As far as I am concerned, this demarcation decision, whatever animal or nature conservation site is concerned, is a somewhat bureaucratic and excessively cumbersome method, and I quite agree that a lighter procedure or procedure should be found. But I do not see that the government's proposal has suggested what such a lighter measure or method would be, so that it would safeguard the legal protection of the landowner, for example. I know a number of examples of the difficulties that have been encountered in my own province when there have been no demarcation decisions, and when the landowner has tried to defend himself with it, if there has been a union squirrel in his own forest, that there has been no demarcation decision, then it has been bad. But in any case, as many as 60% of these checks on the authority's terrain with regard to the union squirrel have not led to a decision to restrict itself, but to a decision not to restrict itself, so we need to remember a little of these proportions. What is then the size of the species's stock is such a nice thing to know, but it is not really decisive as to what is the endangered status of the species. And this squirrel father is an endangered species, as noted here. It hasn't left that list. It's just that the rating has changed. What is essential is the development of the position in which we are going, and that is going down. It has slowed down, it has weakened stock development, but it is still falling and it is based on the fact that the stock remains on the list of endangered species. I understand that little mammal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u201	Madam President! I still want to verify from you, because when a flying squirrel was placed on the list of endangered species, it was estimated to be about 60,000, and now, in any case, all estimates are sure that there are more than 100,000 nesting females: on what basis could that strain have been weakened? If it gets a little weaker in a single year, then I don't really understand this conversation. If it weakens even from the 240,000, I admit it, but it certainly has not weakened from the original 60,000, so I think we should consider from a cost point of view in the future that even though this is an important species, it would not be quite as absurd to make decisions as was the Turku-Helsinki motorway at the time, where 10 million were put more money because of the protection of the union squirrels. The proportions must be maintained in these conservation decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u202	Mr President! I too am a great advocate of moderation, here too. However, I would like to point out that there is no reason for us in this Chamber to engage in shoplifting and performing as squirrel experts, but, as in other decisions under good governance, to rely on the expert knowledge we have available, and that expert knowledge says: in January 2016, when this new list of endangered mammals was published, it is also stated in its report that those with a view to changing the endangered class should not, however, be interpreted in such a way that the situation of the union squirrel is improving. That is why the stock was originally estimated at 60,000 and now has more than 100,000, and it is also read from these reports that the stock size assessment methods have improved and that knowledge of the species and identification of species distribution in Finland has improved. I believe more in these expert reports.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u203	On the agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u204	Madam President! I have before me the 2015 document on the threat of mammals in Finland, and it says quite clearly here: endangered species are ripsis, small bat, wolf, nal, ferret, glutton and saima. There is no more union squirrel on this list, as you here are misconstruing that it would be on this list. It is not on this list, it is on the list of 'eye-to-eye species', which means that they have a flying squirrel, a European beaver, a field mole, a bear, an lynx, a Baltic elephant and a forest deer. Two species left the red list: the hare and the otter. In fact, one of the specialties of this whole protection is Kainuu. Who are we going to protect now? For example, the forest deer population in Kainuu has halved in the 21st century. The reason is that another species on this list, the wolf, has grown there. The question we should now ask these zealous conservationists is: are we now protecting the wolf so long that we no longer have a forest deer to protect? Or would it be appropriate to strike a balance in this conservation effort so that in the Finnish forest the fine forest deer and the wolves, where there are people, can survive in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u205	Madam President! I have to say, as Mr Haglund said earlier in this afternoon's debate in the Chamber, that he did not understand all the squirms of fiscal policy as an economist: as a naturalist, I do not quite understand the interpretation of Mr Heinonen. You, Mr Heinonen, have just listed at the beginning all the extremely endangered species in Finland and then after them the species that are kept in the eye of a long line and a little less endangered. But you, Mr Heinonen and everyone else, can check with Luke or the Finnish Environment Agency to see how this threat classification system goes, and it goes so that all these listed species are endangered, some more and some less.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u206	Mr President! I'll read directly what it says here. It says unambiguously: "There are seven endangered species, which is four species less than in the past." That is what experts say. I trust these more than you, Congressman. There's a list I just listed, the endangered species are them and they and they are, and then it's said that the flying squirrel no longer exists. You cannot do this now, Mr Commissioner, by talking red when the animal is no longer on that list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u207	And then we go to the list of speakers — from here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u208	Mr President! I am truly grateful for what Heinonen has said about, among other things, this situation in Kainuu about the forest deer, that is, what is important to us, whether it is important for us to protect the wolf or how our forest deer population survives. By the way, the forest deer population is dying of extinction, that is to say, a perfect total situation. But then let's go to this union chipmunk. Just like this interesting question came to mind that how much our nature can even carry the maximum of the union squirrels. Has the union squirrel always been in our nature such an animal of great interest? At the moment, we should be able to think about and discuss more widely the issues of protected animals, which are actually appropriate for us to protect. The debate and research alone are taking a great deal of time at the moment, and I do not know whether we have a comprehensive plan on how to move forward with these protection issues. Then we're going to assess the threat. In particular, I am interested in having other animals besides the flying squirrel, whose threat or concern should be discussed more, such as cormorants, white cheek geese and such varieties, if you wonder whether they belong to our nature and to what extent they belong to nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u209	Representative Hassi and then Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u210	Mr President! This debate has gone a long way past what this bill actually contains. This is not about zoning, and it is not about what species the legislation imposes to protect, but about the way in which the authority helps forestry operators to know how to act legally. This is getting weaker. The methods used to estimate the strain of the flying squirrel have changed, refined and developed over the years. In any event, the result of the last three stock assessments is that in the previous assessment period it was estimated that the strain of the flying squirrel has deteriorated by 30 % and has now deteriorated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u213	Let us take Mr Hoskose's speech and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u214	Madam President! I would just like to say a few words about this debate on the union squirrel. All forest professionals have completed these adequate courses of identification and how to deal with different endangered species, how to plan the stamps and so on. That's no excuse. That is exactly the same argument if we were to demand, even now, that nurses should be able to deal well with all patients in aviation accidents if such a thing ever happens to the way of life at work. It is not a reason for us to make all other measures more difficult because of one chapter. For example, I don't think anyone knows the true number of a union squirrel, which has been evaluated several times. In time, there were more than 300,000 pairs of them, as I remember, first estimates, and when these assessments are made by the parties themselves, i.e. when these various representatives of nature conservation organisations make estimates — I do not underestimate it, of course, but are in some way involved — I do not always rely on the estimates that they are right for a million. But it would be important to note that we do not overly restrict economic activity. Ilomants has a union squirrel in an area where one side has a shooting range, on the other side there is a school where 400 students go to school, on the other side there is a shooting range, on the other side there is a permanent power plant on the other side, where 24 hours of turbine roars. The Federation Squirrel is doing just fine in the middle. We ourselves have made these problems, and they are used as a political tool against ordinary people and for their property management. That's what it's really about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u215	And Minister Tiilikainen, about three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u216	Mr President! An interesting debate overall, and we will see what I can comment on. I shall begin with the concern of the chairman of the committee, Mr Hassi, with regard to this particular marking of the union squirrels. Mr Hassi is right that this labelling obligation was originally introduced in the interests of legal certainty. In this Chamber I see a number of colleagues, Kiviranta, Leppä — in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry — who once wanted this in terms of legal security. That was ten years ago. As Mr Hoskonen said, during this time the forest professionals have learned how to restrict and act on the stamps to which the union squirrels are close. And as has been said, we no longer have to go to every destination, but the Ely Centres are still obliged to give the advice if we are to ensure that there are no mistakes that Mrs Halmemenpää mentioned here. Of course, they've happened too. This does not affect the fact that breeding and resting places are still protected. And this classification of threats, which was the subject of a colorful debate: I can take comfort in the fact that both Mr Heinonen and Mr Halmemenpää, you are both quite right. I hope you also found that common note, which means that there are only different classes in the threat classification: the union squirrel has become less endangered, which means that it is now on the list of people to keep an eye on. And it would actually be nice if, for example, that environmental club in Parliament organised a basic course in ecology that would define this threat. It depends on the size of the stock, on the unity or fragmentation of the population range, on the natural rate of reproduction of the animal, and then on the evolution of the stock: whether it is decreasing or growing rapidly or slowly. So the sum of these different factors is then that classification, which is a rough indication of the situation. In that sense, a fruitful and good debate, but I urge you to go even deeper on this interesting subject. Representative Hassi took an important article on this digitalisation, as many others here referred to. Now the government is seeking not only to make forest resource information more up-to-date and electronic, but also to provide this environmental information to these same databases, so that it is known where the union squirrels are, that the information will be found on the digital maps when forest plans are being made, so that the damage will then be reduced. This is very important that this environmental information is available and not just in the way that when someone has gone wrong it is noticed that there was something there. The savings that this bill will achieve, for example, Metsähallitus will certainly need to provide citizens with recreational services in order to reduce that marking.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u217	Madam President! I will not waste our time together for further reflection on the classification of endangered species, but in order to ensure that Parliament's protocols do not leave incorrect figures on what that threat means, we, in agreement with Mr Heinonen, have said this after checking that, as listed in the Finnish Nature Conservation Regulation, we have a total of 1410 endangered species in the country, birds, mammals, everything else, and some of them are endangered in different ways, some more, some less.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u218	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u219	Mr President! I'm trying to be very quick. — — — — This is a collection of legislative proposals from several different needs in a single bundle. Two of these relate to the fact that we have had inadequately implemented EU legislation, i.e. proposals on the right to participate in complementing the implementation of the Environmental Noise Directive and so on and then proposals on the implementation of the Ship Recycling Regulation. These are just like that fine-tuned in our legislation that doesn’t need the EU to tap any more. They have little practical significance. Then this third part of this package is linked to another series of red tape dismantling. In other words, when the environmental protection law was amended during the previous government period in such a way that peat production areas of less than 10 hectares were covered by an environmental permit, unfortunately, it did a little like a retrograde thing, that those areas that were already in production were also placed on a very short schedule to obtain authorisation for their existing activities, and that is what this law is now bringing clarity and relief to. In other words, we are postponing this application period for permits for five years, when it is possible that the existing small peat production areas — if, for example, the area has been raised during the five years — will not have to go for the permit, or that the operator will have five years to decide whether or not to apply for a permit for this small area in the first place. So this is purely a question of rationalising action. New areas, small and larger, will still be subject to environmental licensing and then these development of licensing systems will be considered in future proposals. But this does not mean that the existing regions do not have to go for a permit, but that there will be a sufficiently long transition period for operators to think about what is being done in these areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u220	Mr President! This amendment to the Environmental Protection Act is extensive, but my intention was to thank Minister Tiilika for this change in the authorisation of peat production areas that are already in operation, which is likely to permanently remove this unnecessary bureaucracy when those areas are apparently to be brought to an end by that deadline. Of course, it is unnecessary to require environmental permission for such small areas in operation. It is a cost question for an entrepreneur, and the information about this requirement apparently goes pretty badly there for entrepreneurs. This deadline is now being extended to September 2020 and I hope that it will now prove sufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u221	Mr President! I am sure we can all agree that, in other respects than peat, this is clearly legislation which is very technical. But it is quite difficult to agree with this point that now that, under the new Environmental Protection Act, small peatlands of up to 10 hectares have to apply for an environmental permit for their activities, now that these operators have not been able to do so for one reason or another, then this will be extended to five years. If there is a practical issue, then perhaps it would be understood that this extension would be a year that could be applied for, and certainly would not be a very big problem if, for example, these small peat-lifting areas were very few, but if they were to form, for example, large areas of small peat-purchasing areas close to each other, how do we react to this? However, it is quite a matter of water protection, as we know, in this peat extraction. Then, of course, there is the point that the Minister has promised this to these entrepreneurs and has then been put into this legislation without any expert consultation being carried out. In other words, I ask the Minister how we are now thinking, for example, of a number of these small peat-lifting areas occurring in a river basin, and what kind of threat it poses.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u222	Madam President! Representative Myller seems to have such an area known when it appears to be such a strong example. This reform is very good and necessary precisely in relation to the authorisation of these small peat production areas. After all, it is now incomprehensible that, when there is an area in production, there would in a way be a retrospective extra payment of thousands of euros, which the entrepreneur himself has not been able to prepare for when he starts his activity. That is what this is trying to correct, perhaps even, I would say, a point of purpose which, during the previous government, had been slipped into that legislation. That amount was EUR 8040 and, for less than 10 hectares, it is practically the amount of production for the whole year, i.e. it would have stopped this production from a very large number of regions. That message has come from that circle of entrepreneurs. As far as environmental protection is concerned, yes, protection must still be in order. If mistakes have been made in the past decades, then the same mistakes must not be repeated, and therefore, in dealing with the waters of production areas, its outcome must be determined that they must be in a clean state. That is what is being done today. I would also like to ask Mr Tiilikainen that now that these licence fees have been equal, whatever the size of the neva, what changes have been made or are being made. Are we going to step up according to the size of the area?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u223	Mr President! With regard to environmental management, I will continue to applaud this dismantling of unnecessary bureaucracy, for that is indeed what this proposal is. Now, in my own speech, I would like to draw particular attention to this issue of peat, which has already been discussed. In other words, the transitional provision of the Environmental Protection Act would be amended for small peat production areas. According to the proposal, a five-year extension would be made of the deadline within which certain peat production areas of up to 10 hectares would have to apply for an environmental permit for their activities. The presentation shows common sense in the production of small peat. The application for authorisations within the time limit laid down previously has not acted in the desired manner and the information on the requirement to apply for authorisation has not been sufficiently effective. Some of the peat pickers are about to shut down in a few years. Then, by the way, peat is a slow renewable energy source in Finland. In my view and in the opinion of many researchers, it is certainly not a fossil fuel, as it has been defined in certain places, but yet it will probably be part of Finnish energy production for a long time to come. In this case, extending the transitional period for small peat units is a reasonable solution. And then let me make it clear that, although these small areas have not been subject to authorisation, there is absolutely no question of ruining nature or water. So even these cases have not been allowed to ruin nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u224	Mr President! As some speakers have already said, other changes in this government proposal are quite welcome, but this change in small peat production areas is not good for me.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u227	Madam President! This is yet another example of the dismantling of standards, but while Minister Tiilikainen is here on the ground and the condition of water bodies is also an important issue under the Government Programme, I would like to ask that, in addition to the circular economy's projects aimed at recirculating nutrients, at leaching water, from urban waste water sludge and perhaps from the use of enhanced manure, is it possible to get such pilot projects from this peat sector as well, so that new methods can be put in place. I believe that all the new peat production that is now being started must last in every part of the day. Of course, domestic energy must be used and we want to use it, but not at the expense of water bodies. This must be a matter of course. Just as the forest industry in the 1980s caught the bull by the horns and put its water system in order, and since then no one has had a beak to knock on these things, so I would hope that new innovations on the peat side will put things in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u228	Madam President! That is exactly what Mr Kalmari said that the forest industry in its own history was causing huge water emissions because of the wood processing process, and it has now been put in place with new technology, even so well that, for example, the Swimbread pulp mill takes water from the Pielisjoki river, which it uses for the process and then cleans up with modern methods, of course, and lets water back into the water more clean than it has taken from there — an example of how intelligently it is to operate. Today the peatlands are able to clean the waters with the same means. It is true that there are certain problems there, as Mr Hassi said, but they are also manageable. In my opinion, this Finnish mentality is the one that tries to do everything in its power to put an end to the rural economy. Let me give you an example. Madam President! Ilomantsi was once a major peat producer. Since then, everything has been done with different environmental rules — it is true that there have been environmental problems, it is not fair to deny them, but even those things have been put in better shape and they will be in better shape — and more than 100 jobs have gone by. From Australia, coal is being driven into the country, and we are in debt at a tremendous rate. If I remember correctly, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow Moody’s will lower Finland’s credit rating. Government loans are going up, interest rates are going up. Can we afford to abolish or make it virtually impossible to pursue one’s own livelihoods? And once we are in trouble, we will not even be able to help ourselves when we have created a bureaucracy that is simply no longer possible to repair with anything other than a really hard hand, but that requires a change of mentality. It's not about technology or knowledge. The question is whether we want this country to be maintained, inhabited. All we have is a plan to get 700,000 people to live in large growth centres, to get the countryside empty, and more and more people to live here and pay a huge price for the apartment or for the terrible rent.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u229	Mr President! I do believe that our best asset in Finland is that we make good, high-quality products and products that are good for the environment and that lead to sustainable development, and that it must be borne in mind that we take care of the production that is produced in Finland, does not spoil water, spoil air and spoil soil. We also need legislation for this, we need standards, we need licensing practices, and when things are done well, we need a very good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u231	Madam President! I would now like to emphasise that, when we are talking here about these bloating fees, we are talking about charges that have come retrospectively. It does not remove the obligation that environmental protection should not be in order, but that there is talk here of a quite unreasonable payment for small peatlings, mainly for their own use on a farm, for dry peat or for energy peat, or for the production of products for the same use in the neighbouring region. We are talking about extending that period. This is at least reasonable for it to be extended by five years and, of course, it should continue to be looked at very carefully, which is reasonable and what is not with regard to such payments.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u232	And the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u233	Madam President! As the previous speakers have already mentioned, there is a lot of good here too, Minister, and of course it is important for all of us to cut red tape and make things smoother. But I very much agree with Mr Hassi and Mr Myller on this five-year transitional period. Firstly, I would like an answer from the Minister on why the year really is not enough, and I would also like an answer to what kind of consultation this has taken place before this. And then, in fact, the experience of the transitional periods in the past: there are also very negative experiences, because many may submit applications at the very last minute in order to lead to these new demands for additional time. Can the Minister here add that this will not be the case, but is indeed a question of such moderation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u234	Mr President! There has been a critical debate here about peat production. For myself, I see peat production as a very domestic and employment-friendly industry, including from the energy point of view. I wonder, therefore, that this period of the year would be considered reasonable for such a search for change and for the processing of permits. A little more familiar with the industry or the entrepreneurs in that sector, yes, five years is quite a reasonable time to be able to assess their own investments and thus to prepare for the future in this peat production. It is good that these small areas and existing permits are now being granted this extension. I think this proposal is well prepared with expertise, thanks to the Minister that there is such a presentation and also this presentation will make it more flexible and red tape will be dismantled well. There has also been this moderation in the amount of these licence fees, and I too would be happy to hear whether there is going to be any differentiation or this kind of differentiation in these licence fees, so that the size of the licence will determine how that is going to go forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u235	Madam President! Of course, dismantling bureaucracy is the starting point for everything: reducing rationing and disproportionate licence fees, reducing those things that are irrational: seeking reasonableness for payments that the entrepreneur has not in a sense been able to prepare for. And what is not reasonable can't be a law, it's an old saying. I fully agree with Mr Hoskose that we need to be able to live in that rural area, that we need to be able to try, that we need to have opportunities for vitality. We must be able to safeguard domestic energy production, we must be able to safeguard domestic employment and entrepreneurship in those provinces. And all these things that we can do to promote it are good. When we go to this peat production itself and to that cost, when even a small amount of neva is opened up to peat production, there are a number of costs involved in drainage, environmental protection when making a spill basin, making a filter field and so on. The fact that those retroactive licence fees should be introduced does not remove the obligations that these things should not be in order, and every responsible producer wants to take care of them. More is the question of whether we want to keep domestic employment, domestic energy, or whether we trust coal imported from abroad in this area, which will not improve our own economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u236	Madam President! Indeed, these licence fees can be quite unreasonable for many small and medium-sized operators in very many sectors of the economy, other than peat production, which we are talking about here. On this point, I agree that there could be a need and means for moderation. However, the fact that the authorisation procedure is applied and used for business operators already in operation is not unusual or exceptional. In fact, the good development of the whole level of environmental protection in Finland has been based on the fact that when cleaning techniques have evolved, they have also started to be required of operators, both at the Bathing Harju pulp mill and everywhere else. It is quite common for the environmental responsibilities of production to be specified and, in the context of authorisation, the methods to be updated to reflect the best available technology. And I would actually like to ask the Minister: how, in the case of these less than 10 hectares of peat in question, is environmental liability currently regulated, and is it in line with current methods of water protection?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u237	Mr President! I tried to get Mr Hoskonen to respond to the speech just now, but now in the actual speech I will say that when Mr Hoskonen and Mr Savola also suggested that the alternative to peat would be coal, Statistics Finland announced that on January 28 this year the use of coal in Finland has fallen to the same level as in the early 1980s. In other words, in the case of the decline in coal use, we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u238	Madam President! That is right, the use of coal must fall and end completely, and then we must start using these domestic energy raw materials, wood and peat, so that we can sometimes pay off those debts. In my life, I have become accustomed to the fact that what is owed has always been paid. Unfortunately, the Finnish State has not yet learned this lesson. Madam President! One brief example of the absurd environmental permit procedure and the unnecessary charges associated with various protections: A summer-lahti entrepreneur runs a mink farm, a fox farm with very high quality production, many people working. The environmental authority is now demanding an environmental permit from it and costs EUR 15000. The question is whether the entrepreneur will continue or whether people will stick to the kilometer factory. These things must not happen in this country. That is why the dismantling of red tape and the simplification of various waste regulations and the dismantling of red tape in everything, through the whole administration, must be a matter for this government and the next governments. If we want to live, work and pay taxes in this country, we have no choice. We have to put an end to this unnecessary lirumium. If you do not believe it, you should visit the Finnish state once a day to see the rate of debt, it calms the wildest thoughts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u239	And Minister Tiilikainen, about three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u240	Thank you, President, and thank you for the many important contributions. I fully agree with several representatives, including the chairman of the committee, Mr Hassi, that water protection is an extremely important issue. This was stated here in many speeches and is also important in connection with peat production. We must have the principle that one resource must not be used to corrupt another. Therefore, the Environmental Protection Act will continue to require that new, small and large peat production areas be subject to an environmental permit. Well, then, why in the existing regions did I now come to the conclusion that we should postpone this transitional period just as much as we did? It is precisely because if we have an existing activity, which is usually quite small in such small areas, as Mr Savola described here, for example, that compulsory authorisation in a short transition period would simply mean that either the entrepreneur is forced to stop the job or it is simply economically unprofitable. This transitional period of five years ensures that, if that area has been in production for a longer period of time, it may be that the production will be completed over a period of five years, or the holder of the area will have five years of funtsia, whether it is worth the permit to go for it or not. Representatives Myller and Hassi and many others wondered about this length of transition. You have done so many times in the European Parliament that, when a law on environmental protection is being amended, even if it is biomass-fired power stations, it is only natural that in the interests of Finland it is intended to apply for a transitional period as long as possible for those existing installations, that stricter environmental protection legislation always applies to the future or that a transitional period is reasonable. This is exactly the same phenomenon. However, by changing the law to take better account of the protection of the environment in our peat production in the future, we will give these small existing operators a sufficiently long and reasonable transition period. Representatives Pakkanen and Savola asked about this differentiation of payments. Now we have this kind of cost-benefit principle in a certain way in these permit fees, and I will find out whether it is possible for small areas to also get a lower fee if that permit is processed lighter. All in all, of course, in this authorisation, streamlining the authorisation is one of the objectives of the government. If, for example, electrification helps to simplify and speed up the process so that it creates less costs for the authorities, less trouble for the applicant, then, in all senses, payments will also be reduced, because that is the principle of cost-effectiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u241	Mr President! Just as Minister Tiilikainen said, legislation, both in Finland and in Europe, is a normal practice for operators who already carry out activities to be given transitional periods. But in that respect I would like to point out that it is not quite the usual procedure to extend these transitional periods retrospectively.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u242	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u243	Madam President! The evening has gone a long way and this sitting cannot be extended for too long. Is it possible for me to briefly present all the remaining three legislative proposals in my field... [Second Vice-President PaulaRisikko : Fine. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u247	Mr President! In this proposal, the government is doing an excellent job by shifting the decision-making power from anomalous to democratic decision-making by the Ely Centres. It simply makes sense, for example, to transfer derogations from beach construction to municipalities and to facilitate renovation. When you read a government proposal, you have to wonder how previous governments have had the will and energy to create these articles and regulations. I think this is about red-green concentration ideology and better knowledge. It is a pleasure to dismantle such regulations, but more could be released. In my opinion, the explanatory statement highlights environmental issues even too much. I hope that the government will have more courage in the future – through this government base.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u248	Congressman Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u249	Mr President! If the Minister is in a hurry, I will ask him whether it would be possible for him to be present for a while, to be able to combine the debate on these final issues, but to ask the Minister some further questions. For example, I am interested in this matter of energy certificates, and that is why I have sat here this evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u250	How's the Minister? Is there a chance to be for a while?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u251	Mr President! The minister's job is to serve the Parliament, which is a body that regulates Finnish law. I hope, of course, that, if there are acute questions here and this debate has been awaited, they could be taken. This life is not up to 15 or 10 minutes, that I am happy to hear your concerns about things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u252	That is all very well, but now I would like your answer to say that until when the Minister will be able to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u254	Then let's go to those scrapy questions. Congressman Heinäluoma, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u255	Mr President! If you don't mind, let's go within a minute so that... [Second Vice-President PaulaRisikko: Yes, as I said, the reply. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u258	So let us take these one-minute answers for a moment. Congressman Heinonen, question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u259	Mr President! I very much welcome this transfer of derogation permits to where the best information is, i.e. to the local level. However, this refers to the fact that the change in the role of elys and this right of appeal are not being limited. However, the Government Programme has agreed to change the role of elys to consult on these zoning issues, and I would ask: why has this policy been changed? I would also like to ask: when, as a whole, where are these things, we are also talking about the possibility of small buildings being built by means of notification procedures, as well as solar panels and geothermal pumps, what progress has been made in preparing this issue?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u260	One minute's reply to the following representatives: Mr Viitanen, Mr Myller, Mr Kalmari. A few more will then be taken, but at this point Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u261	Madam President! Energy certification: Yes, I was very surprised when I looked at this motion and found that we are really going back to extending this energy certification obligation, even to garages. I mean, it really does surprise me. Sometimes the question arises as to whether nothing will be enough if we have to go now. All in all, this is the wrong direction, and this is exactly the opposite of what happened in the previous period, so that if the government speaks very much of the dismantling of standards, of unnecessary regulation and bureaucracy, this is going in the exact opposite direction. President! Then, as a minister in good cooperation with the Omakoti Union and with respect for the spirit of the citizens' initiative, I wanted to take the initiative that Finland, at EU level too, would seek to exempt these so-called old detached houses from the mandatory energy certificate. At that time, I would like to speak to the Commissioner, and I would like to hear what is going on here. This was then placed on the REFIT list, as it were, to be assessed on the basis of the reply to this letter. The second point is this national legislation, just as was asked here. It would, of course, have been good if this had already been the case with the old self-catering industries to make this process of energy certification understandable,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u262	We'll stay a minute, and everyone will be able to ask before the minister has to leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u263	Mr President! I would like to ask about these derogations from the formulas, when a colleague here said that it is wonderful that the power of decision is now being delegated to the municipalities to decide on the arbitrariness of life.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u270	Mr President! The amendment to the Land Use and Building Act is very good and brings decision-making power closer to the customer, which is in line with the Government Programme. However, I would like to ask that if the Ely Centre retains the right to appeal, is it likely or possible that the life will become like this kind of a chaplain, even if the intention is that the authorities will no longer complain about each other's decisions in the past. One way of thinking is not to want, for example, to build a cohesive community structure and the like in rural areas at all. I would like the Minister to answer whether my fear is in vain.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u271	Three more minutes of reply, representatives Torniainen, Viitanen and Heinonen. Then the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u272	Madam President! The Government's proposal to amend the Energy Certificate Act is due to the fact that the European Commission has stated that Finnish legislation does not correspond to the Energy Efficiency Directive for Buildings in so far as the types of buildings or buildings are excluded from the energy certification procedure at that earlier stage and this proposal comes from it. Indeed, this proposal, when it comes into force, will entail additional costs for businesses, municipalities and different communities, and that is, of course, a cause for concern. The government’s proposal has estimated the cost of coming from there — they are rather round. I personally assume and hope that the government will continue to monitor the costs involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u273	Madam President! Now to the second point: this asp issue. Last season, the law was improved by raising this upper age limit and raising the maximum rates for interest subsidies in the various zones. I think it was a good and important reform, and that is what Parliament thought at the time. At the time, we were already thinking about this minimum age limit and it was concluded that it was at risk of this Papa betalar issue, to which the Minister refers, and that is why it was not taken at this stage. I have followed the debate and I understand that an attempt has now been made to reject this possibility, but yes, I also want and require a careful consultation of Parliament on this matter. But I have an idea for you, Minister: this could be developed in the future in such a way that now that there are three zones for these maximum loans, there is Helsinki, then there is Espoo, Vantaa, Kauniainen, and then there is the whole other country as the same zone, which means that these maximum amounts of loans in Tampere, for example, are the same as then in one of the small municipalities in the north,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u274	Madam President! For the purpose of this Energy Certificate: It is true that this is actually going to go a little further with what has been going on in the EU, that is to say, this kind of deregulation, and now they are pushing us to put energy certificates on these halls and garages and so on. And I would actually ask the Minister: what is going to happen here if we do not do this in Finland? This is going the wrong way. Then for that housing saving at the end of the day. In my opinion, this reduction in the lower limit is good, it is good to teach young people to be thrifty, and I would ask the Minister whether, for example, it is possible to use a graduation gift or a confessional gift if this type of income or gifts are received by a child?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u275	And then the minister responds, four minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u276	President! I will start with this energy certificate, and indeed this is now expanding to cover the buildings required by that directive. Why? Because we have the European Commission's Pilot procedure under way, and if we do not respond to this, then we will be in this control procedure. Unfortunately, the Commission simply considers that the directives are being implemented, and certainly the representatives of Viitanen and Heinäluoma are well aware of this EU procedure. Well, I personally think it is important to see what is most important to us in Finland, and they are indeed these old small houses. And for that reason, if we want to have reason to win and be able to maintain such exceptions as the ex-Minister Viitanen wanted, is it not worth doing in other ways as required by the directive and thinking about what is our most important thing that we start to drive? Well, then, these matters, which relate to these changes in energy certificates required by Parliament, really make this content easier to understand, i.e. a more informative energy certificate plus then an examination of these energy-form coefficients. As I said there, this issue is being prepared together with the legislation on nearly zero energy construction, because it is going to have to use these very same energy-form factors and it makes sense to look at that multiplier palette at once and then bring both laws equally here in Parliament. In other words, these changes to the energy certificates required by Parliament will be implemented. Now it's just this little delay to look at them together with this zero-energy construction. These other issues relate, for example, to other reforms of this Land Use and Building Act. Heinonen asked how these other reliefs progressed. They proceed in such a way that they are preparing under the Land Use and Construction Act. Now this transfer of powers is being carried out here, and otherwise the Land Use and Building Act will be examined. I would like to see these changes made in the course of this year. Then there was the concern that if the municipalities have this power, what will come of it. I myself am accustomed to the fact that responsibility is always transferred with the power, and I believe that when that power is in the hands of the municipality there, it is also able to make responsible decisions, that is all. In other words, we should not be afraid that democratically elected bodies will be given power — just as in this case the municipality is a democratic unit. This is an interesting proposal by Mrs Viitane on the division of zones. On the basis of this, I will look positively at issues that are more in line with the actual situation than the current legislation does. So I put that thought behind my ear. When we have different costs of living in different parts of the world anyway, I do not think that this would be in any way impossible to go to funze. I thank you for the proposal, but this was not yet a promise, Thank you for the expert debate, and I am sure these concerns will be discussed here by the committees in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u277	Okay, and then let's go... — Well, answer, Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u278	Mr President! If the minister has to leave, I understand that too, but that does not prevent me from commenting on the Minister's message. And in this regard, I would just like to say that I am very disappointed with this Minister's line. It was, in fact, impenetrable in relation to this EU legislation. I myself am a strong supporter of the Union and I regard it as a necessary community for European affairs, but this kind of regulation, which is harassing people, which is what these computational energy certificates for old detached houses are, is disastrous for the European Union. People don't understand these things. Calculations will be made of energy consumption that is not in line with reality because it differs from actual energy consumption. And now we are moving, not in the direction of decreasing regulation, but in the direction of increasing regulation, after Parliament clearly said in the last parliamentary term that it wants to get rid of this. Parliament had a position on this, and I thought the whole Parliament was committed to it, and it has not been taken into account in this preparation. There will be more regulation. I think it should be said directly to the Union that this is just another thing that the Union is now announcing in its own action that it wants to do, and that we should look at this card until the end of what the Union will do if we do not extend this completely unnecessary regulation to these warehouses and detached houses.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u279	One more reply, Mr Viitanen, and then the Minister has asked for a brief reply, but then we will go to that list, the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u280	Mr President! With regard to this proposal at hand, the Minister says that we should be kind here, as it were, so that we could get someone else, someone more important. But I see it in the very way that when the EU itself talks about its REFIT project, about dismantling unnecessary standards, we should say, as we stand now, that we should put them in the wastebasket. The EU does not have to tell us every nail position, and that is why I wish we could have acted firmly towards the EU, in the same way that we have been given this voluntary energy certificate for small houses, and here too we are starting not to have to take that garage with us. That here I now hope that Finland will act very strongly in that Union, and indeed underlining, Minister, is this not also in line with the government's line when it is said that there is no unnecessary regulation. Surely this is not something new that will once again increase costs, increase bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u281	Then the Minister's reply on that point was brief.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u282	I would also like to point out that this is precisely the reason why Parliament's policies on these detached houses can be implemented, and I am working on it. But what does it have to do with swimming pools or ice halls? In other words, the same entity, but you know very well how easy it is to change European Union legislation. I do not deny that it is absolutely worthwhile for us to push in that direction, but you also know perfectly well that it is worth choosing the objectives that are considered to be the most important for Finns and trying to achieve them. I don't think we really have a lot of disagreement about this. I myself am concerned about the safety of the Finnish single-family resident and the right that this energy certificate does not mistreat him.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u283	All right, and then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u284	Madam President! This government proposal 148 is one part of a larger package of deregulation of standards and unnecessary regulation so that we can allocate resources more effectively and efficiently and clarify these decision-making processes in municipalities and larger regions. This is where the competence for deviations is transferred to where the information is, i.e. from the Ely Centres to the municipalities, and these decisions would be taken by the municipalities in the future. The proposal proposes that the Land Use and Building Act be amended so that the current competence for derogation from the economic, transport and environmental centres would therefore be transferred to the municipalities in full. The municipalities would therefore be subject to all the decisions of non-construction and would also have the power to grant a derogation even in the case of a minor derogation from the total right to build per site indicated in the plan or the allocation of a minor right to build to an area to which no building right has been assigned in the plan, a derogation from the design requirement for the protection of the building and a derogation from the building ban resulting from the approval of the plan referred to in Article 53(3) of the Land Use and Building Law. In addition, it is proposed to transfer to the municipalities the full scope of the regional derogation jurisdiction, which would also be extended to change the premises of an existing commercial or office building in the area of the establishment for residential use or other non-environmental use. All in all, it will be easier to make these changes easier. The municipality could decide that a derogation from the provision, provision, prohibition or other restriction on construction or other measures provided for in or under the Land Use and Construction Act may be granted even in an area larger than one site where it is a matter of changing the premises of an existing residential, commercial or office building in the site for residential use or other non-environmental use. The aim of this is to create so-called regional permits so that each house does not have to apply for a permit separately, but can take decisions to facilitate such a larger area and its construction. In this proposal, the business, transport and environmental centres would still be left with the right to appeal against municipal decisions of exception, but the Government Programme clearly states that the role of Ely centres will be changed into consultation. This too is important as a change, and I hope that it will also help to make progress. In this debate, I raised other reforms in this same whole in the fast pace of the debate, and I welcomed the fact that Minister Tiilikainen, who is also responsible for construction, said that during this year, for example, it would be possible to have a law before Parliament that such a small supplementary building, such as the building of an additional house of approximately 25 to 30 square meters from Sweden, would be possible in the future in Finland, with the notification procedure, solar panels, geothermal pumps and the like. It would make sense to dismantle unnecessary bureaucracy. The Government Programme has also stated that it will facilitate the regularisation of leisure accommodation and limit the right of appeal so that in future these complaints could only be made by the people directly affected by the measure in question. National standards for wood construction are also to be established, and one of these is the model of the streamlined planning process that has been set out in the Government Programme and is also to be taken forward. Let's hope these move forward. So a little bit of regulation or regulatory change that will certainly change at these later stages, such as changing the role of that animal in a consultative direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u285	Mr President! According to the Government Programme, derogations from beach construction decisions are transferred to municipalities. I am very pleased that this proposal has now been submitted to Parliament so soon and is due to enter into force from the beginning of April. I believe that these decisions can be made very well in the municipalities, very practical decisions, and there will certainly be enough expertise in these decisions. The opportunities for business, transport and environmental centres, ely centres, are still quite high. They have a wide right of opinion, and I do not think there is any risk here. At the moment the situation is that the municipal government can only support an exemption and is, by the way, powerless with regard to the officials of the Ely Centres.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u286	Madam President! According to the Government's proposal now in the referral debate, the decision-making power over the deviations from construction is transferred from ely centres to municipalities. This benefits both the applicants for authorisation, the Ely Centres and the municipalities as well. Since municipalities are responsible for planning the use of their territories, it is also very appropriate that the municipalities should have full power of tolerance. The current division of tolerance between the municipality and Ely centres often results in duplication of work and also slows down permit processes. This Government proposal promotes the allocation of the resources of the Ely Centres and municipalities and clarifies the competence for deviations. Authorisation processes are accelerating, the duplication of work between municipalities and Ely Centres is decreasing, and for municipalities the situation is also improved by allowing them to charge a fee for their decision if they so wish.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u287	Mr President! Both in this legislative proposal and in those previous ones that are sent to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, that is the good part and then the slightly less good part. There are some good points in this bill, for example, that when it is decided to change business premises to residential use, it is, of course, quite reasonable to do so in the municipality, because they know how it is done and what the need is and what the places are. But then we come to this question of the beach plan and our departure from it. As I said earlier, when the Ely Centres have made complaints about municipal plan decisions, these complaints have been successful. I have had a debate in the ely centres, and it has been pointed out that such public thinking is based on the fact that ely centres, as it were, are making these complaints, but this is certainly not the case. This is shown by the fact that these complaints have really been successful, i.e. it has been found that mistakes have been made that have had to be corrected. Now we want to give this up altogether, and if the Ely Centre — or whatever it will be in the future — is merely consulting, then where is it as if the citizen, a municipal citizen, is also able to obtain equality and justice in these formulas? We all know there may be big problems with the beach patterns. It's about big financial benefits or losses. Yes, these must be open to decision-making and also so that the possibility of appeal is always open.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u288	Mr President! I very much agree with Mr Myller that, in fact, in this transformation of business and office premises into residential use, the transfer of decision-making powers to municipalities is quite justified, but then, with regard to the derogation procedure for beach plans, I really do not support the government's proposal. Mr Myller said that the complaints from the Ely Centres have been successful. Since the complaint, 9% of Elyi's decisions have changed, while 44% of municipalities' decisions under appeal have changed. In other words, this also suggests that, apart from the fact that local authorities are aware of local issues, it is also — yes, we all know — a temptation to take decisions on the basis of short-term economic interests. From my own hometown, Tampere, I know many examples where the built environment is now much better than it would have been if the Council's original decision had come into force as such, had it not been complained about and then, after this complaint process, the matter would not have changed. In other words, just as Mrs Myller feels it is important not to reduce the right of appeal. I consider a very bad future in which we have legislation regulating zoning, but in practice then municipalities can do almost anything if the neighbour is not sufficiently competent, well enough to know the law in order to be able to do
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u289	Madam President! Prime Minister Juha One of the key projects of the Sipilä Government is the elimination of bureaucracy, and I hope that this will be a very rosy future and the best success. Then, with regard to this law now under discussion on the transfer of derogation permits for coastal construction to be decided by the municipalities, I warmly support that. We must remember that once the beach plans have been drawn up, they have been drawn up in accordance with the existing rules. In all planning, such as beach planning, as in other planning, it is an excellent aspect that the right of all landowners and beneficiaries to build is examined objectively in accordance with the existing approved rules. That is a perfectly normal procedure. So there's no other bogeyman in it, either. Secondly, as far as these waivers are concerned. For example, if a person wants to spend his retirement there at the summer cottage of Ilomantsi and even build, transforms his summer cottage into a home for a good summer home, put in place the proper wastewater systems, which is completely manageable with the current technology, what is weakening? It's not gonna get any worse. It's gonna be all right. Fear of whether the neighbour is watching, as we were able to listen to Mr Hassi in the previous speech, that the neighbour is so alert that he can complain: This is exactly the way that big brother's gonna stay up. I wonder where Mr. Hassi has found that model as well. I can't imagine. But in any case, Madam President, if this country really wants to get up out of this swamp of recession, then we must get the construction moving. We have billions of projects standing in the administrative courts because of various complaints, and at the same time we have 500,000 unemployed immediately — not 500,000, of course, but considering all those who are supported or in education or laid off or something else, there is not much less than half a million unemployed — and the amount of government debt is increasing with noise. Yes, this road has been taken, my friends, to the end. If anyone in this country wants to continue investing, which is a very positive thing, then I think that these projects should be authorised as soon as possible. Such frivolous fooling about the fact that an official in Ilomats or Utsjoki or in Pelkosenniemi or even in Hankonniemi knows where to build its cottage when the formulas are in order — completely vain smarting and killing time. There is a huge amount of investment waiting to be made, Finnish building needs would be sold, work would be done, tax revenue would come to the state, VAT and so on. I will take one example, or indeed two, of the reliability of the authorities mentioned in the previous speeches. When this Natura site was designed in Ilomantsi, Finland, these spirits mentioned by Satu Hassi, the authorities, designed very high-quality plans. My friend’s farm was claimed to have an open swamp, even though the property grew 250 hectares of the best pine logs. They had not even bothered to visit to see what was there. Similarly, from the area next to my summer cottage, the paper said that it is an excellent natural, ridged, coniferous area. It was an area that Enso-Gutzeit had been beaten, just plowed and sowed. There we are still on painful feet, as you could, but you can hardly talk about a forest of nature when the open felling had taken place the previous week. Then, of course, immediately it was spotted to get a new forest to grow. Well, the forest has grown there, but as far as this official credibility is concerned, then let these examples tell us what that official credibility is if the open swamp is not separated from the forest of 250 mounds. I have some doubts about this procedure. But if we really want in this country to start paying our debts — and that is the way we have to go, that is the only way we have — then we really need to dismantle these unnecessary red tape. We no longer need a single official for such a task. In municipalities you can also see, the patterns read and so on, it is not rocket science, and if any authority suspects such a thing, let it go and see for yourself what the situation is there, if there is so much time, but let it not cost anyone any wages, because if we want this country up from this swamp, then we have to go to work gradually. Madam President! Finally, I would like to say that when there are indeed billions of investments in Finland waiting for authorisation to be processed, it is strange that, for example, in Ilomantsi, when the fibre was built for eight months — Mr Heinäluoma, especially for you, I would like to say this, and to Mrs Myller — that is to say, when Ilomantsi made a fibre project, our permits, the papers, that we are allowed to drill under state roads the tunnels from which the cables go, eight months stood on the table of the Tampere Ely Centre. A young female engineer who has never, ever, been to Ilomants waited eight months. The men and the planes were waiting for permission to get to work. Is this what you think is the good bureaucracy? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u291	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u292	Madam President! We dealt with the citizens' initiative on energy certificates in Parliament last season. The Parliament then required that the government take urgent measures to make the content of the energy certificate for small houses easier to understand, eliminating the problems of comparability resulting from the multiplication of energy sources, and that the government take the initiative to revise the Energy Efficiency Directive for buildings to make the energy certificate voluntary for old detached houses. This is what Parliament required during the last term of government. In some ways, this government proposal of 150, which is now under discussion, is one of the famous ones, that there are things that everyone is in favour of, and they do not move forward — and then there are things that no one is in favour of, and they are still progressing. Now we have a motion on the table which is, in fact, quite contrary to this previous Parliament's approval. The question that might actually be asked is whether this legislation is so busy that it has to be brought here as a separate matter, or whether it could be considered as a whole. Of course, it would also be necessary to hear about this initiative of the government to exempt old detached houses, for example, from this energy certificate which has been made for it, not only during the time of the ministers, but also during the present minister's time. Mr President! I personally am very much in favour of this type of regulation now. I remember how we dealt with this last season, and it was then said that the European Commission has also gone into deregulation of this kind of unnecessary regulation. And then the Housing Minister, Mr Viitanen, pointed this out in the parliamentary debate and debate and promised that he would be determined to take the matter forward. But now it seems that here again the EU is waving its tail and we are doing what is being commanded of the EU. I hope that the committee will give serious consideration to this issue and to the timetable, particularly with regard to the other energy certification legislation that is being prepared, and at least consider that these can be dealt with at the same time and then brought into the decision-making process if the European Commission then asks us to do so until the end. I understand that we must comply with these regulations and that we will not be able to get rid of them if we are unable to amend that directive, but, in accordance with the statement of Parliament, the government must take the initiative here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u293	Madam President! It was all right to hear Mr Heinonen's criticism just now. Quite frankly, it has just — or, at least, between the lines — come to light that this is a rather crazy matter, if these terms allow us to describe it. So it is a matter of energy certification once again, and it was a little disappointing to me too that when I looked at the title that yahaha, now it comes, the change in the energy certificate in the direction desired by the Union for Homes and Citizens' Initiative, there was a proposal which is exactly the opposite for the line and the development activities of that time. Of course, when I look at this proposal, it does occur to me that, even in this proposal, it says that this does not even have a significant positive impact on the environment in itself, which is why, in the first place, directives of this kind have started to be drawn up, if not even that objective is achieved, then why on earth are we now increasing once again the public's irritation and concern and also the famous bureaucracy and costs? The previous paragraph underlined very much that all red tape-reducing measures are very welcome, and silly, then the opposite is happening in the next case and costs and red tape are increasing. I believe it already sounds a little strange for a normal person to say that even now the garages need an energy certificate. President! Indeed, of these old detached houses: Last season it was a pleasure to act as Minister of Housing at the times when this great citizens' initiative was taken on the initiative of the Union for Homes, and even when the citizens' initiative was coming to Parliament, I decided — it is a wisdom that if something is wrong it does not always have to be wrong until the end and in the pin, but that wrongs can be corrected — that I want to catch up with this citizens' initiative, its spirit, and I also took the initiative in the referral debate that we should approach the EU and propose that, for these old small houses, an energy certificate be voluntary in the future. It was a pleasure to cooperate with Parliament, and Parliament also registered this as its own claim. We then sent a letter to the Commissioner at the time and received a reply saying that it was a good directive in itself, but let us take this on the REFIT list now, because it was in my letter that I called for all standards to be dismantled in vain, so is it not just one that could be dismantled, and this went on towards the EU? Well, then the other thing was that, as Minister, I also said that I want to listen to Parliament in what should then be done about this national law, because the EU card is a little different. I was pleased that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and Parliament as a whole then required that these concerns of the citizens be corrected and that these incomprehensible and difficult situations, which have been set out in the form, should be clarified and corrected. I set up a working group that was thinking about this matter and, on the basis of a survey of the working group, I set out a couple of different models for further preparation, which address precisely these shortcomings in the Parliament — one of them was, by the way, the own model of the Omatomatoliitto. I wanted the models of civil society and the Union for Homes to be taken very seriously. These were further prepared, and the idea was what I told Parliament then, that these lines will then be developed as a basis for the next Government Programme negotiations so that we can be vigilant immediately, be able to tackle the matter and perhaps agree further in the Government Programme negotiations. Of course, we did not yet know what the future government would be like, but such measures were taken quickly in the course of the last period when the citizens' initiative came to Parliament. Well, of course, it was a little funny to hear now that the Minister in his own speech thought that now a new expansion of energy certificates contrary to this spirit is just a necessity, even in the sense that Finland would then get some other goal through. But when it comes to the whole package and the whole directive on energy efficiency in buildings, which is in fact being reviewed and evaluated, as I recall, from the beginning of next year, on 1 January 2017, and when this happens there anyway, it would be very wise to say in full terms that this is contrary to the REFIT spirit, this is unnecessary regulation. I do not believe, as Mr Heinonen said quite well, that this is what anyone ultimately wants, if that is what is actually being asked. Why on earth if we have a machine that has run someone over, then we should force Finland to do this too? We must definitely be very active in that direction towards the EU, but we must also have the ability and willingness of the government to be feisty in this and then not implement this proposal. So, indeed, if the government party Heinonen now expressed its great scepticism, this will, of course, enable Parliament to intervene in this government proposal in this Chamber. But I see, Mr President, that the time for reference is now running out, so for now I shall end here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u294	Mr President! This is indeed a significant issue, not just for thousands or tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of people, but for millions. Finland is a small-housed country, completely different from what the living style in Central and Southern Europe is. We have another million small houses, with almost 3 million people living in them. This legislation affects Finland, but it does not affect France or Germany or Italy or Spain. And when we tend to take these on the last one, it leads to this being a genuine additional cost for the self-inhabitants, and then, in its present form — the information that comes out of it — may mean nothing at all in relation to the real energy consumption of the building, because it is calculated by artificial coefficients, so it is not good. This has come as a big citizen's feedback: As long as people sell these old detached houses, they're gonna have to get this. They take the EUR 300 or EUR 500, in some cases between EUR 800 and 900, up to EUR 1000, for doing this, and when they get that certificate in their hand, they find that it does not at all correspond to the actual consumption of their building, and then when they have to start explaining it to the buyers, they are quite annoyed. I am disappointed that, when such an important issue is dealt with, there will only be four Members of Parliament — thank you to all those present. But this becomes the critical attitude of people towards governance, and also towards the European Union, that such regulations — I think they are more tempting than those which actually promote environmental protection or energy efficiency — than they are doing now. So I also hope that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will deal with this in a very critical manner and think about it. I also understand that a sign can be put in an ice hall and a swimming pool if they are sold — that is, they are not very often sold — but when you put garages and warehouses in a detached house in this separate mess, a few consultants will cash for this. Perhaps it is a way of employing, but I do not think it is a sensible way of employing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u295	Madam President! There has been a very serious talk this evening, and I will not repeat that in my speech. This proposal proposes to amend the law on the energy certificate of a building. The definition of buildings completely exempt from the acquisition and use of energy certificates is changing. For example, storage buildings are proposed to be subject to the energy certification procedure. At the end of 2013, there were nearly 14,000 of these warehouses. Not all of these would be affected by the change, but those buildings that use energy to maintain the appropriate indoor climate conditions in the building premises. In addition, energy certification obligations do not apply to storage facilities or garages with a maximum surface area of 50 m2. Madam President! Although I am a member of the Government Party, I do not consider this amendment to be necessary. The proposal will cost money and will only increase the standards that this government has promised to dismantle on the contrary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u296	Madam President! In fact, the previous speaker corrected that when Mr Heinäluoma’s speech left perhaps the type of picture that this now applies to the garage of every house,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u297	Madam President! I would take seriously the concerns expressed here, for example, regarding these garages. Among other things, this statement by the Omakoti Union on this matter raises the very concern of the self-inhabitant that, when many times two car stables and others are acquired, this will undoubtedly increase the cost of self-inhabitants, even according to this statement. And I hope that when, Mr Heinonen, you said in the previous speech that this was a bad, bureaucratic increase in costs and so on, then it would be worth keeping that line, especially now that you have received your support from the representative of the Finns. Of course, it gives hope that this injustice can be tackled in the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment. But it has to be said that I was disappointed by the lack of teeth in the government that this has automatically been taken away from raising hands, without seeing this situation and the comprehensive grip that is now needed specifically.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u298	Mr President! What is missing is that eight square feet of cold garages should also be included in this. This goes in a different direction than what Parliament said in its statement on the basis of the citizens' initiative during the last parliamentary term. I am talking about this because I myself sat there — well, it was in another room, in the old Chamber — in the chair of the President and listened to the debate. I found it very united: it was recognised that there is unnecessary regulation here, which is difficult for people, that there are no objectives that are said to be promoted, and that is why we must get rid of it. I was very pleased that, after that, first of all, Minister Viitanen announced in the referral debate that he would propose,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u299	Madam President! In fact, what I was going to say in that previous speech was exactly what I was going to say when I heard Mr Heinonen's interlude about this, that what we did towards the EU was indeed done. Now that Finland has taken this initiative there, I hope that when it comes to evaluation, we will see to it that we stick to our position and that we are very active in this. I would now see that, if we talk about dismantling unnecessary standards there too in the EU, that is, above all, what this issue should be, and that is why this initiative by Finland is very well-founded overall. It is a very important issue which has come to the fore that this is now a matter that affects people’s everyday life — an issue that rightly angers and worries many people in their own homes. I liked the fact that the citizens' initiative process went as it did, so they wanted to take that attitude in the whole Parliament — and I also wanted to — to listen, to be improved, and not to leave it out of the fact that if anyone was foolish, let it go to the bottom. And this is the government's proposal because it was such a valuable process when it was this citizens' initiative and the will of Parliament, now, of course, quite a stomach bill then.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u300	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u301	Madam President! The housing savings bonus system was reformed during the last government term. The ceiling was then extended to 39 years, and now the lower limit is to be dropped to 15 years, so that young people could earlier save money to get that first apartment. These asp deposits are subject to interest and additional interest rates, which are therefore tax-free, currently at 1 %, and then an additional interest rate of 2-4 % will be agreed with the Bank. The additional interest shall be paid for the year of commencement of the deposit and thereafter for a maximum of five calendar years. Now that the lower limit is dropped to 15 years and the government has ended up in the model where this savings money is limited so that the underage young person can only save the money earned with his own work, then it became necessary to adjust the additional interest rate so that in certain circumstances the young person could indicate that he would only use that better interest rate when he reached his adult age, since it is likely that from 15 years of age to 15 years of age, the asp savings will be very small if the young person, for example, earns them with his own summer work. This proposal states that such assets would also be the proceeds of own-account assets. Mr President! I personally hope that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will make this entry quite clear in such a way that it will be possible to use, for example, confessional gifts, birthday gifts or, for example, graduation gifts and this type of young person's own income if he wants to put those gifts into savings, for example. However, it talks about 50-year-olds, hundreds, and it is great if young people between the ages of 15 and 17 decide to use them to save their first home at that age. Personally, I would have been prepared to enact this law without such a self-deserved limit, because we already have the gift limits that one can present to another today, and I do not see that this would create a model in which someone else would put money on someone else's account, but I believe that quite a bit of small sums of money will also accumulate in the future. Saving Asp is a great way, and I encourage all young people to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u302	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-04-ps-2.u303	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the Act on excise duty on liquid fuels. New fuels are regularly placed on the market to achieve the near-carbon benefits. That is why tax legislation must be able to respond to developments, and that is what this proposal is doing. This change would prevent the entry into the market of poor fuels for harmful emissions in the near future. At the same time, it adds that, in line with the general objective of the law, fuels with similar environmental characteristics are treated in a uniform way in taxation. Madam President! I think the government's proposal is very good.
