ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. On 13 October 2016, the Council of Presidents proposed that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 13 October 2016. In the context of the debate Ms Tuppurainen, supported by Mrs Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, has, contrary to the proposal of the Council of Presidents, proposed that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Legal Affairs must deliver an opinion. At its meeting on 14 October 2016, the Council of Presidents revised its earlier proposal and proposed that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u2	Mr President! I was going to vote "yes."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u3	Let's mark this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u4	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Transport and Communications, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Then let's move on to the conversation. It will begin and will be presented by Minister Rehn.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u5	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The climate agreement reached in Paris in December obliges world countries to look for ways to maintain the global average temperature increase at well below 2°C relative to pre-industrial time. In this agreement, countries commit themselves to achieving the emission reduction targets they set and aim to increase their ambition every five years, i.e. gradually. Finland signed the Paris Agreement with the EU and its Member States in April of this year in New York... [President MariaLohela : I'm sorry, Minister Rehn, for the moment. I would now ask you to move those other debates outside the Chamber, and let us focus here on this issue. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u8	Värderade Talman! Parisavtalet är med stor sannolikhet detta århundrades viktigaste document. För en gångs skull har en stor mayoritet av världens lännder kunnat förena sig inför det hot som den globala klimatupppvärmningen medför. För det är det, ett hot.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u9	Mr President! The climate agreement reached in Paris last December can be seen as an historic and so far the most important step forward in the fight against climate change. Among other things, the agreement includes a more ambitious target of halting global warming to 1.5 degrees, which in practice means, for example, giving up fossil fuels on a reasonably fast schedule. The agreement includes, inter alia, a five-year review period on the adequacy of climate targets and reporting obligations for countries on how they have progressed towards their targets. The agreement also has a long-term objective of adapting to climate change. It is essential that the agreement is legally binding and that all major industrialised countries are involved in it. Today, less than a year after the conclusion of the climate agreement, it will come into force on 4 November, when the limit of 55 or more parties and the emission limit of 55% have been exceeded. China and the United States have ratified the Paris Agreement in September and the European Union in early October. It is now up to the Finnish Parliament, for its part, to adopt the climate agreement and to implement the provisions of the agreement in the field of legislation. The climate agreement has major economic impacts, and Finland should be among the pioneers in the change. Temperature and emission reduction targets mean a significant change in production, investment, consumption control and business. It is important for different actors, such as the state, municipalities and companies, to understand the whole in their own decision-making. In the future, countries and actors will be able to reform their activities in an environmentally sustainable way. The transition to a low carbon economy opens up new growth opportunities and improves the competitive position of industry in Europe and Finland. A growing global demand and market for clean environmental and energy technology products is emerging. Mr President! In order to achieve the emission reduction targets under the climate agreement in practice, it requires an ambitious and goal-oriented climate and environment policy for Finland and a parallel decision-making process with this in all policy areas. Alongside political decision-making, business activities play a key role in achieving climate objectives. There are several instruments to promote climate objectives and there is a wide need for action in various areas of society. Key issues include energy policy reform, strengthening environmental policy, promoting research and innovation, sustainable use of natural resources and circular economy, agriculture and forestry, solutions for land use, housing and transport, urban policy, and various instruments of economic governance. Since energy production and consumption account for 80% of Finland's greenhouse gas emissions by including the energy used by transport, energy policy must make a clear transition towards zero-emission, renewable and intelligent energy production. The key to reducing emissions is how to move towards renewable and decentralised energy production, how to support the development and investment of energy technologies, how to phase out the use of nuclear power and fossil fuels, such as oil, coal and peat, how to develop European energy cooperation and how to switch transport to emission-free solutions. As a report to Parliament, the energy and climate strategy that is still being submitted to Parliament this year can be an important tool for achieving climate objectives if it is ambitious enough and makes clear choices about the direction of Finland's energy policy. For example, the lack of choices was the key problem of the Energy and Climate Roadmap 2050 published in 2014. In addition to energy, forests are a key issue for Finland, because forests are an important carbon sink. Without the protection and strengthening of forests, global warming cannot be halted by the targets set. Bioeconomy offers Finland economic opportunities, but at the same time we must genuinely ensure that our forests are able to carry. Sustainable use of natural resources and sufficient resources are major issues not only from the point of view of climate change but also solidarity between generations. Over-consumption of natural resources has been a major problem since the 1970s, and at the moment mankind is using resources equivalent to the carrying capacity of one and a half of the earth. Finns consume up to three times as much biocapacity as is sustainable. The consumption of natural resources needs to be reduced and raw materials need to be used more efficiently. The transition to a circular economy, the more efficient use of raw materials and equipment and the prevention, recycling and recovery of waste are essential. The circular economy also offers new opportunities for Finnish business and companies. The solutions for land use, housing, construction and transport have a significant impact on climate emissions. The role of cities is important here, because more and more people live and work in cities and this trend is not changing, but is on the contrary increasing. Correction and new construction and urban planning need to move more towards energy-efficient, energy-saving and even energy-producing solutions. Public investment must be directed towards rail and public transport projects supporting closer housing. For example, the Tampere tram project, which will be decided by the Council at the end of this month, is precisely the kind of investment in sustainable public transport that is needed to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement. The role of cities as a platform for innovation and new smart solutions must be strengthened. Municipalities and cities also play a key role in reforming energy production through municipal energy companies. The fight against climate change is not only a challenge but also an economic opportunity for Finland, as for all other countries. However, this requires a strong investment in research, innovation and product development. The government's extensive cuts in higher education, among other things, weaken Finland's competitiveness, especially from the point of view of expertise and innovation. Economic and legislative instruments play a major role in achieving the emission reduction targets. Economic policy must be in line with climate objectives. Taxation, various support schemes, investments, an effective emissions trading system and, accordingly, a supranational carbon tax play an important role in reducing emissions and controlling consumption. At the latest, it must be internalised that climate policy is an economic policy and vice versa. Mr President! I warmly support the proposal that Parliament should approve the Paris Agreement of December 2015 in Paris, which is subject to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u10	The next item is the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u11	Mr President! The Paris Agreement is historic. For the first time, binding emission limits are set in practice for all countries of the world. After all, the negotiating countries represented 95% of global emissions. It is also the first time that an international agreement has set an upper limit for climate change to 1.5°C, well below 2°C. This means that global emissions must be brought to zero by the middle of the century and fossil fuels must be phased out quickly. It has already been said here that the agreement is coming into force in record time. Thank you, Minister Tiilikainen and the Finnish Government, for contributing to the rapid ratification of the Treaty by the EU. But historical is also a challenge: man is by his own actions turning the climate of the home planet into a different climate than ever before at a time when the human species, the gay sapiens, has walked on Earth. It is a question of whether human civilization has not only history but also a future. The cornerstone of climate negotiations and climate policy is the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which was signed in Rio in 92 years ago on behalf of Finland by President Koivisto and Minister of the Environment Pietikäinen. On that basis, the first step was the Kyoto agreement, which was negotiated under the leadership of the then German Minister for the Environment, Angela Merkel. Kyoto is a much criticised and, in many ways, an unsatisfactory but necessary step, without which the Paris Agreement would not have arisen. An encouraging example of the functioning of international environmental agreements is the Montreal Protocol, which, in 87 C.E., limited the use of so-called freons that destroy the ozone layer in the upper atmosphere, which happened very quickly. But the F-gases that replaced them, or hydrofluorocarbons, are very powerful greenhouse gases, and last week, under the Montreal Protocol, a major agreement was reached in Kigal, which is estimated to help mitigate climate change by 0.5 degrees. Mr President! Although the Paris Agreement itself is historic, the most important thing is the actual steak, that is to say the reduction of emissions. In that regard, the news of recent times is both good and bad. What worries me is that global warming has been very rapid. Both 2014 and last year have been one of the hottest years of measurement history, and this year is also becoming a record-hot year. For about a year, each month has been the hottest in measuring history. The good news includes, for example, these: the world’s largest emitters have started to reduce emissions. Emissions from China's energy production started to fall slightly a few years ago. US emissions have fallen at the lowest since 1990. The EU has overachieved both the Kyoto and 2020 emissions target. The prices of wind and solar energy technologies have plummeted and investments in them have accelerated so that: The International Energy Agency has changed its way of predicting their growth, as it has so far been predicting understatement. But the most important thing about the Paris Agreement is that limit to global warming. The key point of the agreement is — and we are talking far too little about it — that the emission limits set by the countries themselves so far are too high to allow climate change to remain below 2°C. Therefore, the main focus should now be on how we tighten the EU and Finland's emissions targets so that they are in line with the Paris Agreement. For too long we have been able to overcome climate objectives and claimed to be a competitive disadvantage. Yet environmental technology, or cleantech, is one of our strongest industries, bigger than the forest industry. Technology services related to energy efficiency, which is central to climate change mitigation, are the largest part of our environmental technology in terms of turnover. Finnish cleantech currently offers a solution to the heavy industry first, but we should also be able to expand environmental technology to small businesses and consumer markets. The areas of expertise that are not yet large but which are in high demand and need throughout the world and which we are well placed to develop include, for example, the smart grid, the storage of electrical energy and the energy efficiency of dwellings and buildings. Mr President! The implementation of the Paris Agreement must focus on how we beat two birds with one stone, how we speed up our efforts to mitigate climate change and reduce emissions, and at the same time how we develop solutions that are usable throughout the world, and at the same time create new jobs in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u12	Those who make comments can now register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u13	Madam President! As has been well said here, this is a truly uniquely fine and historic agreement, and it is great that Finland too is involved in this. Here I have only time to pay attention to a few key issues. Firstly, I believe that emissions trading revenue should not be returned as such, as a dry money to industry, but that it must be a question of using this money for industry, of course, but for investments that reduce pollution. Another point to which I draw attention is that this gives Finnish industry the opportunity to develop the kind of innovation that is needed here. My final point is that I am a little concerned about the fate of forests in that the bioeconomy is going to put a heavy burden on the forest, and experts have heard that this issue of carbon sinks is a very problematic one. Thirty years is by no means a carbon sink, but it takes 300 years.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u14	Madam President! This Paris climate agreement is a truly historic and ambitious agreement. It means reporting and monitoring in practice. Finland is well prepared: actions and measures are clear before ratification. We have a good level of ambition, and for that I would like to thank both the Minister and the Minister. To the brickstone, to Minister Rehn and to the entire government. There is a great deal of potential here, and it is precisely this agreement that must be seen as an opportunity, precisely in the transfer of financial flows from fossil to renewable. And just as Mr Hassi said, we really should involve cleantech SMEs in development and, for example, smart flexibility must be included in Finland, think about the development of stocks, electricity storage and the Internet of Things. These would have a lot to solve.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u15	Mr President! I myself was there in Durban's night five years ago to negotiate the road map that finally led to the adoption of the Paris climate agreement as Finland's Minister for the Environment. Five years of work and long negotiations behind. I can say that the process was not easy, and I would like to thank the Finnish Government and the current Minister for the Environment, Mr Tiilika, whose contribution to the Paris negotiations has also been praised by many. But action must now be taken, and many countries have already taken practical steps to implement new emission reductions since ratification. The world market is also moving away from carbon bubble investments to clean investments. This is a big opportunity for Finland. I ask Minister Rehn: How does the Government intend to launch emission reduction measures in accordance with our national climate law and how does the climate and energy strategy now actually accelerate energy renovations in Finland? And are you aware that the obligations of the agreement to limit global warming require new emission reduction commitments to replace those already in place, that is to say, a boost is needed for the implementation of existing commitments, even because more is needed over the next few years?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u16	Värderade Talman! Jag var på plats under climattoppmötet i Köpenhamn år 2009, och jag kommer aldrig att glömma den känsla av besvikelse som blev kvar effecter det toppmötet, så nu är det roligt att man nätligen får änna glädje i stället för besvikelse. Godkännandet av Parisavtalet är ett viktigt och ett historiskt tecken på att det internationalella samfundet äntligen tar minskningen av klimatutsläpp på allvar.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u17	Mr President! It is very good and important that the Finnish Parliament is also very united in its support for the comprehensive Paris climate agreement and its climate work in Finland. It has already been said on several occasions that, at the moment, it seems that the commitments that have been made in the European Union are not sufficient to bring us closer to this 1.5°C level. How, then, are we going to take this issue forward in Finland now? Another completely national issue, which is also linked to the ambitious objectives that the European Union must have in the development of new technologies, energy efficiency, the introduction of carbon-neutral technologies: how can Finland's policy, which currently appears to be cuts in education and innovation, respond to the fact that Finland is also the leading country within Europe in implementing these new technological innovations?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u18	Mr President! It is wonderful that the historic Paris agreement was reached, and thank you to all those who have contributed over the years. But now let's get to work and get to work. The climate and energy strategy must be updated more ambitiously. We already know that, for example, the EU target for 2030 — a 40% reduction — is not enough to cover even the 2°C target, let alone the 1.5°C target, which is a more sustainable limit for the planet and for the future. Important points have already been raised: emissions trading needs to work so that it actually directs clean technology. Clean technologies should be encouraged and targeted. In addition, there is also a need for stringent emission limits for climate reasons. The question of carbon sinks is most important now that we have to take into account all the actual emissions and that when bioenergy is used, it should be used sustainably.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u19	Madam President! Good speeches have been made in this debate. The fact that the Paris climate agreement can be adopted is in itself a very good thing. The most important thing is that as many nations as possible are involved and that, in a way, we have a common international direction to cut and reduce these various emissions. I am a little surprised at the view expressed in this debate that the management of forests is somehow a threat to climate change. For example, Mr Andersson and Mr Salolainen, in their own speeches, said in their own opinion that more protection should be given. No — if forests are protected, that means that when the forest development cycle reaches the end of it, i.e. when we are in very old forests, then they are then sources of emissions, they do not bind any coal. What Finland needs to worry about: We are the country with the most protected areas in the European Union, we have nothing to be ashamed of. Let's keep the forests in order, and the theoretical maximum growth rate of the forests is probably over there about 150 million mots while we take care of our forests. That's where the carbon sink comes from, not from any conservation goals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u20	Madam President! It is really great that we are here now and that the developed countries have approved this Paris climate agreement, but we will really look at how in practice each country is dealing with a reduction in climate emissions. There has been much discussion in this Chamber, for example, about what Finland could do to reduce the use of the oil resources already found. And much has been discussed about what Finland's attitude towards the Arctic region is. I would like to ask Minister Rehn: what do you think about what Finland could do to promote the increase in oil resources from the Arctic region, and how could we at international negotiating tables promote that no other countries would increase these found funds from that very vulnerable area?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u21	Madam President! Indeed, the historic agreement, and the aim of the agreement is to limit the temperature increase to 2°C, preferably 1.5°C. Of course, what is essential here is not the degree in itself, but what they are aiming for. I ask Minister Rehn: is my interpretation right that this also has a clear and clear link with the refugee issue? We have talked a lot about the refugee issue for precisely the reasons, and I personally see that we currently have 60 million refugees. There you will find climate change, water-related issues, erosion, soil poverty, changes in food production. One expert said that if nothing is done, we will have 250 million refugees in 2050. So is this thinking model also behind this Paris agreement and behind this temperature target?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u22	Mr President! Firstly, it is to be welcomed that the two largest world polluters, China and the United States, have committed themselves to this Paris Agreement. Our group will also be in favour of this agreement, but it seems quite unreasonable, at least personally, that we have a 39 % emission target. I hope that everyone else will now be involved in these efforts to ensure that we are not alone — we usually follow all these agreed things. And since this is so excessively high, I think it will at least increase the cost of industry and reduce it to employment in the sector. After all, abroad, even from Europe moved to Asia these companies in this field, that at least we have this kind of fear as to what will come in the future. But I hope that all countries will assume that this burden sharing is shared, that it is not just this Finland that always follows these regulations so easily and with honor. That's a good thing in itself, but...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u23	Madam President! In that sense, the Paris Agreement sets a model for international climate policy to always be as comprehensive as possible, because otherwise different unilateral emission reductions will suddenly result in the result that the actual climate change reduction will not be achieved but will result in a carbon leakage when industry flees to developing countries where there is no, or will not be, such regulation. Climate change mitigation also offers Finnish companies and Finnish expertise opportunities, especially in cleantech-sara. I would have asked the Minister: how does the Minister see that there is an opportunity to boost the success of Finnish cleantech companies in the world and their export efforts?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u24	Madam President! This is no more or less than saving the ball for future generations, and I too am extremely pleased that since that stomach landing in Copenhagen we have now reached this point. The path has certainly been long. Of course, measures should have been taken at a much earlier stage. But I'm glad we're here now. Emerging technology will provide more and more opportunities for us, but it is also a question of whether there is enough time, whether the pace at which new technologies will be introduced around the globe is sufficient and whether they will be deployed with sufficient capacity. President! I would also like to ask the Minister about this domestic situation and the relationship between these cuts in education and innovation on this big issue. When I visited VTT in my home town of Jyväskylä, I was sad that they too have a lot of different product development and research activities in relation to these issues, but unfortunately the resources to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u25	Madam President! The Paris Agreement is a big step towards a low-emission society and life. The Paris Agreement is significant, it must be recognised, although it is in a way a mixed agreement, which contains provisions which fall within the competence of both the EU and its Member States. Global climate action is also very important for us Finns. This agreement is a great opportunity for Finland, Finnish expertise, product development and exports, and this must also be taken as a great opportunity. This can also be a big step towards new construction, housing and transport solutions. Of course this is an agreement, but the practical measures will only provide the final solutions. Mr Rehn, how do you see for yourself the possibility of Finnish entrepreneurship and companies and exports in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u26	Mr President! The adoption of the Paris climate agreement is indeed an historic moment, and it is also a welcome demonstration of the decision-making capacity of the international community. Climate change is mankind's greatest threat, and for the first time it seems that there is potential and real will to stop it. However, I am concerned about whether we in Finland have fully understood what it requires of us to combat climate change and what it requires in practice. The economy, production, consumption and the whole way of life must be changed in a more climate-friendly direction. This requires investments in energy efficiency, renewable energy and emission reductions in all sectors, including housing, transport and food production, and also a reduction in climate-friendly subsidies. Our job is to stop climate change now. It can't wait any longer. That is our historic duty. There is a great deal of weight in the future energy and climate strategy, and I would like to ask: is it in line with the Paris requirements?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u27	Madam President! It is great that an agreement was finally reached in Paris on a climate agreement, because we are the last generation to be able to stop this global disaster, namely climate change. However, it is not enough that the countries have come to an agreement and that the will has been found to reduce the increase in temperature to 1.5 degrees, but that action is now needed. The real climate action in Finland will only be resolved in the future, and to a large extent in this Chamber, in what decisions we take here in relation to legislation, in what way the state will support the various parties, for example through tax incentives or corporate subsidies — are those who encourage new solutions and the reduction of fossil energy use, or are we prepared to continue and continue to grant subsidies to the industry for the use of fossil energy? In future, we should carry out a climate impact assessment in all decisions and look at them with the eyeglasses of climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u28	Mr President! In fact, the only thing that this agreement can be acceptable to us is that it is now involving the major polluter countries and that this is not going to go the way it was before, that Finland is a pioneer and unilaterally reducing its emissions and will suffer losses to its own industry and jobs, as has happened in the past. A small North country that is over-indebted, suffering from unemployment, cannot afford to be a pioneer in these matters. We must now see if other obligations are kept and then follow if others keep up with their obligations. I have no ambition for anything else in this matter but the need to get work for Finns in the future. This ambition seems to be a code word for the strongest defenders of this initiative. It's been heard in this courtroom many times.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u29	Madam President! All too often it is claimed or feared that climate protection is an enemy of employment and industry. The opposite is true, and I support this by giving four points: (1) if we are not able to reduce emissions significantly, we will lose the opportunities for economic activity that action against climate change offers; 2) the cost of combating climate change is lower than the cost of a climate disaster; 3) Many measures to combat climate change will have to be taken anyway, and it makes no sense to put money into old technology now if, in any case, we have to invest in new, more efficient energy technology in the moment; and most importantly, 4) if the global average temperature continues to rise to 2°C and well above it, it is actually quite the same thing that we are doing now — because, at that point, we have destroyed our environment so badly that hindsight and apologies will no longer help.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u30	Mr President! The Paris Agreement is very strict, but so is our government programme. Its objectives are very good. Many things seem bad after these agreements, which we are going to have to give up, but the objective is very important, and we must act accordingly. Indeed, the agreement forces us to seek new technologies: it is a deadline day by which we will have to change all over the world. This is a very good thing. This is now a great opportunity for Finland. This is an opportunity to develop our energy technology. We went there with the Environment Committee to familiarise ourselves with the activities of the University of Lappeenranta, and I must say that we have been given a lot of great new opportunities. But so also is the case at many other universities, in many other places developing these things. So now I ask Minister Rehn: what kind of investments are we working on in order to make these new technology solutions available quickly in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u31	Madam President! It is easy to continue with this when it comes to Lappeenranta. The city of Lappeenranta has also been awarded WWF Climate Capital in 2014 and 2016, and in Lappeenranta and South Karelia we are cross-cutting the operations and practices of sustainable development, clean energy and clean climate. Not only in the city, but then we have the strong energy expertise of the University of Lappeenranta, with clean energy and water and circular economy, and these are key issues that enable us to contribute regionally to a better climate. But we can also take that knowledge and example to others. Now I would ask the minister: how much of our various cities are committed and committed to this sort of thing and made it possible for the citizens of this kind of activity? In other words, we can each influence it ourselves, but we also commit the cities to a cleaner environmental policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u32	There are still ten requests for answers. Let us use them all, and then to Minister Rehn a little longer to finish.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u33	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Frågan om hur vi ska nå våra klimatmål handlar långt om hur vi producerar vår energi. För tio år sedan hade vi ett stort antal vindkraftstillverkare som i dag inte finns. De har gått under effectsom det inte fans en hemmamarknad.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u34	Madam President! It is very good that the Paris Agreement comes into force, and it is particularly good that it has a wide, global coverage. Only at the practical level will we genuinely guarantee that we will be able to achieve these good objectives in terms of climate change mitigation. It's obvious. There will be many questions in the future as to how in practice we can achieve these objectives. One key issue is technology, its renewal and renewal, and it offers significant opportunities for Finland. Similarly, we have opportunities for our forests, where we must take special care that once those mechanisms come in time, both in terms of land use and burden sharing, and the first of which have already come, they will start from the distribution of natural resources. It's all a and o. Biology must be remembered here, it has not changed anything during these millenniums, and therefore the biological base, the natural sink, must always be there at the bottom.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u35	Mr President! Now we really are at the heart of our future. There has been a little discussion here about whether Finland should be in the front or in the back, whether we have ambition or not, so I would like us all to look to the future rather than the past in this Chamber. This question is a key issue for the future of mankind — if we do not resolve this, then we do not have to think about anything else. That is why it is essential that the promises made in Paris last December by the countries of the world and by Finland are now being ambitiously redeemed, because otherwise this will be written down again, and now it is time for this to be implemented. And it has been well said here that this, when it comes to imposing restrictions, also offers enormous opportunities. It would now be good if the Minister also slightly opened up these opportunities for industrial policy, which is what this clean technology, environmental technology, also for Finland, is producing on the export market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u36	Madam President! There was concern here about the philosophy of the Finns, apparently, and I can say, at least personally, and many others, that we are very concerned about climate change. Some then disagree on the cause-effect relationship, but that is probably not the most important thing. I myself have also hoped in the debate that we will also have this explosive population growth on the planet. We had a world over-consumption day on 8 August, which means that we had already used the natural resources then, and this day is being brought forward all the time. We have many reasons: climate change, species extinction. We have very big problems to solve, and I would also like us to be on the frontlines here as well and not to think about individual comments on something. Scientists are divided about some things — I am not a scientist myself, I am not able to say cause — the consequences, but I am counting on the ideas that exist at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u37	Madam President! The prevailing view is that, in the fight against climate change, we all win, and that is why it is important that Minister Tiilikainen did a great job in Paris and that the objective of staying within 1.5°C is now common and global. Instead of attending many international meetings where these issues have been discussed, I have noticed that there are many countries, including the EU countries, for which ratification is very difficult. Surely there must be different methods of implementation in different countries, and that is why I think it is important that we, as Finland, are united in ensuring that this way of implementing Finland — the sustainable use of natural resources and the wise use of resources, the use of technology, all of this — is strongly involved, but that we are also talking about, for example, the problems that LULUCF's proposals bring to us. It's like a magic box that's not based on any science. And we must always work together to make sure that our forests can be exploited.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u38	Madam President! A rather long journey has come in the international community to achieve such a large and comprehensive, ambitious climate agreement in Paris, which I am extremely pleased about. As far as Finland is concerned, the Paris objectives would certainly have been met in any event — we have a very progressive energy policy, we have a climate policy — but from the point of view of a small northern country, it is extremely important that this is international and that global and large polluters are on the way. We must remember that, as an Arctic country, the consequences of climate change are, in fact, far more worrying for us than for some regions. I would have liked to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs about the emissions trading scheme: How would it be developed as global as possible, because at the moment it does not work sufficiently, but only at EU level? What kind of conversation could you say?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u39	Mr President! The Paris Agreement is indeed historic. After long negotiations, a sustainable and comprehensive solution was reached to tackle climate change globally. This agreement is not perfect, but it is still a turning point in building a safer and more sustainable future for future generations. The Paris Agreement is the first international agreement that really takes account of equality between generations and, therefore, our duty to take decisions that are also sustainable for those who have not yet been born. Thank you very much, Mr Tiilikainen, for his important contribution to this agreement. Mr President! The agreement is a starting point for the work that the international community is now committed to doing together to mitigate climate change, but this is also an opportunity for us, especially for clean technology companies in Finland. Demand in the world is growing, and it is up to us whether we can use this agreement also as jobs in Finland. The bioeconomy based on the sustainable use of domestic renewable natural resources is one of the most promising opportunities for jobs and employment enterprises throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u40	Three more speeches before the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u41	Mr President! Combating climate change is a big economic opportunity for Finland, and this fight against climate change also opens up important markets for us in clean energies, clean technologies. However, the fact that we can take advantage of this economic opportunity calls for our economic policy, economic governance, to be in line with climate objectives. I would like to ask the Minister two questions: The first is that Mr Ihalainen has, among other things, proposed in this Chamber that this aid scheme and the whole scheme should be implemented and that it should be seen in what way it will affect, for example, the fight against climate change. The second is the carbon tax proposed by Mr Mykkänen in September. How's he doing? Has the government taken it to its agenda? Is it currently being prepared as an alternative to an emission trading system that does not work terribly well? So, the whole business support system and then this carbon tax: what kind of further discussions have been held within the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u42	Mr President! I agree, among other things, with the representatives of Adlercreutz and Salolainen, that industry should not be given drift-dry gift money in the name of emissions trading, but, insofar as the heavy industry is supported, support money must be allocated to investments in reducing emissions and also allocated in a way that serves the development of export products that contribute to climate protection. I also find it inconsistent that many people in Finland look at the oil and gas resources under the Arctic Ocean in the eyes of the dollar images, even though we know that most of the known fossil reserves must be left on the ground if we want to curb climate change. Has the government discussed that, for reasons of consistency, the Finnish Government should direct pension funds and other large investors to disengage their funds from the fossil business and also stop contributing to the exploitation of fossil resources under the Arctic Ocean?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u43	Mr President! Indeed, there is a great deal of consensus here on this issue and it is very gratifying that also the Finns of Peru, who in the past have been very skeptical about these matters, are now involved in this joint decision by Parliament to adopt the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. These are all countries involved, for example, the Foreign Minister. Mr Soini has said very well that climate change is a direct threat to sustainable development and that the worst problems will result in poor regions. I would like to ask the Minister of State: how is Finland involved in ensuring that climate funding now helps these most affected regions and the people living there to adapt to climate change and then prevent the refugee that was already at issue here? For example, do we have a desire to develop emissions trading revenues, such as in the last government, so that they are involved in this climate finance?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u44	Next, Minister Rehn, five minutes from this podium, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u45	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! There are a lot of comments and questions. I thank you for your support for this historic agreement. This was mentioned as historic, for example, by representatives Hassi and Kaikkonen on good grounds. I would also like to thank you for a meaningful and forward-looking debate. There were so many questions and comments that even if the President were to give as much time as Mr Rehula in his second week of Question Time, which, according to my watch, was 36 minutes with questions and answers, I would not be able to answer all of them. But I will try to group these together and answer as many as I can. Firstly, Mr Adlercreutz as well as Mr Niinistö and Mr Andersson asked whether we should be even more privileged with these emissions targets now that we are making a national climate strategy and are contributing to our goals in the EU. As far as the ambition of the emissions targets is concerned, it is worth underlining the fact that the European Union is the leading international player at international level. In addition, the agreement includes an amendment every five years, and this review mechanism is actually the steak of the agreement as a whole. From this point of view, it is very important that the European Union is already making legislation to achieve these objectives, as enshrined in the Paris Agreement. Many others have only just announced its objective. In other words, we are at the international forefront in this respect, and we are doing so not only because we attach the utmost importance to reducing climate change, but also because we believe that the development of cleantech and clean solutions is the kind of music of the future that is also crucial for competitiveness and employment. It is all the more important in the future that all other countries in the world participate in these agreements, commit themselves to them in practice and thus support demand for cleantech and clean solutions, as many representatives called for. This creates demand for Finnish cleantech, which is an important opportunity for our exports, as was emphasised by representatives from Salolainen, Torniainen, Essayah and Myller, among others. Representatives Andersson and Marin asked about corporate subsidies. In this respect, I refer to what Mr Orpo said last week in Question Time and what has actually been discussed in the Government's Committee on Competitiveness today. In other words, we are launching the preparation for the setting up of business subsidies, and there is cooperation between the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and other similar ministries. At the same time, it is good to remember that many corporate subsidies also have their own purpose in steering economic and technological development. The most important business support in this respect will certainly be support for innovation and research funding, as well as support for the strengthening of renewable energy and energy efficiency. They do not go too far; they have their own purpose, which is to promote precisely the objectives that the Paris Agreement will contribute to. Representatives Essayah and Torniainen asked about cleantech and many others, and accordingly representatives of Adlercreutz, Räsänen and Leppä about export promotion. I am crystallizing what is being done on the export promotion side in this respect. We need three or four things: Firstly, we need a market, and in this respect the Paris Agreement is in fact a very important example of how forward-looking regulation will shape the market and create new markets, in this case for cleantech and clean solutions. Secondly, support for innovation and research funding is needed and this will be assessed in the mid-term review of the government. We are certainly all concerned that our funding for innovation has been falling since 2011, and that is why it was decided in the budget debate to set up a working group to assess and prepare for the mid-term debate in the spring of next year the way in which the effectiveness of both higher education and other innovation funding could be improved as well as its level. Thirdly, internationalisation services are absolutely central to companies, and in this respect Team Finland, with all its shortcomings, is a very important player. It usually does a good job. For example, Tekes, Finpro, Finnvera, Tesi work well together with provinces and ely centres and chambers of commerce. But at the same time I am well aware of the criticism of Team Finland about the entrepreneurial field, and that is why we have set up a working group a couple of weeks ago to prepare for the renewal of Team Finland in terms of how it better responds to these objectives. Finally, pilot and demo projects are needed, and key project funding is also being allocated to them. It is difficult to sell services and products that are not even in use in their own country, which is why key project funding is also directed towards them, for example, through Tekes and others, especially in the circular economy, bioenergy and generally clean solutions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u46	Then we move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u47	Mr President! The consequences of climate change for people and nature will be catastrophic if the current process continues. The Paris Treaty creates hope. It brought a new, ambitious warming limit in order to limit the rise to 1.5°C. This requires ambitious measures. It is a question of having children and their children on the planet, of having enough food for all, of farmland, of stopping biodiversity loss, of the world facing huge climate refugees, of small island states not drowning under water, of the seas not being acidified, of fish and coral survival, of polar bears being spared from extinction, of Finnish children building snowmen. There is no time to lose, as global warming of 1.5°C will already be achieved in 2024 if emissions are not cut quickly. The world is almost a degree warmer than it was in pre-industrial times. Weather phenomena associated with high temperatures — droughts, floods, landslides and hurricanes — have increased on the planet. They must be adapted and prepared in advance. The Paris climate agreement has been concluded for the period after 2020 and 195 countries are involved. The agreement will enter into force on 4 November. Countries commit themselves to voluntary emission reductions and undertake to provide their emissions data transparently. The emission promise will be discussed every five years. The USD 100 billion annual climate finance of developed countries is considered as a starting point for developing countries and its amount needs to be considered to be increased soon. The current EU emission reduction target of 40% by 2030 is not enough to cover even the 2°C target. Emissions must be cut by at least 60% by 2030. In Finland, the 1.5-degree target must be taken seriously in the energy and climate strategy. A new support system for renewable energy is needed. Environmentally harmful subsidies must be reduced and fossil fuels abandoned. Emissions reductions must be achieved urgently in all sectors. The land use sector has not yet been included in the EU's emission reduction targets, but this will change from 2020. The Commission's recent proposal encourages sustainable forestry and bio-economy, as it seeks to ensure that the carbon sink effect is maintained historically at the same level as in the past. Climate policy can only be credible if it compares the climate impact of the current situation with the climate impact of the future. Biomass has a zero factor for emissions in energy use, and that is a good thing. Its emissions are therefore not calculated by the current rules in the field of emissions trading or other energy policy. Bioenergy is not carbon neutral and deforestation reduces carbon sinks. It is therefore logical that emissions should be taken into account in the land use sector. There is also a need for a binding interim target for 2025 emission reductions in the EU. Rapid reduction of emissions will safeguard the climate and nature from uncontrolled changes. Climate change will have a significant impact on the whole of humanity and on all ecosystems if it is not urgently combated. Now that the world has awakened to the reality of climate change, there is a huge demand for clean, energy-efficient technologies and renewable energy innovations. Unfortunately, government cuts in research, universities and Tekes are striking this goal. Basic research is also very important. Many new innovations stem from natural phenomena that have survived through basic research. We do not always even know how many years away the vast applications and benefits are. Therefore, more peace of work should be given to scientists, not to strangle creativity by cutting. Climate change is a threat to humanity as a whole, and letting it get out of hand means the collapse of human living conditions, the economy and biodiversity. Our duty to our children is to prevent this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u48	Madam President! It has already been said many times here how historic we can be today. It is indeed a question of saving the ball for future generations, and not least here in Finland, where the effects of climate change may affect us among those most affected by them in the world, so this is also a matter of national importance to us. In addition to its main objective, the agreement is linked to global development policy, the eradication of poverty and inequality. The agreement relates to the economy, employment, refugee policy and biodiversity. While the Minister is still here, I would like you to take note of the fact that this broader picture will indeed be taken into account at a time when these measures will then be taken forward at national level. I have already said during the debate that there are a lot of us here who have been able to follow this process of climate negotiations for a long time now, and it is indeed a pleasure that today we are dealing with a positive step forward, because it has certainly not been an easy path. It was disappointing to me, as other representatives have described here, and it was not nice to come home from that meeting here to tell Parliament that there were hardly any wools or solutions. President! This agreement, as has already been mentioned here on several occasions, also includes significant opportunities for us Finns to develop new technologies. At the same time, it means new markets, new jobs, which, of course, we desperately need. I would like to underline the important role of the European Union as a driving force for international climate policy, and I really hope that the EU will continue to set a model for the rest of the world and serve as an example of the joint efforts of several countries to promote a better climate. There are some estimates that this Paris Agreement is also contributing to positive decisions in other areas, i.e. sectors outside the Paris Agreement, such as transport, both in terms of air transport and maritime transport. I would, however, like this agreement to be seen as a specific instrument to move these areas outside the agreement much more quickly than has been the case so far. President! However, there are risks: is there enough time for us to take action quickly enough to save the ball? After all, we now rely on these national objectives, and that is why reporting and monitoring must be very effective, and this also applies to us Finns. All the time developing technologies, increasing energy efficiency in society as a whole, and a huge shift towards renewable energies and a carbon-neutral society that is already underway, certainly provide a good starting point for meeting the climate challenge, but fear is that these technologies will not be implemented quickly enough in many countries. And if it is not enough time ago, if action is not enough, it will threaten humanity with a variety of vicious circles which, unfortunately, also feed themselves, which also cause some permanent damage to the climate and also to people. Therefore, clean climate is the best friend of the poorest, because climate change is the greatest threat to the poorest in the world, and this will, of course, also have consequences for refugees. Indeed, according to one estimate, in 2050, we could already have 250 million people on the move for climate reasons, and this may also be a conservative estimate. President! Finally, on this national implementation: We must take an ambitious step forward in these Finnish solutions, and I very much hope, as the Minister has said here, that the government will also bring concrete and sufficiently prompt action to our attention. The good thing is that this funding for innovation will also be evaluated because it has a clear link to what kind of research and product development we can also do on these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u49	Mr President! Few international agreements have recently been acclaimed as much as the Paris climate agreement. And it will actually come into force in just under a month, at the beginning of November. No wonder the contract has received so much incense. After all, it is legally binding, comprehensive, expected, necessary and revolutionary. When we talk about combating climate change, we often question the importance of action by individual people or companies if countries are not committed. Now they are, and those countries that ratify the Treaty will be obliged to plan and implement emission reductions in the future. The global objective is to limit the global average temperature increase to well below 2°C, preferably below 1.5°C. It is in Finland's interest to be strongly involved in climate change, as the changes affect us as well. However, if the growing season were to lengthen widely in Southern Finland in the future, it would not eliminate the fact that in the Arctic the increase in temperature is significantly higher than the global average. In the long term, global warming is not in Finland's best interest at all. In the Paris climate agreement, each country commits itself to its own emission reduction targets. Finland’s objectives are part of the EU’s common objectives and now become binding as part of the Paris Agreement. In Finland, greenhouse gas emissions are to be reduced by 40% compared to the level of 90. In the objectives of increasing renewable energy, Finland is already ahead of schedule. Our national target is to produce 38% of final energy consumption by 20 years with renewable energies. However, as early as 14 C.E., renewable energy accounted for 39 per cent of our energy consumption. In addition, the Sipilä Government is preparing quite extensive measures to achieve Finland’s goals of abandoning coal use and halving the use of fossil imported oil in this country. Ambition is not lacking for Finland and the Government in climate matters. Mr President! As with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, it is also important in the Paris climate agreement that both developed and developing countries commit to it. We cannot afford to exclude some of the countries from the targets. Last month, the largest emitters in the world, the United States and China, ratified the agreement. And the entry into force of the agreement also means a very large amount of financial investment in the introduction of zero-emission energy, research, renewable energies and all. Finland also played a very important role during the negotiations on the agreements as part of the European Union, and thanks to our Minister for Responsibility, Kimmo Tiilikainen, for his good management of the EU's negotiating responsibilities. Finland's position in the implementation of the agreement goes beyond our own objectives. There is a huge amount of expertise in clean technologies and energy solutions in Finland, which, with the climate agreement and the related targets, will receive a great deal of new demand as more and more countries join in climate action. There is already a really good market gap for exporting companies in the sector, and it will only grow if we know how to make good use of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u50	Madam President! Today the Paris climate agreement has been praised, but there have also been speeches that have wondered whether it would be worth leaving behind a little while to see what others are doing first, as if letting others get on thin ice and see that if they stay on the surface, let us follow. In fact, there are no ice left where we could go if we did not do it. I'm sure that when we go in the front, we'll be winners. The link between climate change and refugee crises has also emerged here, and I am absolutely convinced that I have already seen with my own eyes the result of what happens in many countries as climate change progresses as countries dry out. It is rather sad to see flocks of sheep in Jordan for whom there is no food and irrigation systems that have been abandoned when there is no more water in them. The Armenia-Azerbaidzhan crisis is a crisis in water. The root causes of the Syrian refugee problem are partly that food in rural areas was not enough when there was drought. In Africa, erosion dominates the areas and drying is really a problem. I remember Mrs Vilkuna's good saying that Finland is the only country in the world where water is mainly directed away from the field. So solutions the earth cries out, and that is where we should be involved. The fight against climate change is changing the world in very many respects. I have already talked about agriculture and water resources, but we must make changes to waste management, housing, resource wisdom. By the way, when I became an example of the town of Lappeenranta, I would like to highlight the resource wisdom project in Jyväskylä. There are many practical measures that local residents have specifically taken to seek resource wisdom, and this resource wisdom is reflected in all public procurements in the city. But a good little example of it: not every person living in an apartment building has to own a car, but can have a group car, which will then be booked with a text and the doors will be returned locked. This is the future in which, by combining it, we will have energy savings. But, of course, energy efficiency is also needed in all the actions we have. The circular economy was already strongly highlighted in the Government Programme, and that is one of the solutions to how we can do climate action. Increasing the use of renewable energy is strongly included in the Government Programme, and I believe that next year we will be receiving government proposals for this once we have gone through the energy and climate statement here. We need to make some changes in the movement and transportation. In fact, the traffic cycle makes it very much possible for us to make greater use of the technology of the future. Natural ecosystems will change, and carbon sinks will become more relevant. As Finland, we should take all the credit for what we have done to ensure that we have carbon sinks here in Finland and ensure that this LULUCF is prepared, that this scientific research is taken into account and not from the Commission's magic box with water figures that are not based on science. It is precisely forest and land use that is one of the most important issues that I believe must be affected in the process of ratification. But all in all, we can be very positive in the sense that since we were a little smart in the preparation of the Government Programme and we have taken strongly the sectors where climate change is combated, we as Finland will be among the pioneers and will be winners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u51	Madam President! The proposal proposes that Parliament approve the Paris Agreement negotiated in 2015. It is an historic agreement, and thank you to everyone who has participated in the negotiations and contributed to this progress. The aim is to stabilise greenhouse gases at a level that does not result in a dangerous disruption of the climate system. This historic agreement is also because it recognises, as it were, the fact that mankind is on the last beach: it is the last moment to act. Otherwise, the changes may be irreversible, after which it is no longer possible to make corrective movements. The agreement is also in line with the Finnish Climate Act adopted during the last parliamentary term, in which Finland's target is to reduce emissions by 80 per cent from 1990 levels by 2050. The entry into force of the Paris Agreement requires that at least 55 parties are committed to the Agreement. Among other things, this is required, and today on Tuesday 18 October the agreement has already been ratified by 81 countries. Finland should be included in this group of countries that have ratified it. Well, what is the purpose of this agreement? The government's proposal makes it quite clear that the objective is to keep the global average temperature up to below 2°C, preferably at 1.5, which is what we are trying to achieve. If we go to a more concrete level of what is behind these degrees of Celsius, one major issue is refugeeism, one of the biggest global challenges at the moment. It is estimated that there are 60 million refugees in the world at the moment, and the number is increasing. It is about human rights, the status of women and children and the prevention of trafficking in human beings, including these issues. As far as Finland is concerned, much has been said about the need to influence the root causes of refugeeism, to resolve them, and I believe that the climate agreement plays a crucial role in this. At least from this point of view, I am happy to approach forwarding the climate agreement. There are a number of reasons behind this: drought, erosion, reduced food production and, for all these reasons, increased tension, political instability and even collapsed countries. If nothing is done, by 2050 there will be many times as many refugees as 250 million, according to one estimate. This in turn means a tense climate between different countries and different continents, the need to build genuine ones, the need to isolate people from one another, human distress and suffering. For example, behind the situation in Syria there is a long-standing drought, the results of which, in all its horrors, we are now seeing where all this can lead. It is important to emphasise, as has been emphasised in this context, the opportunities offered by this agreement for research, job creation, entrepreneurship and the promotion of Finnish exports. The agreement creates the conditions and needs for the opening up of new markets, and Finland naturally deserves to be actively involved in these markets.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u52	Mr President! We are at the top of the big issue, because climate change is the greatest threat to humanity and its rejection is the greatest challenge of our time. That is our historic duty. It is great to be in Parliament now to approve the Paris climate agreement for our part. However, the climate agreement itself does not stop climate change. The climate agreement must be brought into the national decisions and solutions of each country. The effects of climate change are known to be global, but concrete action is taken at national and local level to combat it. The Government is currently working on a new energy and climate strategy. A lot of expectations are loaded into the paper, and not for nothing, as it will guide Finland's future towards a low-emission tomorrow. The strategy should set out measures for the low-emission energy system. The key words in the future energy system are decentralised production, renewable energies, demand response, smart electricity grids, energy efficiency and a Europe-wide electricity market. Housing, transport and food production also produce a lot of emissions. We must set out measures to improve the energy efficiency of the old building stock, promote climate-friendly construction methods, increase public transport, support the growth of sustainable biofuels and electric cars, promote a vegetarian diet and reduce food waste. Land use and the forest sector are key issues for Finland. Bioeconomy is an important sector for Finland and a means of reducing emissions, but national bioeconomy policies must be based on sustainable use of forests, the emphasis on high value-added products and scientific knowledge of the climate impacts of forest use. The bioeconomy can be made rationally or less rationally, and we must ensure that we use our green gold in a sensible way for the economy and the climate. Mr President! The strategy should also describe Finland's targets for the correction of emissions trading in the EU. Emissions trading has not functioned in the desired way and has no intended steering effect. In order to function, the price of allowances should be considerably higher than at present. Finland must strive to correct emissions trading, and if emissions trading cannot work, carbon taxes must be introduced. We need to get a price for coal. In a situation where a real price for CO2 emissions is achieved, the possibility of carbon leakage risk also becomes real. It can be combated by setting carbon tariffs at the EU's external borders, which would also set a price for emissions outside the EU. The path to carbon duties is much more sensible and cheaper for taxpayers to combat potential carbon leakage than corporate subsidies with tax resources. Hopefully, the forthcoming strategy will be able to meet high expectations, as we need a goal-oriented approach and strong political leadership to combat climate change. We simply can't wait any longer. The EU Commission's proposals for emission reduction targets have recently been discussed in the Parliament. The Commission's proposal is ambitious, but the challenge of combating climate change is illustrated by the fact that even the ambitious reduction targets proposed are not sufficient. In 2018, emission reduction targets are likely to be further tightened in the EU. On the face of it, the Sipilä Government’s policy to combat climate change is good. However, the Government’s practical solutions are shining through the fact that the realities of climate change have not yet been fully understood. Unfortunately, the government seems to focus its energy on minimising the EU's emission reduction targets for Finland and inventing new inefficient business subsidies instead of using resources to create and implement new good emission reduction measures. Mr President! Stopping climate change in time is not easy. It will be difficult for every country. Finland has the potential to survive the next decades as a winner if we just take a new attitude to overcome the climate challenge. The fight against climate change costs money, but much more costs not to fight climate change, both humanly and economically. Mr President! Combating climate change also opens up business opportunities. High levels of knowledge, innovation and coherent policies are the key to solving climate change and generating new, sustainable growth and work. It is clear that renewable energy, energy efficiency, green industry, raw material efficiency and the circular economy are the megatrends of the future that give leading economies significant business and significant export opportunities. Although climate change is a terrible threat, fighting it is also an opportunity for new, more sustainable economic development.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u53	Mr President! The fight against climate change is, of course, an important common issue, but I am a little surprised at Mr Sarkkinen's contradictory speeches when you accuse the government of simply trying to minimise these objectives. You now forget that carbon sinks in forests have been a major means of curbing climate change in Finland and it is still significant. In your own speech, you also pointed out that you see the bioeconomy as a great opportunity, but now something about this is going through the fact that we are trying to drive two wheels. So I would have asked Mr Sarkkinen: do you see the bioeconomy as a great opportunity for Finland or not?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u54	Mr President! Bioeconomy is an opportunity for Finland, but it is reasonable to use it. In the case of tall oil, for example, it makes much more economic sense to use tall oil for high-processing purposes than, for example, only for biofuels. We must ensure that we direct the limited bio-resources to the most rational use of the economy, and this must be our common interest. In other words, we need to optimise the use of all forest resources, and the bioeconomy is a great economic opportunity and also an opportunity for the environment. But then, when I criticize the government for focusing on the wrong things. Yes, when the Commission's proposals have been discussed in committee, it seems important to try to make Finland's share of the EU's emission reductions as small as possible, rather than using it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u55	Mr Myller, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u56	Mr President! Just as here in the Finnish Parliament Hall, there seems to be a good global ability to bring climate goals to the finish line. Since China and the United States, the European Union has also ratified the agreement. On this path, it is good to continue and further strengthen the political and economic drivers that introduce new carbon neutrals and carbon sequestration technologies, energy efficiency, renewable energy. A new methodology for building a global climate agreement was adopted in Paris. All parties undertake to achieve their own specific emission reduction targets. The agreed long-term goal that global temperature does not rise above 1.5°C is ambitious and challenging, but many experts question the adequacy of the earth to remain viable everywhere. In its own calculations, the United Nations Environment Agency (UNEP) has concluded that all CO2 emissions in the world must reach zero before 2050, and this 1.5-degree target would be achieved with only 85% certainty. The EU has agreed on its own actions to achieve the commitments of the Paris Agreement. The target is a reduction of at least 40% of CO2 emissions from 1990 to 2030. Many people have already said that this is not enough, that the EU must tighten up its target in order to really be on a global path leading to this objective of 1.5°C. Climate targets should therefore be at a level that requires efforts to develop new policies and new technologies. Compared to this objective, the EU 40% reduction target has been seen to be too low. It is not ambitious enough for new inventions to be made. That is why these issues need to be addressed openly, because it is important for growth and jobs within the European Union that the EU countries remain at the top of their competences. There is now a good opportunity for amendments to this objective, because it is part of this Paris agreement that the objectives of the agreement are reviewed every five years. Within the EU, we need to raise the issue of whether the current allocation of emissions trading and non-emission trading sectors is effective and sufficiently encouraging to make cost-effective climate solutions. Incentives, such as taxes and EU-wide mechanisms for emissions trading, must be made to work in the same direction throughout the internal market. Economic instruments must support an ambitious climate policy. The EU's 2030 climate targets are currently being prepared, and now it is time to bring these new, updated targets to the debate. Finland should have its own presentations here. We should, for example, raise the emissions trading compensation now in the debate to be jointly weighed by the EU so that we can change it so that it is precisely innovation-oriented rather than just business support. It is also important that the Paris Treaty review mechanism is implemented transparently and with the aim of achieving a realistic policy based on scientific data to reduce emissions as agreed. In practice The implementation of the Paris Agreement therefore means that all greenhouse gas emissions in Europe must be at zero in 2050. This is now important to note in Finland's own energy and climate strategy. Sufficiently ambitious climate targets must be seen in Finland as an opportunity to create new innovations on an industrial scale and so that small and medium-sized enterprises can also do this. In this respect, what has now been done, hundreds of millions of cutbacks from education, research and innovation, does not in any way support the opportunities that Finland has and should have in these joint efforts to combat climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u57	Mr President! In the words of the debat: it is positive that the two world's largest greenhouse gas emitters, China and the United States, committed themselves to the Paris Agreement this year, in September. In addition, many other key countries for international climate policy, such as India, Brazil and Canada, have already committed themselves to the agreement. The United States has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol and has not participated in the fulfilment of its emission reduction commitments for the first and second commitment periods and is therefore, for the first time, involved in these emission reduction measures. The aim of the proposal is to obtain Parliament's approval of the Paris Agreement. The objective of the Paris Agreement is to keep the global average temperature increase well below 2°C and to try to limit the average temperature increase to 1.5°C relative to pre-industrial time. There are also claims that, according to the study, the global climate would not have risen on average for 19 years, even though the amount of carbon dioxide has increased. But the agreement aims to strengthen adaptability and climate resilience and to direct financial flows towards low-emission development. If we think about what has happened in this climate, we know that winters have warmed up in Finland and elsewhere, but summers may not be so warm anymore, sea levels are rising, floods are getting worse in some places — and is it threatening these low island states? There are tropical storms, droughts, and the melting of the earth’s glaciers is feared. That would be a disaster if Greenland, for example, melted — it has been foretold, but it will take tens of thousands of years. Then there is a water shortage in densely populated areas, such as Africa and Asia, and we also know in practice that there are famines and there will be various problems, and partly because of this flow of refugees in the world, which is not going to end. If you think of Finland again, the growing season may be extended, and it has also been said that shipping will be easier if that northern stream opens up. In my opinion, this proposal contains very little information on the economic impact on Finland. Estimates of impacts for Finland will be made in the context of measures in line with EU emission reduction targets and nationally selected actions. The Paris Agreement therefore obliges developed countries to continue supporting and providing information on climate action in developing countries. However, the agreement itself does not say anything about the level of climate finance. According to the decision of the Conference of the Parties to the Paris Agreement, the joint goal of the industrialised countries to mobilise around USD 100 billion per year for climate action will be extended to 2025 and then agreed on these other targets. The Paris Agreement is a so-called mixed agreement which contains provisions which fall within the competence of both the EU and its Member States. As I said here in the debate on this burden-sharing, I believe that this emission target of 39% is too high. Finland must continue to be able to decide its own forestry and energy policy, and we cannot commit to agreements that undermine our country's economy and employment. The forest is our green gold. Already so far, energy-efficient industries have been closed down from Finland as well as within the EU and moved to Asia into a freer area of pollution. I do not think that such a development is right. But, Mr President, I hope that everyone will be in this balanced position: as I said in the debate, Finland will try to comply with these objectives, but it will not help that such a small plaque here in the northern part of the world alone will try to alleviate this climate change, but it should be the will of every nation and continent if it is to be that real climate change could be improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u58	Mr President! Life here on Tellus is based on the greenhouse effect, and the earth's temperature is based on energy balance. When the climate changes, there will be a temporary deviation from the balance. It is claimed that the increase in greenhouse gases in the atmosphere will reduce the removal of thermal radiation into space and the temperature will increase until the balance is re-established; it is assumed that the underlying cause of warming is greenhouse gases that contain heat. By the end of this century, carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere are likely to double. There are other opinions, such as the claim that the presence of sunspots is of great importance. There are examples in history when the spots disappeared for a long time, including Maunder's minimum of 1645 to 1715 and the second minimum, Dalton's minimum of 1790 to 1820. During both minimum periods, the climate cooled sharply. At the end of the 17th century, Europe experienced the coldest phase of the so-called small ice age. But my conclusion is that The Paris Agreement is not a bad option because raw materials should be used sparingly and emissions should be limited. But I cannot accept tougher targets for Finland. It is not fair, and our competitiveness will not stand up to it when the superpowers are allowed to do things differently and do things differently. The Commission proposal sets an excessively high emission reduction target of 39% for Finland, which, if implemented, will increase the costs of Finnish industry and thus reduce employment in the sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u59	Mr President! I believe that the current debate on the adoption of the Paris agreement on climate change has been good and constructive. However, I would like to see a little more realism in this debate. The Paris Agreement itself is a very good one, and what is important is that all the leading industrialised countries are involved in it. We must remember that without the involvement of China, India, the USA, Russia or Brazil, such an agreement would be forced into the torso. The agreement is typically a mixed agreement, which means that both the provisions laid down by the European Union and national provisions are being used in this area within the European Union, they are also possible. This is a good thing because it will increase the range of instruments to meet these emission requirements. Global warming can be restricted by different options, not only EU-led, but also national. That is an extremely important issue. However, the cold fact in the world today is that fossil fuels still account for about 30% of the world’s energy production. The increase in the use of hard coal in recent years has been about as high as the use of renewable energy in the world, excluding hydropower. So the annual increase in the use of coal has been greater than the renewable energy used in this world. This is realism. And when you look at these statistics, how huge a number of new coal-fired power plants are currently being planned in this world, about half of them go to China and India, well over half of them are from new coal-fired power stations in China and India. And as for the Fukushima nuclear accident in Japan, for example, due to the tsunami caused by the earthquake, after which Japan shut down the nuclear power plants for the most part, I think it all went away for a while. All the power lost in electricity generation through this method was replaced by carbon power. Nothing but coal power. That what some Japan spends a year on coal, in that measure class, the measures taken by Finns are nothing more than tiny drops in the Atlantic Ocean. In other words, the proportions of this debate have been somewhat different. Finland is a pioneer in renewable energy as measured by the European Union, and it is also a highly clean technology expert, in every way. So from this point of view and from the point of view of the climate agreement, Finns have nothing to be ashamed of. We can burp our chests right here. In the future, climate policy and other policies on this continent, Finland must ensure that we do not undermine our ability to act and, above all, the ability of industry to act in this country. For example, in this sharing of the external burden of emissions trading currently under way in the European Union, or in the sustainability criteria for renewable energy, we must defend national interests as effectively as possible. And the possibility of increasing the use of forests and the way in which they are viewed during this debate demonstrates the quality of this debate: in fact, many representatives want the use of forests to be restricted and seen as a source of emissions, while the biological truth is that the better we manage our own forests, the better the forest grows and binds up carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. It's a biological fact. As Mr Leppä, chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, said in his own speech, this biological fact must indeed be recognised by all the Member States of the European Union, and the Finnish negotiators must pursue a policy in the European Union in which these facts are also the basis of the agreement. There can be no hope or imagination, but realism that Finland’s forests grow 105 million mots a year, and when felling is 65 million this year, the distance between it, about 40 million cubic metres, is the carbon sink that remains in the forests, and if the forests are managed even better than they are now, the theoretical maximum is probably close to 150 million mots that Finland’s forests can grow. We need to remember the history from where we started. After World War II, Finland’s forests grew by about 50 million mots. Then, according to the latest forest inventory of the completed kingdom, the current growth is the 105 million mots, which means an increase of more than 50 million mots, which is precisely due to determined forest management measures, many of the many things that have taken place in Finnish forests in recent decades. If we make sure in the coming decades that forests are properly thinned, the trout are well managed and the forests are used, then this carbon sink will not grow. Recognition of this fact should be put on the head of Finnish politicians, that when the European Union goes to the negotiating tables, there will be no compromises in this matter. It is our national interest, but it is also the truth that does not change anything, whether you look through green or red or any color. That truth never burned before. According to my memory, a magazine used to be called that — it could not be used as a sauna lighter when it did not burn. In any case, however, it is important to note national interests in this climate policy. Finland is on the right track here. We've done our own business well. We have clean technology, we have very high maintenance technology, we have high energy technology and, above all, we have know-how. And I'm just looking forward to the day when the United States, which is the world's largest energy consumer and the world's top technology, actually has a point of view here. After all, they have the potential of technology at their disposal: the huge university mass there, the huge amount of money and, above all, the state-of-the-art technology capable of developing renewable energy, solar energy, wind energy and anything at a huge rate. In other words, the United States is quite crucial here, as is Europe, but the United States has the advantage of having the great economic intensity that Europe unfortunately does not have at the moment. Hopefully, this climate agreement will move forward. The Treaty must of course be ratified, but this must bear in mind this national interest. I would not be able to accept the fact that this is a policy that is aimed at restricting, for example, the use of domestic forests. It is completely foreign if such a policy is taken. Yes, the Finnish people have the right to take advantage of the opportunities that we have once had here on earth. After all, we must be able to use this small flat here in the north, in the northern hemisphere, for the benefit of the Finns and the well-being of the Finnish people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u60	Mr President! Such agreements when made, it is usually so that the superpowers walk over the small powers, it has been proven many times in history. And we in Finland can jump to the height and hit that hairless chest to wash from here. That is not going to change the situation on this earth. The problems are elsewhere than in Finland, and that is why I am a little critical of this whole agreement. The Government is committed to the market-based implementation of the 2030 climate and energy package. International competitiveness of industry and the fight against carbon leakage are key elements of climate policy. The Commission's proposal cannot be implemented on market terms and would jeopardise the competitiveness of our industry and would further accelerate the flagging out of Finnish industry in the EU. In Finnish: Carbon leakage would accelerate within the EU. Finnish workers would be forced to go to kilometer factories and would pay both extra tax on this experience adventure and higher price of gas and electricity. As a result of the calmness of the previous two governments, the competitiveness of Finnish industry has already been sacrificed to the altar of EU climate policy at 30% compared to the main competitor countries. This is one of the key reasons why many people are now having to compromise. This road has now been completed. Finland must defend the competitiveness of our industry at the EU climate table and not be an involuntary marinate. Mr Hoskose had a very good speech about this and must bow in that direction. Mr President! At the end of August, Mr Terho stated that the reduction target for emissions outside the 39 % emissions trading would not be met. The Commission's proposal was contrary to the government programme. The Commission’s proposal cannot be implemented on market terms without jeopardising the competitiveness of the country’s industry. The over-high target would accelerate carbon leakage, i.e. the flagging out of Finnish industry to other countries, possibly outside the EU. It is unreasonable that, where Finland's reduction target is 39%, the targets for countries that are far more polluting should be minimal: for example, Poland's 7%, Romania's 2% and Bulgaria's 0%. Those countries where emission reduction investments would be less expensive are aiming at minimal emission reductions. Countries with the highest levels of investment aim to achieve maximum emission reductions. In this respect, the Group of the European People's Party suggested that the EBRD should start funding climate projects in Poland, Romania, Bulgaria and others to meet the EU's overall objective. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u61	Mr President! There has been a rather one-sided debate in this Chamber today on the Paris climate agreement, and that is a good thing, and indeed when such an historic agreement is at stake. I would divide this into perhaps two parts of my own reflection. On the other hand: what meaning The Paris Agreement is global? And then, on the other hand, what does it mean in Finland, and what kind of measures does it require of us? It is particularly good that this Paris Agreement is being discussed and really looking at the issues that have been brought to a concrete level for the first time with regard to common objectives and obligations. Perhaps the minus in this Paris climate agreement is this lack of binding emission reduction targets, and would have liked to have had the courage of the countries of the world to take that line as well. But all in all, the issue of climate change and the Paris climate agreement is a question of intergenerational justice. After all, we have this earth on loan from future generations, and it is now our responsibility to deliver on the promises that the countries of the world made in Paris for future generations. It goes without saying that meeting these promises requires ambition and concrete measures from all of us. This will enable us to achieve the objective of achieving this average temperature increase of less than 2°C and will aim for 1.5 in the longer term. It is good to remember in this Chamber that when we talk about this rise in temperature, it specifically affects Finland, because in these areas the rise in mean temperature is even harder. The steak in this agreement, as the Minister has also pointed out, is precisely these mid-term reviews every five years, where these measures will then be examined and tightened up, not relaxed. It goes without saying that an amendment is needed if these objectives are to be achieved. The key question really is that all countries are involved. This is a global issue, and it is quite right, as has been said here, that the biggest polluters of their size are also the most important countries that are capable of combating climate change. Many good speeches have been made here on what all this climate change affects, and it is all right that the issue has been raised here, for example. This is the root cause of refugeeism. When we have discussed this issue quite a number of times in this Chamber, if we really want to secure the conditions for life all over the world, it will also require measures to combat climate change, and this will also enable us to combat these root causes of refugeeism. Mr President! Then, how this agreement affects Finland and how it affects our business life, about which many speeches have been made here: It is precisely this national implementation that is at stake, and this national policy, on the one hand, must guarantee investment security for the various actors involved, but also to best effect these obligations on our own legislation and activities. In this work on combating climate change, where Finland is already in a good career, it should not be seen that this is a conflict between the economy and the environment, but a question where the economy and the environment can really shake hands and both benefit from it. The implementation of this agreement opens up huge new opportunities, and many examples have also been used here, and we really need to tackle them — the circular economy, the bioeconomy, clean technologies. It goes without saying that we need new innovations in energy production, transport, housing and food production, and if we seize these opportunities with an ambitious policy, it is really possible to get new stone legs for exports from these areas as well and, in that way, to increase employment in Finland. Of course, this requires a reference market at home. Without them, it is difficult to see that our companies can take over the international market. And in this respect, it is essential to remember that our business support system should in future be more supportive of the birth of a new one than of the preservation of the old one. And it was a pleasant line from the minister that the government is also going through this package and possible changes to it. Quite a lot of expectations now lie in the Government's energy and climate strategy, and hope that the Government will take the line that Finland will contribute to ensuring that the things agreed on in the Paris Agreement are implemented and that we go ahead with them, because that is the case, that we have only one planet and that it is not worth a lot of history to explore, but rather to take a bold stand for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u62	Mr President! The Paris climate agreement is an important achievement for the international community. In the best case scenario, it is an historic document whose significance the children of our grandchildren will be grateful for in due course. It is the most credible instrument for halting global warming from the agreements to date. It is not a perfect or sufficient solution to safeguard the vitality of our civilisation and planet, but it is important because the treaty is backed up by all the countries that are crucial to climate change mitigation. By means of emission reduction measures, all parties undertake to limit the global average temperature increase to below 2°C. China and the United States as well as Brazil, India and Canada are also involved. This is of great importance in the global economy, where production is sought where the costs are lowest. Emissions reductions at the same time, such as in Finland or Europe, will not pose the same risk of carbon leakage or the Chinese phenomenon. Each industry in the States Parties will have to invest in reducing emissions, regardless of country. A broad international consensus and commitment to practical measures to reduce emissions will trigger huge demand potential for clean technologies and new energy solutions. A safe and productive future for such investments is now opening up when there is no return to the past. There's no going back to fossils, even though it still seems that way somewhere. Such investment-incentive research should be supported by the state. The Paris Agreement is built on progressively tightening emission requirements. The Parties to the Agreement shall be obliged to draw up and communicate their emission reduction targets every five years. The Paris Agreement does not oblige the parties to specific numerical emission reduction targets, but undertakes to prepare, maintain and update their national emission reduction targets. The new objectives must be more advanced than those previously set. The first updated target should be notified to the UN Secretariat for Climate Change by 2020. Whether the Paris Agreement will succeed in halting global warming in line with the objective is uncertain. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, it is quite obvious that global warming after the middle of the 20th century is man-made. There is a fairly large, somewhat complete consensus among scientists on this. If the planned national contributions to climate change mitigation so far are implemented, the impact on emissions and global warming will be significant. The explanatory statement of the Government's proposal states that it is estimated that the national contributions made so far will reach a level of around 2,7-3°C as the climate warms up, which is a significant improvement on the previous development path of 3,5-4°C. I mean, something's been done. However, these initial promises are not yet sufficient to bring global emissions on a path that allows for a warming of up to 2°C. Warming of more than 2 degrees is considered fatal for humans, for life, for civilization. Mr President! Now we are clearly on the right track, but will it take us there, is it enough time, are we on time? This is uncertain. It is also uncertain how the parties to the agreement will begin to take concrete measures to reduce emissions. There may be a slightly different view of the validity of contracts on different sides. No reservations can be made to the agreement, but its signatories commit themselves to it in all its aspects — as stated in that government proposal, and this is, of course, a good thing in principle. It is then reported that the contracting party may, however, terminate the contract if he so wishes. Article 28 contains provisions on termination of the contract. Paragraph 1 allows a Party to terminate the Agreement at any time after three years from the date of entry into force of the Agreement for that Party. Of course, there are always uncertainties of this kind in these international agreements, but a good move forward is this. Mr President! The more clearly and unquestionably global warming begins to appear, the more favorably and seriously the parties undertake to comply with the Paris Agreement they have signed. Finland is friendly, Finland is nice, and it is good.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u63	Mr President! Climate change is here now. There are few doubters to this claim, but there is a wide range of views on the ambition of international climate agreements as to whether it is too strict or too loose. The climate agreement reached in Paris last December obliges the countries of the world to look for ways to keep the global average temperature rise well below 2°C in relation to pre-industrial time. So we are on the way to reducing fossil fuels and even replacing oil with renewable energies. In the agreement, the countries committed themselves to achieving their own emission reduction targets. This means that we ourselves, at national level, will also consider the means by which we will be able to achieve these objectives at national level. Our country's emission reduction targets on climate agreement issues focus on the creation of clean solutions, such as low-emission transport solutions, biofuels, the digitalisation of transport and logistics and energy solutions for construction. Furthermore, of course, we will have an impact on the implementation of reforms in other Member States and on good practices and examples that we can create with our own knowledge. Finland therefore signed this Paris Agreement with the EU and its Member States. It is now a matter of ratification of the Treaty. It is clear that not all countries have yet made such a dedication. 79 parties to the agreement have ratified and 191 countries have signed the agreement, so many countries still have a long way to go. At present, this means that 60% of global emissions have been ratified by so-called national decisions. The climate agreement, even this Paris agreement, will create new business opportunities for us. Among other things, our country has a lot of cold expertise. It is being studied and developed very much. 60% of the world’s icebreakers are made in Finland, and oil control and everything else related to cold expertise in any way is hard business in Finland and outside Finland’s borders. With these investments and product development, of course, we want to ensure that the living conditions in the northern regions are guaranteed and sustainable environmental solutions can be implemented in the various cold areas of the planet. There has been talk of Finnish forests and carbon sinks in this Chamber, and I agree with the choir that wishes and wishes to decide that our forests, carbon sinks, will remain within the scope of national law and the power of decision. So I have also heard that, by the time we reach the Marrakesh climate agreement in Morocco, there will be no carbon sink calculations on the table, that is to say, new ones, but we ourselves can at present think about the national measures that will enable us to achieve and reach the objectives of climate change and climate agreements, and I hope and wish to see that our forests will not at least be harnessed under these agreements. It is noticeable that biomass are also being imported from outside Finland's borders at the moment, and all I ask is: how sustainable is this economy, as we currently have more forest growing annually than we can even make sustainable use of it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u64	Mr President! There have been a lot of good and very unanimous speeches here, including the previous representatives, Mr Vehkaperä and Mr Hokkonen, and I am not going to repeat them so much. I would just like to draw attention briefly to the enormous potential of the new export business that this Paris agreement entails. For example, the Vaasa region, where 2 per cent of our country's population live, leaves more than 30 per cent of the country's energy technology exports, and elsewhere in Finland there are excellent examples and potentials in this area. There's a lot of potential worldwide.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u65	Mr President! I would like to make a few clarifications on the points that have been made in this debate. Representative Mäkipää referred to those who claim that the climate has not warmed up in 17 years. In reality, 2014 was the hottest year in the history of measurement until then, its record was set in 2015, and this year is very likely to be a new record year: for about a year each month has hit the temperature record in the history of measurement. Mr Mölsä referred to the so-called small ice age and a few other cool climate cycles. However, it is worth a closer look at climate history. After the last ice age, during the period from the beginning of farming to the beginning of the era of industrialization, the difference between the coolest and warmest climate did not exceed one degree. Last year, on the other hand, was already a whole degree warmer than the average climate before industrialisation began. If the earth warms up at more than 2 degrees Fahrenheit, we will move on to a climate that has not existed during human civilization or, above all, during the existence of the human species. Mr Hoskonen wanted China, the United States, Brazil and Russia among others. To the delight of Mr Hoskosen, the Paris Agreement has already been ratified by, among other things, China, the United States, Canada, Brazil, India — 81 countries in total. Mr Hakkarainen suggested that in international agreements the big countries overturned the small ones. I myself have once been a minister in four international climate negotiations, and in addition to Minister Tiilikainen, there is at least a similar experience with the representatives of Haavisto and Ville Niinistö and, in addition to them, the State Secretary Paula Lehtomäki. I believe that the experience of all of us is that, as part of a joint negotiating team between EU countries, Finland's influence is much greater than it would be if we negotiated alone. If we did, we could really be overrun. Mr Hakkarainen criticised the so-called burden sharing within the EU. Let me remind you that it is only a part of the emissions. After all, in all EU countries the same common emission reduction target applies to heavy industry, which is subject to emissions trading, as is electricity production. In other words, this so-called burden sharing applies only to non-emission trading sectors such as transport and agriculture. I would also like to remind you that at the time of the Kyoto agreement, Finland was given a facilitated target within the EU: when the EU as a whole promised to reduce emissions by 8% in Kyoto, Finland's obligation was 0% compared to 90 levels. Many representatives have stressed the importance of intergenerational justice here, and quite rightly so. It is not just a question of the future of unborn generations. The year 2050 is the lifetime of people of today’s working age, and the year 2100 is the life span of today’s small children. Mr President! We should stop looking in the rearview mirror. The Paris Treaty can be a milestone and a road map for the future of mankind, similar to the programme of Forssa approved by the SDP in 1903 for us Finnish and Finnish welfare states, which paved the way for what Finland is now. The implementation of the Paris Agreement must indeed focus on how we strike two birds with one stone, how we speed up our efforts to mitigate climate change and, at the same time, develop solutions that are useful throughout the world and at the same time create new jobs. Finally, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the broad support expressed in this debate for the ratification of the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u66	Mr President! I just want to make it right for Mr Hassi that I did not claim that the temperature of the earth has not risen for 19 years, but I said that some people do. That is what I know that in 40 years the temperature has risen by about half a degree. That this will be fixed in those books.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u67	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u71	Mr President! If I have enjoyed anything recently, so much so that the Paris climate agreement is now really moving forward and almost 95% of the world's countries are now committed to this agreement and to these emission reduction targets. We really must hope that the agreement will now also succeed in monitoring the implementation of the emission reduction targets designated by these countries. It is very important that global warming is halted or that it can now be slowed down with this agreement. Many international crises now and in the future are starting to face the problems of global warming. Much has been said about the links between this crisis in Syria and climate change. For this reason, too, it is very important for global responsibility that we now try to deal with this big problem of humanity as a whole, and thank you very much for that. For Finland, this debate has, of course, spoken about the actual application of the EU and how, in its own legislation, the EU will oblige the Member States to achieve these objectives, and here explicitly this relationship between the land-use sector and the burden-sharing sector. I agree with what has been said in this debate that we must try to recognise the importance of forest management, then the growth of these carbon sinks, of course. The Natural Resources Centre also has evidence. Mr President! Finally, this also has a number of beneficial effects on the Sipilä Government's programme. In view of the implementation of the Government Programme, the use of coal will be reduced
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u72	Mr President! There's a few things I haven't said yet. The first is that this climate debate, which has inspired this agreement in Paris, has been good and of a high standard, but it is good to remember that the worrying crack in this debate is that this climate policy has clearly sought to attack the fact that the forests of Finland should not be used. In some circles, even some of the speakers have made it clear that the aim is to seek restrictions on the use of Finnish forests because they are supposed to be carbon sinks or by treating forests with carbon sinks. That is not true. Those who keep such fanciful ideas rolling around in their heads should recognize the facts. If the forests are managed well, thinnings will be done on time and the forests will also be dared to renew, build wooden houses, use increasingly modern methods — wood is made of wood, even a composite that will certainly replace plastic in the future — this would be the best environmental policy this country will ever be able to do. We currently have huge research projects in large forest industry companies to study, for example, the substitution of plastic with domestic, renewable raw materials, various materials made from wood that can be made up of plastic bag substitutes. At the moment, the world’s greatest problem with the seas is the huge quantities of plastic that flow through the sea. Every person walking by the sea knows that. Plastic is everywhere, and that is a huge problem for our entire food chain. That's one of our biggest environmental problems. If and when these can be replaced with materials such as materials made from Finnish wood, whatever they are – I don’t even know everything, but my good friend in this project is working all the time and progress is wild – we have huge opportunities. Let us not spoil them with irresponsible political objectives, which are aimed at ensuring that there is no more use of forests. And, my friends, these forests are located in Finnish countryside. I understand that many politicians who are trying to concentrate are annoyed by the fact that they can still live in rural areas. In any case, these forests are definitely in Finnish rural areas, they are not moved anywhere from there, as are the opportunities of the extractive industry and many others, the possibilities of clean groundwater and so on. If we go into the political cycle where the aim is to bring down the countryside and one way of doing so is to prevent the use of raw materials — and that is what many political groups are trying to do — to completely depopulate the countryside by preventing the use of land, the use of forests, the use of raw materials — this is the stupidest policy I could imagine. In this country, we need to make sense of this policy. After all, we cannot continue to do so, where the use of our own raw materials is restricted and imported goods live. The Paris Agreement offers the possibility that we can also make these own good opportunities export products. Mr Joakim Strand mentioned this very well in his speech what opportunities we have to produce new products and create new jobs in this country. The competitiveness objectives that we ourselves have set in our government programme will never be achieved if we are unable to create a new one. With our old lunches, all we can do is take five billion dollars a year in debt. It must be perfectly clear to this house, to the people who work in this house, to the parliamentarians, above all. I hope that realism returns to this house. One example, Mr President, is that, for example, domestic renewable fuels should be taken: Are they made of wood, peat, or what are they made of? That is the best climate policy when the use of fossil fuels ceases or decreases substantially whether it is natural gas, whether it is diesel fuel, crude oil products, whatever they are. If these are replaced by goods made from renewable materials, then the victory is enormous, and that is what we must strive for, without horns and teeth. If we get smart about whether we have a sustainable use of wood or if it's not sustainable... Finns do the best forestry work in this world, and we don't have to take a course for that. We must have a little more open-mindedness and, above all, we must accept that we can live in those bottoms as well. If we want to concentrate here, it costs more and more. How many more billions do we want to pay in this country for housing or income support for the absurd concentration of money? This is also a bio-policy, the sensible policy that must be pursued in Finland. If we don't use our own options, then we'll take more debt. That's what this is. It's not that hard to do this job, just keep your senses in hand and introduce the possibilities that exist in Finland. It's not about knowledge anymore. It looks like it's about attitude.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u73	Mr President! There was another good speech by Mr Hoskose. - It's history, ice age, everything. I wonder how the ice age would have been rejected if then, even if before the previous ice age, there was such a civilization? I wonder how that would have been rejected. I don't think there's any way. Then there would have been just talk like now, that now comes such a warming of the climate and everything possible. You have to be realistic. Of this use of forests, as much as it is attacked and tried to drive the forest industry away from here and everything — some circles like this all the time push out here: Finnish forests have burned up about 250 years apart. So then the old decaying forests that caused emissions, burned and caused more emissions, so how did it not become that climate change at the time, but it comes now, when the forests are being managed and there are no such problems? That is why I am surprised that the little one here should look at this situation in Finland, and that the whole earth should not be taken care of in this area of pin size, what is on this earth. It doesn't have any effect on what we're doing here. No matter how much we pollute, it does not affect the earth’s situation. Even if we sail on sailboats here, ride horses and walk on foot, that doesn't affect anything, it's such a nonexistent situation. We must keep to our own competitiveness, industry and especially that forest industry now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u74	Mr President! I do not think that, with a policy such as this, we are sticking to our own competitiveness and competence, by which we are disbanding all cooperation with the rest of the world — that is what the speech was very clear about. Nor have I noticed any speeches here that would have knocked out the use of Finnish wood as was said here. Naturally, we must use our own renewable raw material and use it as well as possible, in such a way that it has the highest degree of processing and that it replaces, in particular, the products that are currently made of plastic and, of course, oil. I do not think that anyone has a different perspective on these, at least not during this whole debate, when I have followed it, I have not heard it. I also understand that we all have a strong trust in science. So we are confident that these matters will then also be resolved through the knowledge studied, and then it is good to base their own efforts on it. It is very important that wood raw material can be used in a variety of ways, for example in Eastern Finland, and that new livelihoods can be obtained, but once again I would stress that we must also have the ambition here to get as many euros as possible from the pound of wood as possible and in that way also these high-processing jobs in Eastern Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u75	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen and many others have spoken about this use of forests and the use of wood. This is the kind of thing where the best guiding principle is what scientific research tells us. Representative Hoskonen referred, for example, to making plastic out of wood. Indeed, from a climate point of view, all the products we can make from wood are carbon stocks. The longer the products, the longer the carbon stocks. For example, wood houses are very long-term carbon stocks, furniture and other smaller wood products, then shorter but still more carbon stocks from an atmospheric point of view, which is a very good thing. Instead, burning wood is another matter. It can be done smartly in such a way that it is reasonably acceptable for the climate at least now, but it can also be done less smartly, and it is the kind of things we really need to be careful about and listen to the advice of researchers. Congressman Hakkarainen asked how the ice age would have been rejected in the past. Well, scientists who talk about climate change have never claimed that all the changes in the climate that have taken place in the history of the earth are man-made. The fact that man-made effects are currently dominant in climate change does not eliminate the fact that natural factors, such as fluctuations in solar activity, continue to exist. And now that this little ice age has been mentioned, let me mention one study I have read. It suggests that when Europeans went to the American continent around 1500, about 95% of the indigenous population died there, which means that especially in South America.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u76	Mr President! I would like to say here to Mr Hassi that the use of Finland's forest resources is based on extensive research and is actually being used sustainably. I share Mr Hoskonen's concern and Mr Hakkarainen's concern that this important and noble Paris Agreement is now seeking to attack it against sustainable exploitation of Finnish forests. And that is very worrying. And I would like to remind everyone that that electricity really does not come from a socket, that fuel does not come from a gas station and that money does not come from the budget. And if there is now any better advice as to how Finnish forest resources should be used, these studies and ideas should be presented here in the Chamber. I have not heard that and I see that we are currently doing a good forestry policy. The Paris Agreement and the Government's proposal for it will also enable the sustainable exploitation of forests now and in the future. It is quite clear that this agreement is idealistic. But it can be carried through when idealism comes to its side with brutal realism, and I personally see that it is needed in this situation and not in vain faltering.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u77	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u78	Mr President! First of all, I must say that I am surprised that a minister who is presenting such a big and important issue is not here. Because at least he should be here to present us with a bill, and then we can have a joint referral. But, Mr President, first of all, this is a legislative proposal relating to competitiveness, which, of course, is somewhat better than the one that was forced to bring into Parliament by forced laws. Now, with this bill, the government is shifting the burden of employers' contributions to employees, while at the same time reducing the tax burden on employees. These reductions cannot be allocated to employees who do not pay State or municipal taxes on their income. In order to avoid a reduction in the net income of those who earn small wages, a reduction of EUR 63 million is proposed in the sickness insurance daily allowance fee. The reduction is carried out in such a way that no sickness insurance allowance is charged to persons who earn less than EUR 14000 per year. Mr President! With this proposal, employers will be supported by more than EUR 700 million. At least it remains unclear to me how this will support employment. Of course, it is to be hoped that this will happen. We have similar experiences in previous years, for which it has not been clearly demonstrated that employment will be strengthened. But when this is a competitiveness pact, I hope that the social partners and the working world will jointly commit that this will also strengthen our employment. The Board of Directors allocates compensation of less than EUR 14000 per year to employees and enterprises who earn less than EUR 14000 per year. The government has originally stated that it will allocate EUR 30 million to these people so that their net income will not be reduced. This is a positive thing, of course. It now seems that this EUR 30 million is not enough, and the cost of compensation is EUR 63 million. It is now very important that this compensation should be implemented, but it must not be financed by undermining other social security systems. The government and other representatives have repeatedly stated in this Chamber that the government is targeting EUR 30 million for the most low-income people. This has given the impression that once the government has allocated tax relief to people on good income, it at the same time takes into account the low-income people on social security and allocates EUR 30 million to them. There have been several requests from the government, including the Finance Minister, Mr Orvo, how this will be done. He has said on several occasions that this is being prepared and that he will not be able to say it more precisely at this stage. But the idea of this being directed specifically at people who depend on social security has been given. Well, this is not going to happen, but this EUR 30 or 63 million will be for low-income employees and entrepreneurs who earn less than 14,000. Not to pensioners, not to the unemployed, not to parents who earn sickness allowance or have minimum parental allowance. In that regard, it could be said that what has been said in this Chamber about the parties of government and the minister that this EUR 30 million would be for the lowest-income groups will not happen. Mr President! Of course, this proposal is not entirely related to the Competitiveness Pact, but it is important that the government implements this compensation. We have been given a message that the Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK) did not support this increase of EUR 63 million, but that it considered compensation inappropriate because it brings progress towards social insurance contributions. However, I would hope that this type of message will not then move on to the board of government, but that this compensation will be made. If there had been a government representative or a minister here, I would have asked what this final amount of compensation is and how it will be financed, and also wanted assurance from the Minister that it would not be taken from other low-income people dependent on social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u79	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Defence, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u80	Mr President! The Government's proposal provides for the Defence Forces' security tasks, i.e. the Defence Forces' personal protection tasks and the protection of the integrity of the transport of special assets of the Defence Forces in areas other than those under the control of the Defence Forces. The need for this presentation is set by Finland’s changed security environment and intensified international defence cooperation. The Defence Forces have the necessary powers to protect their activities in their own areas in the hands of the Defence Forces. At the moment, the problem is that when the Defence Forces, for example, transfer material between offices or, in the event of increased preparedness, dispersal material, then the Defence Forces must rely either on police assistance or, in the extreme case, on security services for civilian companies. Currently The Defence Forces will not be able to perform security tasks outside the Defence Forces' territories without a specific request for assistance from the police. This needs a change. According to the Government's proposal, the regulation of the powers of the Defence Forces in relation to the security function would be clarified and extended outside the areas under the control of the Defence Forces. In addition, the Ministry of Defence would be empowered to issue a regulation on special protected targets for the Defence Forces. Under the current legislation, the Defence Forces are responsible for the security arrangements for visits by representatives of international organisations and the highest military leadership of other states, but only in the area held by the Defence Forces. Under the current law, the authorities of the Defence Forces have the powers required for the security mission only in areas under permanent control of the Defence Forces. Outside the areas of the Defence Forces, the competent authority for security tasks is mainly the police and, in certain situations, the Border Guard. The personal protective function of the Defence Forces shall mean the protection of the security of personnel of the Defence Forces, of persons in special need of protection under the military leadership of another State, or of persons in need of special protection from international organisations. In the national language, the personal protective function includes the task of bodyguarding and ensuring the safety of the protected person in the accommodation 24 hours a day. The protection of the integrity of the transport of special assets of the Defence Forces means the protection of transfers of material requiring a higher level of protection between the Defence Forces. The material to be transported is the material of the Defence Forces, which is defined as special treatment due to defence, operational usability, financial value, difficult availability, suitability for criminal use, image, reputation or danger. The task of protecting transport also includes courier duties, which refer to the transport of certain documents. According to the Government's proposal, the Defence Forces' security tasks would be performed by a specially trained Defence Forces official called a security officer. In the case of a personal protective task, the security officer would have the authority to act as an emergency guard. In order to protect the transport of the specific assets of the Defence Forces, the right to isolate, close or clear a place or territory of general use, or to prohibit or restrict movement there if it is necessary to protect the integrity of the special property, and the right to remove a person if, on the basis of his threats or other behaviour, he or she is likely to commit a crime against the special property of the Defence Forces, and, thirdly, the right to arrest a person if removal is likely to be an inadequate measure and the offence against the special property of the Defence Forces cannot be prevented, disrupted or otherwise eliminated. The police should immediately be informed of the arrest. In the field of material transport protection, the security officer would have adequate force equipment and protective equipment at his disposal for the task in question. The task of protecting the Defence Forces would be preceded by cooperation with the police. In certain cases, the Defence Forces have been provided with exceptional powers to carry out internal administrative checks on subjects identified as confidential from the point of view of national defence. In future, objects classified from the point of view of national defence would be referred to as "targets specially protected from the point of view of national defence", which would better describe the activities to be carried out to protect them. Targets and practices applicable to them would be regulated by a Ministry of Defence regulation, which would clarify the division of competences between the authorities carrying out inspections under general competence and the Defence Forces authorities. This clarifies the division of competences between the Defence Forces and other authorities. Mr President! All in all, this government proposal will improve the Defence Forces' performance of its statutory tasks. A defence solution based on a large reserve requires that, under normal circumstances, forces can be established in a decentralised manner. It would be an abuse of the authority's resources if, in such a situation, police assistance were required to protect the Defence Forces' material.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u81	Mr President! The proceedings include a proposal from the Government to the Parliament to amend the law on the Defence Forces and some related laws. A few things, because I am not even familiar with this performance yet: The aim of the proposal is to improve the ability of the Defence Forces outside the Defence Forces to protect the safety of persons in special need of protection from the military leadership of the Defence Forces' foreign military staff, or those in need of special protection from an international organisation, and to adequately protect the transport of special assets of the Defence Forces so as not to impose unnecessary burdens on other authorities with security tasks. From the point of view of defence, a reference is added to the specific protected targets, which are mainly located in the Defence Forces. Security tasks may be carried out by means of a new proposal by an official with special training in the Defence Forces, called a security officer, who would protect the security of the above-mentioned persons. Further training should be provided to approximately 50 people as proposed. Training sessions should be organised for these staff as a result of a change of law. The training will entail a lump sum of around EUR 100000, mainly for the mission expenses of the participants in the training. In addition, training should be complemented by additional training at the workplace, which does not entail significant additional costs. Of course, maintaining public security and order in a public place is primarily a matter for the police. The proposal therefore makes it clear that the task of security is not a measure of public security. The police officer or field manager would always be informed in advance of the start of security missions. Overall, the government proposal takes very good account of cooperation with the police. For example, security tasks of a person in a public place are transferred from the Defence Forces to the police as soon as possible after the start of these duties. The Government's proposal thus allows the protection of persons and transport also by the Defence Forces' security forces, but takes into account as far as possible the tasks assigned to the police as a guardian of public order and security. In the current situation, it has been seen that the Defence Forces and the police may have a different view of the security threat to a person due to different circumstances. In addition, in certain situations of increased preparedness, the request for assistance would not necessarily have time or the police would not have the resources to provide assistance. As far as the proposal on the protection of the integrity of the movement of the Defence Forces is concerned, the security officer is now given the right to catch a person who could endanger the transport. The security officer has the right to remove, for example, a person who is threatening to commit a crime against property. The person may also be apprehended and reported and must be handed over to the police without delay. This is where the immunity of a fundamental right person comes from. However, there are good grounds for limiting this fundamental right. The special property of the Defence Forces is generally dangerous and can endanger the safety of society and cause widespread damage. Thus, the powers lacking in the integrity of a person have the conditions necessary for the so-called heavy social need and accepted by the system of fundamental rights. Mr President! In the context of this legislative package, more details will be made of a number of laws: the law on the safety of handling dangerous chemicals and explosives, the Health Protection Act, the Chemicals Act and then the Act on accommodation and nutrition. — — — — This is very brief.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u82	Mr President! Due to the increase in international cooperation and the acquisition of military equipment, military personnel and other experts from different countries visit Finland almost daily. Ensuring the safety of these people, and also protecting often strictly confidential material from industrial and other espionage, has become a daily routine in the Defence Forces region. The Defence Forces already have expertise, personnel and equipment related to personal and material protection. The police have the same equipment and know-how, but unfortunately there is a crying shortage of human resources — we may all agree on that. That is why it is important, and I think it is also important, to make the rational use of the resources of the state administration possible for the defence administration to use its own resources more effectively and more widely. The more the defence administration uses its own resources, the less the police need to provide official assistance to the defence administration. This will partly reduce the duplication of activities and release police resources to the police’s main tasks: maintaining public order and security and pre-trial investigation of the violations of law that have already taken place. Mr President! With these short sentences and short reflections, I support the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u83	Mr President! Thank you for your support for the government's proposal. Like a representative. Mr Mäkipää quite rightly said that I believe that cooperation with the police is well taken into account in this proposal. The police are responsible for public order and security, and just as Mr Hongisto said, the police have limited resources and targeted them. The use of the Defence Forces cannot be considered appropriate for the main task of the police. In particular, however, there is a large number of tasks relating to the protection of the movements of the Defence Forces, and it is certainly not appropriate to use the police resources for these. The proposal has also ensured close cooperation with other authorities if the Defence Forces security forces need to make use of the proposed powers. The police may continue to carry out security missions in the general area, but in a situation where the police do not believe they can carry out the task, the Defence Forces security could carry out the task.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u84	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u85	Mr President! The wars of 1939-45 were the fate of our country's independence. It is therefore important that our country, which will soon be 100 years old, remembers those who have been disabled in these wars. The Government’s decision to reduce the disability scale of the war-qualified from 15 to 10 per cent brings around 600 war-qualified members to the community’s open services. I'm sure this is what everyone in this room feels right. Personally, I would be prepared to reduce the level of disadvantage to zero, because all those who paid for their health to defend their country deserve the best possible support. The number of war-affiliators and veterans is falling rapidly. Their average age is over 90 years. There are only about 22,000 veterans left in our wars, 3170 of them. Now we really have the last moments to pay credit to those who paid a high price in defence of Finland. I am therefore pleased that the government has decided not only to reduce the handicap of the war-qualified, but also to increase rehabilitation funds for veterans. In honor of the anniversary of independence, the Government aims to extend the number of recipients of free home services for veterans. The goal is to get all veterans living at home and who need open services to access free-of-charge services. Currently, EUR 10 million will be spent on home open services for front veterans, an additional EUR 20 million will be provided for open services in 2017, a total of EUR 15 million in 2018 and EUR 5 million in 2019, or a total of EUR 40 million. The increase is considerable. In addition, efforts will be made to ensure that all veterans in need of home services receive support. The Government calls on municipalities to continue to actively communicate with veterans and to ensure that people living at home receive adequate and appropriate support. They will then be able to live in their home for as long as possible in a safe and functional capacity. There are still differences in this activity between municipalities. So there are a few more things: The cut of 0.85% on the breast premium is regrettable. The breast allowance is tied to the national pension index, which happens to be a minus mark next year. I expect the government to remove the front surgery. And since Finland will celebrate its 100th anniversary next year, I would also like to say the following: When politicians write or say things that are gross or offensive, it is appropriate to point out or intervene. When a member of the Independent Finland 100th anniversary committee publicly pronounces on the statue of Marshal Mannerheim that it should be transferred and that he is a war criminal, one should consider whether a person is worthy of membership of the party committee. This is a very important issue. In recent times I have myself raised words on many occasions, such as tenderness and shushing, but now I could bring up a word such as slander, i.e. the third H, and it does come up in this context as to whether there has been slander. But next year we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of Finland’s independence. It is a very important and valuable matter for all citizens, and we must respect it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u86	Mr President! Indeed, we posterity should humbly thank the people who have stood up for our country with their lives, and small-scale gratitude is also for this change in law in order to reduce the threshold of 10% for the cost-free social and health care services of the war-qualified. However, as Mrs Elomaa said earlier, I believe that this limit could already be completely removed and offered to all veterans. Mr President! Fortunately, times have changed radically since the 1960s, when, unfortunately, veterans of our wars were even ridiculed and claimed that they themselves wanted to go to war, which of course was not true. In the 1960s, the social climate was completely different from what it is today, and fortunately we have gone much better. War veterans have, according to their report, felt that they had experienced widespread appreciation only since the 1990s, in practice since the break-up of the Soviet Union in 91 C.E. In a climate of Finnishism, at least the appreciation of them was hardly expressed out loud, since there was apparently also fear of the reactions of the eastern neighbour in this matter. On the other hand, the Finnish soldier had also been appreciated by the Communist leaders of the Soviet Union, as recorded in the history book today. It is an indication of the importance of veterans in the preservation of our country's independence. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank the committee for its prompt examination of the matter and for its unanimous report, which is in favour of adopting a good draft law, which will also take place after this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u87	Mr President! That's it. That's it. That's it. That's Once this matter has been discussed here in Parliament, even in this Chamber, everyone has responded positively. It is quite right that this disability rate under the Military Injury Act falls from 15 to 10, and, as Mrs Elomaa says, it would have had to be at zero now, knowing that there are so few people who will receive this in the coming years. But it would be better if this smaller decrease reached this percentage. It must then be noted that Sweden also has a permanent residence for these people who have fought between 39 and 45 years. There, too, there are about twenty of them, and then there will be this change, a proposal for improvement. But then I have received a message from a few when this issue has been so publicly discussed that many so-called veterans are bitter that when we talk about veterans and never mention veterans. After all, they were the people who fought there in the front line, and it was of these that a great crowd lost their lives. That, of course, we should remember these. And then people mention that they do not necessarily get the things promised them. But I'm sure they're so detailed that you always have to think about what's wrong when these front veterans don't even get those grants. But thanks for this now that this sort of correction has come to these war veterans' contributions, and hopefully next year we will get to the zero percent that everyone will get.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-18-ps-102.u88	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 17/2016 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 14 October 2016. Now the debate continues.
