ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 3/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 5 April 2016. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u2	Madam President! We shall make a motion for a transitional provision, i.e. an amendment to paragraph 1, in accordance with objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u3	Mr President! I support Mr Paatero's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u4	Sirpa Paatero, supported by Joona Räsänen, has proposed that the entry into force provision be adopted in accordance with protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u5	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 6/2016 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 5 April 2016. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u6	Madam President! I propose that the legislative proposals be adopted otherwise, in accordance with the committee's report, with the exception of Article 230 of the first draft law. in the form of an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u7	Mr President! I support Mr Taimela's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u8	With the support of Satu Hass, Katja Taimela has proposed that the article be adopted as an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u9	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The answer is now given to Mr Anna-Maja Henriksson's and others' intermediate question on the cuts in higher education and student support. After the Government's answer, there will be a debate on the interim issue. The first speaker for the debate is Mrs Anna-Maja Henriksson. There will then be a rapid part of the debate, allowing group speeches to take up to 5 minutes and other pre-reserved speeches to last up to 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that even after a rapid debate, the speeches take a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u10	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council! I would like to thank the opposition for putting this interim issue forward. Finland will be 100 years old next year. Our national poet wrote our Earth song about a poor country. At the beginning of the 21st century, when the economy and exports were booming, the idea of poor Finland was foreign. After those good years, in eight years, we have doubled our debt burden. In economic growth with Greece in Europe, we have been left to the fore. Humility has returned to the central element of our society, although it cannot be compared to poverty a hundred years ago. However, Finland is still one of the best countries in the world to live on many indicators. Our most important capital accumulated over almost a hundred years is between our ears. High knowledge keeps our little nation on the surface in the world. Every Finn today knows that the Finnish economy is not on a sound footing. Now it has also been discovered outside our country. We have received a final warning from the ratings and from the European Commission that the necessary decisions and reforms can no longer be withdrawn or postponed, even if it seems to be easier to go and brings political popularity. The Government has decided to reverse Finland's course, even if it would provoke opposition and even if it would require very difficult decisions, which are also being discussed today. Savings of EUR 4 billion are not made out of spite, carelessness or bullying. It is because there is less money now because the economy is not growing and because we have too much debt. This is the only reason why we have saved almost everywhere, including education. The message of the Governor of the Bank of Finland, Erkki Liikanen, in the spending limits debate of the government yesterday was that the more deleveraging and economic adjustment are postponed, the more young generations suffer. Those now painful decisions that balance the Finnish economy and reform this country are therefore in the interests of young people in particular. Yesterday, in its spending limits debate, the government has supplemented the savings of the Government Programme to the extent that the EUR 4 billion target is lagging behind, i.e. EUR 370 million. This deficit in the savings target was due to two factors: index savings have not been realised due to low inflation and, secondly, the savings made by the municipalities of the Government Programme are not fully realised. These new savings, which have been made yesterday, are not aimed at education and research. Training and research were protected from further cuts, which does not remove old ones, but gives us peace of work to focus on reforming our education system. Mr President! When we look at our education system, we've lost years. During the previous government, learning results went down in Pisa measurements. Nevertheless, reforms aimed at strengthening the quality of education, learning outcomes and the general education of the future were omitted or left incomplete. The reform of upper secondary school was half-way, the structural development of higher education was undirected, there was not much interest in science policy. The Education Ministers of the previous government prepared the cuts in education more than this government did. All the parties who signed the interim question were present as if they did not remember the times. The savings made by the government have moved around a wide range of figures, partly incorrect. All cuts in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture will reduce the level of appropriations in the state budget by around 6 per cent by 2019. Even after surgery, we spend around EUR 16 billion per year on education and research in Finland. As our economy grew, we could develop our education system by increasing spending. Now that the economy is not growing in practice and our expenditure exceeds our revenue, we need to pay more attention to what is being done and what is being achieved with the EUR 16 billion. So, at the same time, Finland must be able to achieve both a balanced economy and an ambitious reform of our education system. Our vision in the Government Programme is that Finland is a country in which you want to learn new things all the time. We want Finland to be the leading country in education, skills and modern learning. Is there a conflict between what the government says and what it does? No, they're not. The quality of education is not measured alone by how much money we spend. Education and research are always investments in the future. Although we do not have as much money as before, using that money more wisely and doing things in a new way will continue to increase our knowledge. A country that has survived a very hard time in its nearly 100 - year history will survive this too. Mr President! "If a school were to be invented, would anyone say that the best thing to learn is to use a teacher with a group By the way, he is a great friend of Finnish education. Even the best education system in the world is facing reforms also because the world has changed and is still changing. How do we teach children and young people to master technology that has not yet been invented, or how do we train them to do jobs that do not yet exist? Knowledge needs have changed, but fortunately we know more about learning than ever. The Government will reform the education system with all its steps from early childhood education to higher education. Cross-cutting themes in the reform of education include strengthening pedagogics, quality teacher training, and developing learning environments and digitalization. In early childhood education, we launch a development programme, and for the first time, the Finnish National Board of Education prepares the basics of early childhood education, which, if successful, can be a very important quality factor in the development of early childhood education. The number of university-educated kindergarten teachers will be increased. Finnish comprehensive school is an international success story and a model for many countries that are building their education system. The Government spends EUR 121 million to renew the operating culture of comprehensive school. The aim is to improve learning outcomes, increase individual learning and make learning inspiring throughout life. We are not focusing on new equipment and tools, but above all on content and learning. New curricula will be introduced in comprehensive schools next autumn. They highlight phenomena-based learning, comprehensive learning and the application of knowledge, creativity and learning skills. Children and young people are actively taught to think, not just passively adopt. In turn, with key cultural projects, we increase the opportunities for children and young people to participate in art and culture, especially as a hobby activity on school premises. Bringing an hour to each schoolboy’s day by expanding exercise The mobile school programme will be national. Even the development of high school must not be left in place. The new upper secondary school programme will create a network for the development of pioneers in which upper secondary schools can apply to try out new learning solutions. Upper secondary schools are encouraged to cooperate more closely with higher education institutions. A more selective class sharing of upper secondary school will be tested on the basis of the class sharing model presented by experts during the last government term. The Government has launched a reform of vocational education and training, and this restructuring will also respond to the savings of EUR 190 million, which are included in the Government Programme. We will reform the structures, operating methods and qualifications of vocational education and training as a whole. Educational institutions will have more opportunities and agility to respond flexibly to the training needs of working life. We increase workplace learning and individual study paths. The threshold for the organisation of apprenticeship training will be lowered and we will introduce a new training contract as a flexible and attractive way of completing a degree or parts of it by learning. At the heart of Finnish education are our highly educated, skilled, respected and motivated teachers, who are the best in the world. I have set up a teacher training forum to reform teachers' initial and continuing training, and the government has set aside EUR 50 million to strengthen teachers' skills during the Government term. Controlling new technologies is important, but so are traditional learning materials, or books, and so are libraries. Yesterday, as part of the budgetary plan, the government decided to increase the lending compensation paid to authors. The creative work of writers is a very important part of our culture and culture and provides an important basis for learning. Mr President! The Government attaches great importance to equal opportunities for training. We want Finland to be a country where every child and young person, regardless of their background, gets a good starting point and the best opportunity to train and influence their own lives. The most important aspects of ensuring educational equality are the free and accessible access to education. Wealth, home or family background must never become an obstacle to further effort and study. Every person who completes his primary school will be guaranteed a place of secondary education. Every form of education remains the path to further studies. The differences in learning outcomes between schools in Finland are small in international comparisons, but there are indications that differences are increasing. In order to prevent school segregation, the Government will support the recruitment of teachers and school assistants to schools in challenging areas by EUR 20 million. Mr President! Due to the weakness of our country's economic situation, savings will also have to be made from student aid. This is an indication of how badly our economy is doing. The Board of Directors maintains the savings on student support during the spending limits period. We can no longer postpone difficult decisions, as previous governments have done. However, the Government has moderated the proposals made by liquidator Roope Uusitalo to tighten the terms of the student grant so that the long-term impact of the cuts is around EUR 122 million instead of EUR 150 million. The amount of student grant in higher education is harmonised with upper secondary education to EUR 250 per month. This is a clear cut to student money, and it must be acknowledged. At the same time, however, the central government guarantee for student loans will be increased to EUR 650 per month, when the total amount of student aid will increase by EUR 160. The maximum amount of support for students studying in Finland is EUR 1100 per month. The reduction in parents' incomes will be abolished for students aged 18 and 19 in secondary education. We are also looking for ways to improve the credit for student loans and to make it more encouraging. The income limits of students are tied to the index of earnings. The rate of recovery will be halved and the Government will prepare a proposal to transfer students to the general housing allowance. Mr President! I would like to say specifically that the strength of Finnish education is its equality. Every child has the opportunity to study regardless of the family’s wealth. This government is not prepared to compromise even a drop of equal opportunities in education. In the model of the reform of student support, the greatest attention has been paid to the increase in the share of student loans, which is why I asked Roope Uusitalo, a professor of economics in education, who worked as a liquidator, to examine particularly carefully how increasing the share of the loan would affect equal study opportunities. The study found no evidence that changing the student support model would threaten equality in education. In international comparisons, the student support system based on student loans has not undermined equality. In Norway and Sweden, for example, student loans are the most important part of student support. Furthermore, there was no evidence that the use of student loans would be reduced by a lower level of education for parents or by a lower income for the family. Professor Uusitalo also found no such signs of Finnish development. Yesterday, in the spending limits debate, the Government decided to invest a total of approximately EUR 105 million in strengthening the digital learning environments of higher education in 2017-2018, improving the conditions for year-round studies and promoting the science of young researchers. I will see to it that this additional effort improves the progress of students' studies, increases our skills level and promotes access to the career of our most talented young researchers. Mr President! Our higher education institutions are central to Finnish competence and education. It is the responsibility of universities to "raise students to serve the country and mankind" that is enshrined in the law. It's a noble and valuable mission. Another element in our higher education system is universities of applied sciences, which are responsible for the training of professional experts. Education, education and science are values in themselves. The main impact of higher education in our society is that it produces educated citizens who perform different tasks and thus make their skills available to society in different forms. During this term of government, the level of funding for higher education and science within the framework of the Ministry of Education and Culture will fall from EUR 3.2 billion to EUR 3.1 billion. It's about a 3% reduction. I understand the concern of our higher education and scientific community with reduced funding. However, the cut in appropriations is not a sign of a reduction in value. The only reason for these savings is because the money is not enough. When resources are scarcer, we need to do things better. This also applies to higher education institutions. In other words, we need to reform our policies, focus on the essentials. The Government requires higher education institutions to build up their skills and examine overlapping educational responsibilities. Universities must profile, intensify cooperation and clarify the division of labour. In many places, progress towards uniting forces is already moving forward. In Tampere, two universities are becoming one and the university of applied sciences is becoming one group. In Lappeenranta, plans are well under way. I just appointed a spokesperson for Lapland. Aalto University focuses its activities on one campus. Another form of university effectiveness is the creation of new ideas, products and innovations. It is important to remember that one of the innovations to be commercialised is often the result of decades of working on basic research. In particular, in relation to science policy, I would like to mention the support for young researchers, which, in addition to the additional effort decided yesterday, has already been allocated EUR 30 million in key project funding through the Academy of Finland. The first application period for young researchers is currently under way. Mr President! The money for education has not been cut because the government would not appreciate the invaluable work done at all levels in all Finnish educational institutions. We've had to save our education because there's less money. Surgery in our education system could be a threat if the aim were to preserve the old one. Instead, if we dare to do things differently — in a better and more effective way — we can be stronger in the coming years than before. If we were to use a boring cheese grinder in the education sector, we might well be doing damage to Finnish expertise. But that is not what we will do. All government training activities have been designed in such a way that they always go through structures and reforms, with content and pedagogy ahead, with all the strength they have to hold to the heart of education and knowledge. This government has also chosen the path of reform in its education policy. This will enable us to secure the most important quality of education and the high level of competence of Finns in the future. Although we are in a difficult social and economic situation, even though our resources are scarcer and the opposition is probably calling for decisions to slip away today, this government and I, as Minister of Education, are doing our best every day to ensure that the Finnish education system develops and renews.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u11	Mr President, ärade talman! "Civil protection",pronouncedJ.V. Snellman back in the day. There is a lot of wisdom in this sentence that is easy to agree with. That is why it is often quoted in the formal speeches on education. Regrettably, the speeches of the government parties are completely separate from the reality in which: The Sipilä government is working now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u16	Mr President! The city centre maintains equality in education. Everyone must have the opportunity to train as far as hard work and talent is sufficient.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u21	Mr President! As a result of the poor state economy, the government is forced to make adjustments that affect almost all groups of citizens. Many of the surgeries are difficult and repugnant, targeting people who are otherwise financially tight. In particular, there has been a great deal of public debate on cuts in education. These are considered unreasonable because, under the leadership of the SDP and with the support of the Greens, the Left Alliance and the RKP, approximately 10% of the resources were cut from the Ministry of Education and Culture's administration during the last term of government. No significant additional cuts were expected at the start of the new government. Education cuts are not at their best. Political rhetorical propaganda, on the other hand, is the opposition's claim that the government is anti-educational and anti-civilised. In the spending limits period, education expenditure will be reduced by around 5%, as in other sectors. Even after the surgeries, Finland's investment in education is a good OECD average. Our education system is fine and is admired worldwide. The key elements are equality and free of charge. This year, the state invests nearly EUR 6 billion in education. This is not a small investment. In addition to free education, the state supports the daily lives of individual students by nearly one billion euros per year. Even internationally, our system is generous. Despite these astronomical sums, students live at the limit of their livelihood. As a result, more and more students have to work alongside their studies. There is nothing wrong with getting work experience in itself, quite the contrary, but the delay in graduation due to work does not correspond to the objectives set to shorten study hours. The Government has therefore wisely stated that the total amount of student allowance will rise to EUR 1100 and that students in the second and higher education will be transferred to the general housing allowance. Madam President! I am one of the generation of students whose funding for studies was granted on the basis of a loan. But the world has changed. I already know that about my family circle. The raising of a student loan is avoided, although it has increased somewhat in recent years. It is important that students continue to have a reasonable income regardless of their parents’ income. The student support system created in the 1970s for university students has been changed frequently by various governments. I believe that consideration should be given to the need to reform the system of financial aid in the context of extensive parliamentary preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u24	Madam President! The strength and fineness of Finnish society is summed up in free quality education. Everyone can train himself to become a doctor, regardless of their background. Over the past 100 years, both educational levels and educational equality have increased dramatically. The free provision of education is an important investment for our society in terms of education, economic well-being and equality. The parliamentary group of the Coalition Party understands the concern behind the intermediate issue. It is quite true that during this and the previous parliamentary term, there has been significant savings in education and training. That is not disputed, and we are not happy to make these savings. However, the government does not have much room for manoeuvre. The central principle of responsible and sustainable economic management is that we do not continue to live beyond our resources. Savings are being made so that we can secure the financing of the welfare society in the future. Every party in this Chamber has, in turn, also been making savings in education, not as a choice of values, but as a result of a difficult economic situation. Minister Grahn-Laasonen has been directly responsible for the implementation of the Government's joint decisions. In contrast to the previous government's cuts in education, we are seeking structural reforms. Only by doing things better and in a new way will we continue to ensure equality of opportunity and the high quality of Finnish education. Mr President! Without prejudice to the scale of the savings to be made in relation to the overall contribution of education and research, any scale of cuts in education and training must be borne in mind. In 2019, around EUR 16 billion of public funding will be spent on education. The savings presented during the Government term amount to a maximum of EUR 982 million. For example, funding for higher education and science will fall from 3.2 billion to 3.1 billion euros. At the meeting, we value enormously and sincerely the quality of the work done by our country's early-school educators, teachers, professors and other educational and research staff. The savings made by the government are not a motion of censure against them, but merely an undesirable measure dictated by strict government finances. Mr President! In the reform of student support, it is essential to remember that it does not undermine educational equality in the light of studies. Professor Roope Uusitalo, as a rapporteur, comprehensively evaluates the options and impacts of the implementation of student support savings, based on research data, especially from the perspective of equality in education. Uusitalo did not find the distribution of student loans, Scientifically significant evidence of comparisons between the Nordic countries or the reform of the 90s student support system would support the opposition's claim that educational equality was deteriorating. On the other hand, Uusitalo found that in Sweden, for example, education is less inherited than in Finland, although Swedish student support is clearly more loan-oriented than the Finnish model.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u27	Mr President! Some time ago I met college students in Turku, and they told me that their belief in the future was being tested because of the massive educational savings of the government. There is fear and outright despair in the air. There will be no more faith in the future. The students rightly feel betrayed. The student's already limited income is also at risk as a result of the student's student support cut. The students are appalled. The student grant is being cut by EUR 86, more than a quarter. This amount corresponds to the student’s entire month’s student lunches and a little more. Professor Jaakko Hämeen-Anttila, who, by the way, has already been brain draining abroad, wondered: "Why does money encourage a business manager but lazy a student?" The SDP does not accept that those with the lowest income should be taken the most. Has the government forgotten that students are already the lowest group in the world of social security, often living below the poverty line? One good thing is to give up the impact of parents' income on the study grant for students aged 18 to 19 who live independently. I hope that the reform of the government's student support is not about the fact that in the future the student will come from a so-called good family more often. Young people who are unable to obtain financial support from their parents for their studies now have to think very carefully about what they can afford to study. Is the government looking for a return to a class society where the wealth and background of the family determine the opportunities for children and young people? Mr President! Despite the speeches, there seems to be a shift in education policy from the welfare state's universalism to the private debt economy. Free higher education is no longer seen as a right offered by the welfare state, but rather as a right comparable to any individual investment. Such an idea does not serve as a starting point for education policy in the Nordic welfare state.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u36	Mr President! The story of this country is the story of education and equality. When the recession in the '90s hit Finland, I started school. In the eyes of the child, the depression was something really scary, it broke the father of a schoolmate, it broke up homes, it left a wound in almost every Finnish family. But the worst thing it did was the hopelessness it created in this country. Now my own little boy is about to start school, and that same gray wave has swept over Finland again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u45	Madam President! Before the elections, Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister of Finance Stubb posed in the social media and made a promise of education that education or student support would not be cut. I myself, as party chairman, was involved in discussions where every parliamentary party said: there was already too much cutting last season, no more cutting. Now the government is cutting over old, doomed cuts even more. If Prime Minister Sipilä and Finance Minister Stubb had not left this debate, I would tell them that in the government negotiations their educational promise became an educational fraud. They do not want to hear this, they dare not hear it, they leave the Chamber in the middle of the debate. That's what we're talking about. In a short time, the Sipilä government has managed to do a devastating job, especially in higher education institutions: education, research and administration. There's a brain drain going on where talented scientists move abroad. In addition to this, students are naturally also affected by higher education cuts. The quality of teaching suffers. There is less contact teaching. The guidance of the studies is weaker. The government shoots a maiden of Finland in the knee. The cuts to research and education deprive Finland of the opportunity to grow in the future. Madam President! In addition to reducing study opportunities, the Board of Directors is also taking away basic income from students. About a quarter of the previously insufficient student funding will be cut out. So it's not a cheese grinder, it's a sharp and heavy axe. In addition, the student aid has already been removed from the index. Students are currently the lowest-income population group. Many students are forced to vibrate in bread lines when the money is not enough for food. Now, Minister Grahn-Laasonen, you obviously want to extend the bread lines further.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u48	Värderade Talman! Man kan undra vad regeringen tror att ska få Finland på fötter igen. Vikten av en god utbildning på alla stadier är den bästa garante för utveckling och västånd. Nu riskerar regeringen äventyra hela denna utveckling — som fått Finland att bli det landet är i dag.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u49	Madam President! Finland is not doing well. Despite last year's positive developments, the current account, describing the relationship between exports and imports, turned to the cold again in the early part of the year. New growth and the recovery of export markets will require new innovations that will not emerge without research resources. The previous major recession was overcome through research, development and innovation efforts. Unfortunately, now the government is doing the opposite. It has launched a programme of hundreds of millions of euros for training and research. Internationally important research projects and researchers have already moved away from Finland — countries where research is still valued and supported. Business operators have been surprisingly silent, although ultimately cuts in education and research are always cuts in the business world and in the skills of the employees needed by companies. For Finnish young people, these cuts mean growing lack of visibility and frustration as self-employment and effort become increasingly difficult. With these provisions, the prospects of hope and the future will drown. As early as last autumn, the Christian Democrats have criticised the drastic savings in education and research and development, and we have proposed cancelling them in our own alternative budget. Instead of short-sighted cuts, the Christian Democrats are calling for genuine - genuine - structural reforms. In education, we propose reducing study time by improving the learning pathways and improving the level of education, among other things. We would also like to stress that religious conviction in our modern society must no longer be an obstacle to access to a place of study, to completion of a profession or to research projects. Reforms need to be made. However, the cuts we call government reforms are not the reforms we are calling for. Financial opportunities for studying must also be guaranteed. We simply cannot accept drastic cutbacks to student support. Madam President! Today we have published our own supportive student support model. It even makes it possible to study with a student allowance and a housing allowance, because the student grant is paid according to the credits. Our model rewards the hardworking, encourages contacts with working life, encourages entrepreneurship and takes into account family members. We are not in favour of any student money cuts. However, if they are made, in spite of opposition, we propose that loan weighting should only be increased at the end of the studies by reducing the number of months of study grants. This does not undermine the study opportunities of young people in a disadvantaged social situation, but savings will be achieved. In our option, the student can decide whether to study at an accelerated pace, work in addition to studying, or take out a student loan. At the end of the studies, it is good to encourage students to create contacts with working life and work alongside studies, because it promotes employment after graduation. We present a number of facilitations for students' work opportunities. For example, income thresholds would not apply at all to business income, which would encourage planning and setting up companies. One way to alleviate poverty among family students is by paying housing allowance for dependent children, and the income limits would not apply to them. This would also contribute to the earlier establishment of a family. Encouraging student support requires that at the same time the study paths of educational institutions are improved and prompt study is made possible. So there are alternatives. We must go ahead with structural reforms. Incentive student support rather than drastic government cuts strengthens faith in your own opportunities, increases confidence in the future and shows that studying pays off. Mr President! The Christian Democrats support the motion of censure tabled by Mr Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u50	Prime Minister Sipilä, five minutes from the podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u51	Madam President! Many have asked me whether I am concerned about these cuts in education and student support. Yes, of course I am. As Mr Grahn-Laasonen said, the savings in student support and education are painful and we decision-makers in the government are not happy to make them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u55	Minister Grahn-Laasonen, 3 minutes from this podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u56	Mr President! The opposition's speeches highlighted the recession years of the '90s, which I personally remember well because of unemployment in the family and the years of school in my own years of recession. What the opposition's statements drew attention to was the decisions relating to education of the time, and I would like to say a few words about them. Between 92 and 95, which we remember in very difficult years, the level of funding for education and culture fell by around 11%. In other words, large savings were made during the very difficult years of the Finnish economy, especially in the basic funding of education. But what was essential and important in those years was that at the same time a strong advantage was taken in the development of education. In primary schools in particular, regulation was dismantled, teachers' pedagogical freedom was increased, the focus was on pedagogy and content, the way our children and young people are taught. And then, as a result of the wise, far-reaching decisions taken during these years of recession, even in the midst of savings, decisions were made that made the Finnish comprehensive school the best comprehensive school in the world today. It is an elementary school that is admired around the world and is seen as an example in developing education systems in many of the developing countries that are currently actively developing their education systems. I have also noticed this, for example, when I have traveled around the world at various meetings in the field of education, and last week in Brazil to promote exports of Finnish education. I think we can make the same story happen. Even if we have to make painful savings, we will take advantage of the development of education and make them bold, very similar solutions: deregulation, greater teachers' pedagogical freedom, strengthening teachers' skills through teacher training, investing in teachers, as is now being done with EUR 50 million over the coming years of this term of government, a total of EUR 121 million will be invested in the development of a basic school operating culture. Included in this work are the best, respected, highly trained teachers in the world of Finland. In short, as a representative of my generation, I have always considered it important to assume responsibility for public finances. This government is not prepared to impose a double debt burden on those generations who are innocent of this debt. That is why we now have to make painful economic solutions but at the same time reform this country through various structural reforms, both in the education system and in our society more widely.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u59	Then let's go to the debat. I would ask those representatives who wish to take part in it to register. The speeches are therefore one minute long.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u60	Mr President! Important speeches have been heard here. However, I would like to remind you of this proportionality to the extent that every administrative sector is forced to make these savings and, at the moment, if there is a cut of about 6% here on the educational side, this can, of course, be compared to the cuts made during the last government term. For example, in the higher education sector, when there is a lot of talk about universities, on that side of this level in 2015, these education appropriations per student have been over 13,000, and now they are down to about 12,500 per student. So it's down about seven percent. During the last term of the Board of Directors, about 8500 students were cut to just over 6,000 euros per student. We're down 27%. Now we're only cutting one percent of the professional heights.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u61	Madam President! There is no mention of vocational training in this record-long intermediate text.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u66	Mr President! It is true that there is also a desire from the educational field for a far-reaching vision of education. I believe that this message has also been heard by the government. Prime Minister Sipilä said very well that unemployment is the main concern of students. In addition, the translation of employment developments is crucial for Finland's future and the government's main objective. Increased unemployment is certainly the main reason why students are currently avoiding borrowing, even though we have an excellent credit system. That is why this is the main task of the government, to reverse the employment development in Finland, so that students can also take a better view of their future. However, I would like to ask the opposition: do you believe that all the challenges facing our education system could only be addressed with additional funding without reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u67	Mr President! The Minister of Education spoke beautifully about the reform of the education system, and it is easy to agree with those words. However, the Minister's words and actions are quite contradictory. Indeed, the Moomin patch of EUR 100 million or the key project money for yesterday's spending limits will not save the fact that you will cut a total of EUR 3 billion. Even an elementary school student understands that if one hand takes thirty and the other hand gives back the euro, then less remains, and less is quite difficult to achieve more. It is very difficult to develop and renew education and research without teachers, researchers and professors. For example, how will our leading university in Helsinki be renewed when almost 1,000 teachers and staff are laid off? In many cases, even research money is not received from the university when the head of the research has had to be dismissed. Or how to develop new learning when there are more children in the teaching group? Why did you not cancel even some of the educational savings, as you did wisely, for example: And for the ministers, we are very happy to participate in the opposition in the vision of the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u68	Mr President! It is very special to listen here to this glamour that the government did not cut out more of education on the huge cuts that have already been made. Of course, it is all very well that the long-term work of the opposition and the educational field produces this result, but it is very good to note that, although this is about these patches, the government did not cancel any previous decisions on the training cut. They are all still in force, and all that destruction is still happening in our field of education, in our day-care centres, in our schools, in our universities. However, we may also be concerned about this 100 million on top of everything. Where's this money coming from? Are these new money, or are you going to cut this money somewhere else?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u69	Madam President! Mr Kivelä raised the issue of why no one is concerned about vocational training. We are very concerned on the left, and that is why we raised it so strongly in the group speech. This critical group statement by Mr Kivelä's Government would have liked the Finns of Finland to have raised this point, and I hope that this speech by Mr Kivelä means that you are now firmly opposed to these cuts in vocational education that the government is planning. Madam President! The government cuts a quarter of the basic income of students, the lowest income group. The government wants students to live on a loan and start their careers with large study debts on their backs. "Why can't students continue to borrow,respectfully done? "There's a lot of demand here. Well, today's working life is such that even high education does not guarantee a job, not to mention a decent salary. That's why the students are avoiding the loan.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u70	Mr President! The government’s education policy can rightly be called an all-time education policy breath. Among other things, because before the elections the party chairmen promised that education would no longer be cut off — what happened? Because the government is drastically cutting out universities and research and then marketing top-level projects — which compensate for a fraction of the cuts — as some form of development. Because the government is also talking about the need for structural changes in the university field but is not doing anything in addition to cutting measures. Since when are cuts alone, without any change in substance, a development? Because the government will make cuts in vocational education and training one year before the guiding legislation comes into force. Is this progress?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u71	Madam President! We also survived the previous recession through our research, development and innovation efforts and their success. A high level of education, sufficient resources for research to enable it and, would you say here that the three I's rule — an inspiring climate of innovation — was at that time and is a key, important, significant factor in achieving the result today? In our rapidly changing world, this is particularly important. How does the government plan to stop the brain drain that has already begun in Finland and to keep research projects of international importance in Finland? And what is thought to be Finland’s attraction factors to bring new international research projects to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u72	Värderade fru talman! Man frågar sig var läjarnas konsumentskydd finns. Före liet lovade ni, både statsminister Sipilä och dåvarande statsminister Stubb, och också de övriga i regeringen, att man inte skulle skära från utbildningen. Men vad har man gjort? Man har skurit, och man har skurit mycket. Vi vet att det rai landsets framgångberor på att vi har en vältbildad befolkning. Det är det som också ska livnära oss i framtiden, och därför är det tragiskt att regeringen fortsätter att skära i utbildningen på det ätt som man nu gör. Det handlar om millionaire, åter millionaire. Det handlar om många människor som blir uppsagda från våra universitet, och det ox kan rent av äventyra också Finlands framtid, framför allt forskningen är på spel.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u73	Mr President! The government has failed the Finnish people in two things: employment and the other is this issue of education and research.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u78	Madam Speaker! Although we have already found each other in many values with Mr Gustafsson, I would disagree that we would still have had a very wide-ranging or varied debate on education. I believe that we have had a rather one-sided debate, in which only this resource issue has been at the centre. My wish would be for us to be able to move a little further in this debate on the substance of the debate. The fact is that the previous government had to cut drastically, this government too has to cut, both governments have to reform, and perhaps the most fruitful debate is what we seek from that reform. Now that, as it were, the backboard has been set in relation to these cuts in this important spending limits decision, which also made further decisions on how to allocate funding to education, I would like us to be able to hold this very debate on the complex development of content which Mr Gustafsson called for in the remaining period. Because Finland will rise.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u79	Madam President! A great deal has been said today in this Chamber about the importance of equal education and, in particular, in the Finnish context, about how well it has been achieved. I fully agree with this, but I may not be so bold as to say that in Finnish society anyone can study anywhere. It is good to remember that we still have a lot of young people who, for example, have a journey to higher education or to an academic path or to a career that is very distant and long, both mentally and perhaps from their resources, especially if you come from a family or family where in any way that academic world is not dressed as words and reality. And I think that this is something that must also be taken into account in this debate. And then, when we talk about the loan-oriented nature of student aid, it will certainly not lower that threshold or pave the way, but we will potentially create at least one new obstacle there, and we will not then be on the side where we continue to work incessantly for that education, with all its books, to be open to young people of all backgrounds throughout this society on our own.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u80	Mr President! In his speech, the minister had found no evidence that borrowing in poorer families would be more difficult than in more wealthy families. A few proofs I managed to dig up there. According to a British survey, the loan to children of poor families appears to be a threatening cloud over the future, not as an investment in which it is traded. In Finland, 18 per cent of children of uneducated mothers agree to take out student loans, 27 per cent of children of those currently educated. The student barometer also points in the same direction: children of poor families are afraid to take out student loans. Why not? Well, it's because of a phenomenon like education inflation. It is much more likely that with the same degree a child from a good family, a rich family, will get a good job than a child from a poor family. As a result, it is at least likely that this reform will undermine social mobility.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u81	Mr President! If that were true, as the previous representative here testified, how can it be that in Sweden, where a loan-oriented model is chosen, social mobility is even greater than in Finland. In other words, this loan-oriented model will not really mean that only those whose parents can afford it can study, but it will mean that everyone can continue to study as far as they want through their own abilities and motivation. It is also good to remember that quite few countries have free education for everyone, as is the case in Finland. As far as these cuts in education are concerned, if 4 billion are cut from government spending, then I think that there is no one in this Chamber who would not understand that then it means that all the major categories of expenditure will be covered. But it is an important choice of values that the government now decided that education will no longer be cut off, and that it will be invested in it in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u82	Madam President! Yes, there is one party in this Chamber that ran major cuts of more than 4 billion and said that everywhere except education. And do you know which party it is? It's a collection. The current Minister of Education is the only politician in this Chamber who promised before, during and after the elections that there would be no cuts in education. Well, we well know what happened: the government has failed its educational promises. Well, even if these big decisions are not withdrawn, the open wound — the bone is visible — the Moomin patch and everyone knows that it does not work, yet now you gave your promise that the training will no longer be cut off. This training promise lasted 15 minutes:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u85	Mr President! The equality of opportunities is not at all compromised by this government, and it is not here to do so either. The opposition paints quite, you can say, misleading images.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u86	Mr President! The Greens were serious about the educational promise, and we are therefore disappointed that some of them were just joking. It is not responsible to citizens or voters that the elections talk about what happens, and then it is said that in a couple of weeks the economic situation changed, our assessment changed, and then the government came out of the government negotiations with very tough cuts in education. You should be ashamed if you're not already ashamed. Here I can say, Mr President, that on behalf of the Greens, I make the commitment that on the day that we are there, we will return this money to education which you have cut from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u89	Madam President! The Christian Democrats will continue to put forward constructive alternatives to the government's cutting policy. The KD has presented today its own supportive student support model, which rewards a hard-working student, encourages a job, encourages entrepreneurship and also takes into account family students.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u92	Mr President! In my view, the government's message came out very clearly in the speeches made by the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u99	Mr President! So if I heard correctly, the group chairman of the Finns Party just said that this cut from student money is a small cut. I could never have imagined that this board of directors sitting there would consider it reasonable to cut 80 euros per month from the student’s income — 80 euros per month. So I have missed something very much last season if there have been cuts of this kind at the table. I think the government should look in the mirror now. We're starting to be in those kind of waters. You promised me that before the election, you would never cut out of education again. We all have a broken heart for these educational cuts, and when education is not cut off, that promise did not even stand up to the government program. Now, before the spending limits debate, you promised that there would be no more cuts in education, but when the spending limits ran out, it was surprising that we should cut back on the resources of self-regulating education. How did this happen, though?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u100	Mr President! To the previous speaker: You said that you could not imagine that I would consider these cuts to be reasonable. Yet you just thought I said that because I didn't say anything like that. We find these surgeries, of course, awkward, like everyone else, and they are difficult for all of us. But if I quote your own opposition language, then when the previous government made a massive, merciless, desperate cut, when the previous government chose the short-sighted and wrong path, made an educationally hostile choice of values and rejected civilization, then the economic situation was better than that of this government in a similar situation. Is it not fair to say now that the fact is that every party in this room has been forced to take part in such cuts? And could it be that no party here does it except under duress, but under duress, everyone does it when there's nothing else they can do?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u104	Mr President! Education has brought down a class society in our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u105	Madam President! None of us have built their story alone, neither of us representatives nor of you esteemed ministers. It's the politicians' job to make a better world, to make it better, and to hold on to the good that we have. When you listen to this debate and compare it with your previous discussions, you probably think you are doing the right thing. However, we have a very different idea of what is better and what is good, what can be achieved with these large and cold cuts. My question now is: do you really and unscrupulously believe that misery, cuttings and just working at the limits of survival bring something good? Do you really believe it yourself?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u106	Mr President! Politics is always a live broadcast, literally, but sometimes it is worth diving into the living archive of politics, because there are interesting things there. This has also been done here today. A few examples: On 21 March 2013, in connection with the spending limits debate, the representative of the centre, Puumala, took a position on student support by saying that for all, the more loan-oriented Papa betalar model just does not work. Now it's working, Congressman Puumala? The alternative budget of the Finns Party stated that the government's planned cuts are likely to undermine the quality of teaching and research, which was in 2013. Well, these surgeries will raise the quality, won't they? It was also found that promised training cuts,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u107	Madam Speaker! At least there's time to answer that student part right now. The situation of students is indeed tight, and in this debate there is absolutely no attention to be paid to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u108	Mr President! Mr Kääriäinen made an important speech, and I must say that the Social Democrats have also tried to be responsible for the conduct of politics on the part of the opposition. We did a great deal of work on an alternative budget, which sought an alternative to these ghastly, very damaging cuts in the long-term, which are also linked to this training in particular. We found an alternative where less debt is taken from the government, the tax rate does not rise and these cuts in education can be combated. At the time, our alternative budget was used by the government to say that it is completely stupid that there is no fact behind it. I hope that the government will now look into this genuine alternative and therefore seek constructive work with the opposition. There are alternatives that can prevent these cuts in education and reach a situation where children will not be cut off in the future and research and product development training will not be cut off, skills, the basic values of Finnish society. I hope the government will focus on this, Prime Minister Sipilä.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u109	Mr President! In the field of universities and education there has been great disappointment in the education policy of the sitting government and the Minister of Education, and I am not surprised. The speech made just now by the Minister for Education hardly changed this situation. At the very end of your speech, you felt it necessary to minimize the cuts you had made. Among other things, you said that cuts in our education system could be a threat if the aim were to preserve the old one. How do you think this message will be received in Finnish universities that are doing very well in international comparisons, or in that best comprehensive school in the world? You also said that you could do a great deal of damage in the field of education if you were to use a cheese grinder, but you did not, because you always go ahead with reforms and pedagogy. For your information, the universities have been greatly puzzled by the fact that you do not seem to have any awareness at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u110	Madam President! First of all, we have to admit that we were unable to deliver on the educational promise we made in the elections. This is a fact and there is no need to argue about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u111	Mr President! I am a little surprised that it has not been discovered in this Chamber that the promises of training made in the spending limits debate were already being betrayed on the same day. In that respect, Mr Ben Zyskowicz, it is worth reading that decision on the spending limits very carefully. You have already cut back on the promises made in the spending limits debate. In that regard, it seems a real pity that citizens can be deceived in the way that this government has gone. If there was consensus in this country that this country was no longer in the weather of its education, then for some reason these promises were put in the cutter and then here they explain that we would all be in the same boat. There is an opposition here, and the Social Democrats in particular, have already announced that we would not have chosen such a line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u112	Mr President! In 2011, it was still estimated that, due to the reduction in the age groups, it was mainly through the reorganization and targeting of training places that savings could be achieved,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u115	Mr President! Few figures: the previous government period made 3.5 billion cuts in education, the current 3 billion. These are the figures from the financial unit of OKM, the facts. No more cuts in education and research, 105 million more money came, and thanks to the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u116	Madam President! We Christian Democrats understand that Finland's economy is still in poor oxygen, and therefore, contrary to what the government's representatives here claim, KD has proposed, once again instead of simply opposing, a constructive alternative to the government's policy of cutting. Once again, how does the government feel about our encouraging model of student support, which rewards the hard-working, who encourages contact with working life, which encourages entrepreneurship, which takes into account the family?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u117	Madam President! I have listened with interest to this debate on education today. I come from a family where my father had to quit school and support the family because of his own father's death, and his angle of income to his own sons was always that whatever you do, boys, I will try to help you, study as long as possible. I am speaking partly as Minister of Finance, partly as the father of two school-age children. As Minister of Finance, I would say in general terms that we have had some rather serious intermediate issues. Education cuts: everyone finds them unpleasant. Employment money: everyone finds cutting it unpleasant. Pensions: everyone finds cutting them unpleasant. Transport appropriations: everyone finds cutting them unpleasant. Our big problem is, of course, that we take turns barking at each other about individual surgeries, but quite rarely do we propose alternatives. The fact is that over the last few years we have increased public debt by around EUR 9 billion per year and on this journey we can no longer go on, because the very people we are talking about training are the people who, unfortunately, are the most affected by this debt burden. Then, perhaps more as the father of two school-age children, I was left to think about the fact that, in fact, none of the speeches, perhaps Mr Toivola as an exception, have sought constructive training paths. Of course, as Minister of Finance, there should be great concern about money alone, but we are heading towards the fourth industrial revolution, which is driven by digitalisation, robotisation, the Internet of goods, artificial intelligence, biotechnology and nanotechnology. We are moving towards a system of education where it may no longer make sense to go to school from seven to 28, for example. We are heading towards a system in which we are constantly having to retrain ourselves. My own children don't remember an era before a smartphone. It is very likely that their children will go to school with a vehicle without a driver. It is very likely that artificial intelligence or a computer will diagnose their illness considerably better than a doctor. This is the world we should prepare our children for. And I'm going to think, We in this Chamber have a high level of education. In my opinion, we could perhaps have a little more respectful debate on education and think about the paths that those young people who are also listening to this debate might take to think about their own future. Now we are focusing only on money, which, unfortunately, all of us have had to cut. Now it is worth focusing on those different paths for the future of education, which we can do much better.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u118	Then let's go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u119	Madam President! It is truly sad and shocking to hear that representatives of the government parties are defending the government's billions of educational cuts by the fact that, when the previous government did, we too can do more and more. Take on the left-wing Alliance's alternative budget and you will be able to give up these educational cuts too. We may have been proud of the fact that previous generations created this educational system of ours, which is also appreciated today around the world. Regrettably, government party representatives speak beautifully about education, but your actions do say something quite different. Minister, does it not scare you and the government at all of the consequences of the billions of training cuts you are driving in the future? Do you not have any concerns about Finland's permanent decline in skills, inequality in education or the social exclusion of an increasing number of children and young people?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u120	Värderade Talman! In his opening speech, Minister Grahn-Laasonen said that there was no structural development during the last parliamentary term. Well, has it happened now? Are we now developing the structure of higher education in a structural way? No, no, no. It is politically difficult, it requires choices, it requires justification. It's a lot easier to pull a cheese grinder over everything. You can always tell someone when they're taken from them. And in order to have something to laugh about in the house, let us draw an additional 30 million from the University of Helsinki — the only top unit. Is there a strategic vision in this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u121	Mr President! I am going back to study aid because, in addition to the cuts in education, we are also talking about the social security of students and the conditions for living. Study support is the only form of social security that is not automatically raised as purchasing power weakens even at the end of the government's index freezes. And the findings — whether from the current government or from the previous one — do not support the fact that Parliament or the government have the patience to consider student support at all by means of separate decisions so that a sustainable outcome can be achieved for the student. It is being medicalized and plastered along the way, but in practice this separate study grant will always lead to the student being in the most vulnerable position. That is why, now that the student money has remained radically behind in all expenditure developments, I would like to ask: When will we really get the student money on the same line with the others? When will students be equal?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u122	Madam President! At the moment, thousands of students and young people are thinking the same thing: Where can I get a job? Why does my efforts and skills seem to have no place in working life? Why is it that the content of my own education and degree may not be relevant and relevant to business life? Why is Finland in such a situation? How has Finland been allowed to be in this condition? Mr President! Making Finland fit is not easy, and it does not feel comfortable. For the Red Left, just to know that debt and national debt are not sustainable development, it is not sustainable economic development. If Finland drifts into the Greek road, then the brain drain will just start. I would like to point out that that is where I received the statement of the High School Union on how they thank me for finally and finally having a second-degree student equal to other people. This change in older income limits was eliminated, and there will be other fairness in the field of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u123	Madam President! A year ago at this time I sat in a very similar lecture hall at the University of Tampere with hundreds of other students. There's no point in thinking that living on a college grant would be a rosy dance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u126	Madam President! Representative Nurminen gave a relatively similar speech, which I was thinking about giving myself. I could tell my own story here. Until a year ago, I myself was a student — it is good that Mr Kurvise has a student perspective here — and I know how the 80-euro student allowance cuts feel. In fact, I did a small calculation when I listened to these speeches: 80 euros means about 31 student lunches, which means that the government is currently taking away student lunches from students for the whole month. This is a pretty shocking amount. This may bring you a little bit of the scale of the cut, which does not necessarily appear in your budgets. 80 euros is quite a lot of money. There's a lot of empty talk here, in this room. There is enough talk about the importance of education, but actions speak for themselves, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u127	Mr President! Has the opposition forgotten here that universities are independent institutions? So it depends largely on the university itself how it works. An excellent, positive example is the University of Turku. The University of Turku does not fire anyone, even though the savings line puts a big cut in the budget too. As a result of the comparisons, the University of Helsinki has been amazed at the large number of redundancies. Why does the University of Helsinki not use wealth to soften the blow? According to the financial statements of 2014, the University of Helsinki had a surplus of approximately EUR 88 million. Apparently, at the University of Turku it has been thought that a good crowd should be kept at work, even if the university is not in surplus. Kalervo Väänänen, President of the University of Turku, has said well: "The university has no real capital other than human capital. It is important to keep it in strike condition."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u128	Värderade Talman! Finansminister Stubb efferlyste ox för en stand sedan en gemensam discussion om alternativ och hur man skulle kunna erbjuda olika stupid av utbildningsvägar för våra unga. Minister Stubb: vi vill Jättegärna vara med och utveckla det rauta, och vivil vara med i diskussionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u129	Madam President! Work should always be at the centre and under the special protection of the government. That is why I would like to thank the government for the fact that the student's own income-recovery allowance and housing allowance now at least constitute 7.5% interest on the status of the former 15 — at least it is reasonable. To this question of content, how do you feel, Minister of Education, about the model that is used in many countries, such as Switzerland, that working life and study are more closely linked, as it were. Currently, university students in Finland work 57 per cent. Also in view of this difficult employment situation, should something be done to increase this percentage and give young people the most valuable experience in working life today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u130	Mr President! The government's savings focus on almost all education and training. For example, raising group sizes in day-care centres and schools is worrying. A group of 39 children can not even temporarily be in the best interests of any child. Thousands of staff are being laid off from universities, and teachers in vocational schools have told me of their concern that if education continues to be reduced, some of the students will be left entirely to themselves. In other words, fewer resources and at the same time teachers are invited to be creative and to reform and develop. In many schools, schools and universities uncertainty about the future is growing and so is the workload. In addition, the Minister sends reprimand messages to operators. These things exhaust workers, and no one is able to be creative, innovative and pro-development in such circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u131	Mr President! Education cuts are realised in very different ways in different groups of people and regions. Whoever has money or whose family, their parents have money, these cuts don't feel like anything. On the contrary, even on the most advantageous terms, a rich family parent receives his student loans from a bank, a child of a poor family. And then this regional perspective. You said, Minister, that you have appointed former Minister of Regional Affairs and Local Government Hannes Manninen as liquidator in Lapland, and Manninen is a professional in many ways. But does it not tell you that this educational chaos, the cuts in education, is precisely the reason for the disunity that arises in that area between regions and educational organizations when there is no certainty about the future? And now there is a threat that effective education systems will be scrapped, and trust in each other in the regions and also in the state will be lost.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u132	Mr President! Last season, one-fifth of the funding for polytechnics was cut, and now in another way snow falls into the house for some polytechnics. As a result of the transitional provision, the Ministry has subsequently amended the basic funding of universities of applied sciences through so-called transfer items. Well, what does this mean? According to the funding model, 12 universities of applied sciences that have achieved the best results have been cut by nearly EUR 17 million from the funding for 2016 and have been transferred to less successful universities of applied sciences, some of which operate in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. So the funding model for polytechnics has not been encouraging results, but vice versa, punishing them, although it was supposed to be different, as agreed in 2014. The university's performance funding model has never had such a transfer batch procedure, but university funding has been determined directly on the basis of the results achieved. I'm asking, why on earth? This is very unfair.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u133	Mr President! As the Minister of Finance said, we are living in a great change. There is talk of a creative disaster in which more than 30% of occupations may die in the next 20 years, but new occupations will then be created. Indeed, lifelong education has become more and more important. I wonder why, then, you are cutting the cost of self-employed education by EUR 47 million, which is precisely where life-long learning would be particularly important. As Minister Stubb said, our education system should be transformed into a world of change. For example, should our qualification system be changed to make it easier to identify individual learning paths, already acquired skills? Or would we need a completely new type of hybrid qualification that can combine knowledge in different fields? As Mr Nylander said, the opposition will gladly be involved in reforming our education system and preparing a report on education policy in parliamentary preparation, together with all government parties and parliamentary parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u134	Mr President! The promise of education became an educational fraud, and it is, of course, embarrassing. Before the elections, all parties said that it would no longer take to cut out education. And this promise has now been betrayed, and this cannot be spoken away. A quarter of the student allowance is a gross act. They want to force the students to go into debt now. The student loan is not popular among students, and it is no wonder, because even high education does not necessarily guarantee a well-paid and stable job and therefore the ability to pay the loan to current students. The emphasis on loans also discriminates between fields of study, because it is quite different to pay back tens of thousands of euros if you graduate as a hard-paid doctor than if you graduated as a low-paid kindergarten teacher or an insecure archaeologist. Borrowing is also socially unequal. Those with rich and generous parents do not even need to borrow, but children of poor families have no choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u135	Madam President! Unfortunately, the math that the government is using here for these educational savings would be left to the class at school. But it may be that after these training savings we can no longer afford it. Mr President, I would have liked to ask a question here to the Prime Minister, who has just left. But I ask you now, Minister of Education: when the Minister of Finance has just spoken of the need to retrain at different stages of the career, you are now cutting the cost of this self-employed education by reducing people's opportunities to re-train in the event of unemployment, that is to say, to train themselves so as to improve access to employment, to move from unemployment to work. Do we not agree that only by working will this Finland rise? Mr President! Minister of Education, tell me again in plain English: You have said here that this 100 million is an additional contribution. Are you sure it's all new money for the frame?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u136	Madam President! If the transfer of students to the general housing allowance takes place in the budget debate next autumn, it will be a good decision, along with other patch solutions, except perhaps in the case of family students, but it will not eliminate the fact that the cuts to education and student support are completely unreasonable. On the basis of this discussion, it seems that the government is pounding its suspenders when it gives tens, takes hundreds and offers debt. Since you cannot, Minister of Education, ask for these promises you have made to the people, I ask, as Mr Lindtman has just said: Where does this 105 million come from, is it new money, is it out of somewhere, as is the rest of the patch money? Are they from somewhere else?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u137	Then the representatives of Estonia and Kiljunen, and then the floor to Minister Lindström.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u138	Madam President! For two and a half hours I have listened very carefully to the speeches made by representatives of the opposition. None of you have paid a word of attention to the group, that is, the people who do not have a degree. When we know from the statistics that without a degree there will be no employment or very short, fragmented careers, 26 years for men on average and 23 years for women, would it not have been appropriate to thank the government for increasing learning in the workplace, lowering access to apprenticeships and opening up a new training agreement capable of obtaining a qualification at the workplace?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u141	Madam President! During this spring, young people have applied for a place of education and wondered what they would like to do in the future. The situation has been very contradictory in many respects, as the government is weakening student support, reducing training places and also making it difficult for many students to continue their studies. Among other things, you are cutting secondary vocational training places by 17,000.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u142	Madam President! Interesting conversation. Quite a lot of blaming, who did when and what, and very little trying to understand what this situation is. There seems to be a little bit of this blame on the sides and the other way around, but let's now try to answer these questions. First of all, I think that Mr Multala was the first to raise this most important point, that employment is the most important thing. That is precisely the case. That is why the government and the Ministry of Labour and Life have done and will take a lot of new measures to make it easier for people to work. We are trying to deal with unemployment and, at the same time, we must have an industrial policy with jobs. An apprenticeship has already been mentioned here as the right option for young people, a training agreement — these are important issues — to dismantle the incentive traps and to extend the scope of the unemployment allowance paid by the State, i.e. the basic daily allowance to pay subsidies, start-up grants, mobility grants. I think it is a rather significant reform, for which I have not heard much praise, although the SDP has also called for it. You have presented your own so-called model of the Ringe. There will be no such thing, it is not the model of the Ring, it is the model of the TEM, and you will see the fundamental difference when it is presented in due course. Self-motivated education, and the alleged cut of 47 million here: that money will be re-allocated in a new way. Most of it goes to pay subsidies. Isn't that a pretty good thing? I think it is. It is targeted at another place, which means that it is not an operation, but that money is used in another place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u145	Next, Minister Grahn-Laasonen will answer, and when so many questions have come, then five minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u146	Mr President! At the beginning, I would like to say to Minister Lindström that you can continue to study with unemployment benefit. Yesterday's spending limits debate did not cut more on education and research; on the contrary, we are able to do some refocusing so that we can invest EUR 105 million, especially for higher education and young researchers. Nor did I understand or understand the question of new money. There is no new money falling from heaven, but the decision on the spending limits is a whole. The Government's long-term savings of EUR 150 million from student support to EUR 122 million are reasonable in relation to student support. And since we also agreed in this context on the model of student support and in that context we stated that it will generate more funding than the one we were evaluating in the discussions on the government programme, it will enable us to improve the conditions for study with this money and also to ensure that higher education develops; that its pedagogy develops; that we can bring digital learning environments; that we can see the direction in which the whole of higher education develops, i.e. more and more to allow for non-time and place-based studies, also enable summer-time studies and so on — that is, building a future higher education system. I very much appreciate the contributions that have been made here in connection with the development of education and the construction of such a common vision. And I believe that the great strengths of our Finnish education system are that the education system is being strongly developed by experts. When it comes to experts, I mean experts at a very large number of levels: I am talking about our teachers, who are the best in the world, those with master's level, those with pedagogical skills, who have a lot to say and a great deal of opportunities to influence the development of the Finnish education system in their own work. Similarly, I am referring to our highest-educated researchers and university and polytechnic communities and all those who develop education, including those who run the education system. And, of course, as political players, we must make every effort to enable the development of the education system and actively contribute to this development by creating the framework and building a common vision. A lot has been asked about what is the government's higher education policy line and where it comes from. Our university policy policy is based on a number of international and domestic assessments and studies carried out in recent years. Our higher education system has been evaluated several times by the OECD, the Commission, the International Assessment Panel, and then there are domestic assessments, including regular implementation by the Academy of Finland. The state of science is one of these documents that I very much appreciate and have been through. These will then draw the conclusions of the way in which we can build a stronger system of higher education for future generations, for the future, with a clearer division of labour, concentration on strengths, building strong centres of expertise, structural development, which is not of absolute value, but a stronger system capable of working both on the scientific side and strongly on the higher education side, bringing economic added value to our society, as well as much more — good ideas. Increasing cooperation is also crucial between our higher education sectors, and you asked what to do, what to do, so I can tell you that at the moment, the Ministry of Education and Culture, in close cooperation with the University of Tampere and the Tampere University of Technology, is preparing a merger between these two universities and the University of Applied Sciences is coming into this same group. The same development is taking place in Lappeenranta and Lapland, as I told you, and the Ministry of Education and Culture is strongly involved in this. We are currently reforming the funding model for universities, universities and universities of applied sciences, to correct the flaws that may be present in it and which the university field has also strongly proposed. We will bring more effectiveness to the criteria for its funding and with strong information guidance, good cooperation, not dictated but cooperation, building trust, not only to support these reforms but also to tell you that we appreciate very much the work that is being done in Finnish universities and universities of applied sciences and in our entire education system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u147	Mr President! These are my papers that show that during the last term of government a total of some 130,000... That's $130 million. 130,000...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u150	Mr President! Having listened to this debate here from the beginning makes me feel rather sad when I say it frankly. I very much agree with what Mr Stubb said about the fact that there is a fairly high level of civilisation here, but this level of debate only revolves around these euros. I understand that money is an important issue, but the core issue is what we are doing, how we are able to bring education into line with the needs of working life and the future, and that is what we have done everything we can and will continue to do. I think we have evidence from this government that we are slowly starting to grow and life is recovering, and then we have to look at solutions together, and that is why I am very disappointed that only numbers are being run here, which are important in themselves, but the content still determines what the main issue is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u151	Madam President! This is where Congressman Terho compared the cuts in this season and last season. Of course, Mr Terho was in Brussels at the time and does not remember the debate, but the emphasis was on the fact that too many cuts have already been made, and that is all there is to be done. Now those surgeries are on top of those old surgeries. But I understand that Mr Terho, who is tougher in thatcher than Mr Stubb, the finance minister, thinks that cuts are a good thing. What amazes me, however, is Mr Puumala, with whom we worked very well last season: we worked together on a mid-term issue of education, we defended study aid together — as the minister responsible for study aid, I did not give up a cent in the desire for a study loan-oriented model — and we worked together, even though you were in the opposition, in the rejection of these ideas of the assembly. Why is the centre now eating out of the hands of the Coalition Party in education policy and ready to move to student loan focus?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u154	Madam Speaker! That is why, on the basis of Mrs Wallin's question, I presented her own idea of how to transfer students from student housing allowance to general housing allowance, which is also a major structural reform. I hope you can give it some support. Then I find this debate, to which Mr Anttila referred last time, extremely important. It has now really taken the initiative of Mr Nylander and Mr Eloranta, i.e. that we should be able to form together in Parliament, the various parties, a little vision of how to proceed in terms of content from 2019 onwards. There's life after that. It should also be possible to create a little perspective on how working life really changes and what it means in terms of education, and a little hope for the educational sector. After the cuts in the previous government and this government, that life will certainly not end. On the contrary, education has an extremely important role to play. From this thinking we should, Minister, take a catch and think about this future
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u155	Mr President! Representative Anttila and many other representatives of the city centre have been asking questions here, which is why we are talking about numbers. Well, I think it is quite clear that we are talking about numbers. Money and resources are crucial, they also determine content, quality and the things that have been discussed here today. I would also like to receive an answer to what has been asked here earlier: the Government has announced in its spending limits debate and, on many occasions, that further efforts are coming. What does this mean, however, when people have just heard that there is no additional money coming? Where is this money being transferred from?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u158	Madam President! The government's cuts to universities are sorely affecting many. The University of Eastern Finland alone will have to cut nearly EUR 10 million. The first one under the guillotine is Savonlinna School of Teacher Education, which the university will decide on next week. Here the government has asked whether the opposition does not value the autonomy of universities. We appreciate it, but it is worth remembering that it is always the government of the country that bears responsibility for the adequacy of qualified professionals. And when the Kajaani Teacher Education Institute was abolished some years ago, the end result has been that the starting points have moved away from the parent university, partly and, above all, Kainuu has no qualified teachers. Until now, all previous governments have given separate funding to the University of Eastern Finland to maintain Savonlinna's teacher education institution.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u159	Madam President! I do not want to criticise the current government for not cleaning up the cuts made by the previous government. They are true, and they will not be healed if we require you to return them. It's been politics in that moment, but cheating on a school vow is a betrayal, and that's a fact. It's an immoral act against students, universities, and that's the responsibility you'll never get away with. Thank you, Mr Stubb, for your speech, which was emotional, there were very many good things in it. The only thing is that it is a little out of proportion with what the government has done when, however, self-regulating training is cut. You have made it clear that society is always moving forward, that there must be a capacity for change. This line is not in line with your speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u160	Mr President! I was a member of the Aho Lama government's civilised political group. At that time, as Mr Grahn-Laasonen said, education was cut, but there were also major structural reforms and Finland started to rise, the level of education rose, engineers came to Nokia and so on. The results speak for themselves. It is now of the utmost importance that both Minister Grahn-Laasonen and Minister Lindström are working on the lines that have been outlined, i.e. you are reforming the entire education and research system from the bottom up. That's your solution for the future. The opposition calls for more money and opposes reforms in practice. This is not going to make Finland rise. Now we have a good grip, and this is the line on which we should proceed in accordance with the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u161	Mr President! I do not know whether anyone in this Chamber has opposed this reform, but it has been opposed to reform by taking away the money. I do not know how it will reform our student money if you take EUR 86 out of it. It may be called renewal, but it will then be EUR 86 less a month. And then on to these good things. For example, the elimination of the impact of the income of parents of secondary students — very good, thank you for that. The same change in the housing allowance, but it must also remember that when you look at family students, those who then live in the household of more people, for example, will have the support lowered. This will add to the bill, i.e. over the EUR 86. It's a pretty big cut from a certain group of people in a month, and last autumn, when it was horrified by the cuts in the housing allowance for pensioners, the government had the wisdom to cancel it and moderate it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u162	Mr President! There has been a debate here about this part of self-employed education, so I would like to make it clear that this is not a question of saving education but of saving travel expenses. So it is a matter that if an unemployed person wants to apply for this continuing education and obtain other training, then in the past he has received an expense for travel expenses, and this is becoming the saving, not directly for this training. But once these SDP alternative budgets have been served here, in this context, as this revenue side continues to rely on these few questionable revenue items, such as this fight against the black economy, an additional EUR 20 million would add to the amount of EUR 200 million, I would ask how this can be true. There is this financial tax which does not yet exist, even in Sweden, to which you refer here. Similarly, this reduction in car tax, 115 million, which has already been used several times in the speeches of the demarcations, has in fact proved to be the result of a reduction in this accumulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u163	Madam President! It is an excellent thing that Mr Mäkelä here acknowledged that this is an operation. It does weaken the condition for these unemployed people to acquire the additional skills that are often needed, especially in the event of a prolonged unemployment, in order to have access to the labour market. As far as these options are concerned, the government would have had the opportunity to extend the tax base towards, for example, the undertaxed financial sector, but you made a choice of values and did not do so. Yes, Mr Zyskowicz, it's a choice of values. But, Mr President, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, you did not answer my question. A moment ago, in front of Parliament, you said that the government will make an additional contribution of EUR 105 million. You said you used the term "additional input". Now I ask you: this money is not from anywhere else but it is, as you have just said before Parliament, an 'additional effort'. That's a yes or no answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u164	Mr President! Now, it is good that we are actually going to go over this self-employed training allowance. This means that if a person is unemployed, he or she can use earnings-related unemployment benefit to study, for example, the completed studies or further studies. That is a very good thing. Now we come to what the government has suggested, that he should not receive travel expenses, but that, as Minister Lindström said, it should be used to pay the other unemployed. Is the SDP’s choice of values really better for the same person to receive a travel allowance than for another unemployed person to receive a pay subsidy and thereby gain access to it in their lives? Is this really your choice of values?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u165	Mr President! It's something that's touching. Last year there were 36,000 people studying on their own. You know what? Between 60 and 65 % of these were women over two years. The effects of this will be very dramatic. I too have been associated with a great many people over the years, for whom the EUR 9 for travel costs and these expenses are absolutely crucial. Of course, the fact that it is now being re-transferred to pay support would not in itself be wrong. It should only have been done in some other way, but now it is just going to put these women who want to graduate, as if they were paying those who are taking part in the wage subsidy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u166	There are still ten people here who have not made a single contribution to the debate. Let us go through them now, and then we shall have to move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u167	Mr President! When about 80 speeches have been heard here, it is certainly not clear to anyone that the government is cutting out of education. But it has certainly not been clear to anyone that this is not pleasant, on the contrary. But it would be even more unpleasant if we were to raise our hands in the big goal of putting Finland in shape and turning the direction of Finland's economy. I believe that today's young people and future young people will certainly thank you for making a change for the government. This spending limits debate, the spending limits decision, showed that the Board of Directors is also capable of decision-making and operational in this regard. Then this question of scale, that although significant cuts are now being made to the higher education sector, it is good to note that in 2019 there will still be a level that was in 2010. Even then, things were not too bad, so there is a positive sign. I'm sure we'll get through this, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u168	Värderade fru talman! I dag är det den 6 april och vårens student ska Senast i dag söka till högskolor. Min äldsta dotter hör till dem, därför har vi diskuterat ganska mycket utbildning hemma. Jag kan försäkra er om att det inte har variants alldeles latt att övertyga henne om att det fortfarande lönar sig att utbilda sig, och att forskning och utbildning är Finlands framtidsväg. Jag har ändå sagt att både Finlands regering och ricksdag nog står bakom det tauri och att ska söka in och börja studera.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u169	Madam President! We have a lot of administrative work in our schools, and I believe that the desire of many people who have received pedagogical training, both principals and teachers, would be to do the work they have been trained for. I would have asked the Minister, therefore, when, in my opinion, you have taken up in your administrative field the idea of cutting red tape across the government programme: do you have any plans to rationalize in any way the demands for all kinds of reporting, for different statistical requests on persons employed by the education service, for principals, for teachers? I would consider this to be highly justified in the context of a meagre budget. Of course, we have important plans, demands. There has been an unfortunate accident in my own municipality today, a danger at school, and in that sense it is important that we also have such safety plans, but would there be room for rationalisation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u170	Mr President! This week, the collection of signatures for a free language selection for a citizens' initiative aimed at all educational institutions in Finland has begun. An experiment in the Government Programme on the free choice of languages would improve the motivation of many students to study languages as a genuine freedom of choice and thus increase the number of international language experts in our working life. It would also be very important to get the widest possible picture across Finland of the benefits of language testing. In Eastern Finland, the Russian language would probably be a very popular choice, while in Inner Finland, for example, world languages such as Chinese and Spanish could gain a wider foothold. Mr President! In particular, in the context of increased competition on export markets, the benefits of free choice of languages must be taken advantage of. I therefore call on the government to take urgent action in this regard to broaden the scope of Finnish language skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u171	Madam President! Mr Stubb rightly called for a change in the content of education, and I warmly encourage the development of education and schools on behalf of both education and others. Training needs to change. For example, there is bullying, for there is a good example that you can save without cutting. Even this year, about 4,000 children each year are being bullied and some of the bullies are being damaged to the point of failure. The price of one excluded child has been calculated at EUR 1 million. I warmly encourage us to intervene and find a solution to this issue for all of us. The Finnish Student Unions stated that it is intolerable that the largest individual-level cuts should again be directed at the less vulnerable group, the students. Minister and Government, you speak beautiful, you say to these student organisations that it is pointless to worry that you invest and value. Will black turn white as you say?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u172	Mr President! Our country's economy is plagued by debt and severe unemployment. The last government left us 300,000, and it's grown. I know we don't have the wealth to share something good with people. On the other hand, these painful cuts have been and will continue to have to be carried out. Nevertheless, I dare say that we have world-class education and have relatively good early childhood education, basic education, where each child gets a free meal, for example. Is it available elsewhere? And today every young person can study even until the doctoral degree, even though at the moment there are more than a thousand unemployed doctors. In my opinion, the main area of concern for young people is where you can find the first job where you can build your life. And contrary to what has been discussed here, I certainly hope, my heartfelt wish is that this enterprise will grow, perhaps now there is a little of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u173	Mr President! The government cuts education a lot, and this is reflected in the places of education and in the number of teachers. On the other hand, the government has promised to make standard landings in order to counterbalance the situation of these institutions. At the end of last year, Parliament required that the Government urgently examine the possibility of removing the restrictions on the transfer of property from the State of VET organisers and prepare the necessary changes in order to make savings from the walls instead of teaching. So far, there have been no reports of changes. So I ask the Minister: what is the situation and is the government going to take care of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u174	Mr President! The news of this debate is, indeed, that the government admits that, after all, self-support for education was cut out, which was a genuine reform by the previous government. Mr Grahn-Laasonen must now answer the question as to whether this is an additional EUR 105 million, as he said before Parliament, or whether it is a cosmetic transfer. Yes or no. Mr President! In short, about the knowledge-based economy, which has been Finland's strength: The Government is destroying Finland's science, research and innovation system. The mandates of Ikes will be cut by EUR 130 million, about one third. Society's contribution to research and product development is already among the lowest in the OECD countries. At the same time, the government is investing in its own selected projects. This surprises me that it is the right-wing government that will return to Finland the plan guidance of the 1970s. The most glaring example: universities and research institutes will confiscate as much as EUR 80 million in their own political research. It's a political investigation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u175	Then it's pretty full. One more reply: it is for Mr Uotila. Then the Minister has the opportunity to comment if he wishes. — — — — Congressman Uotila.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u176	Madam President! Minister, in your reply to the intermediate question, you went a little behind the head of the Bank of Finland and you said that he brought a message to the spending limits debate that the more we move the fold of debt and the adjustment of the economy, the more suffering future generations will be, and therefore the more painful cuts will benefit young people in particular. I disagree with teaching, knowledge, research cuts. These investments in these sectors are investment in the future. And, as we know, high-quality early childhood education alone will bring back seven times the stake in the future. Cutting off education, knowledge, research can never be in the interests of future generations or today’s young people, but vice versa. I cannot understand this logic, although of course it is in everyone's interest to balance and adjust the economy in general.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u177	And now, Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, three minutes, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u178	Mr President! Once again, thank you for a good debate, where even progress was made at the end. Just a few comments on these details, which were asked a lot. The framework decision is a whole. You are talking about new money, but it is not the new money that falls from anything, but the decision on the spending limits forms a whole. And I have already told you how this entity has been formed, which means that the EUR 105 million will come here as a new investment in an area where it has never been before, namely the development of university pedagogy and digital learning environments. That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u181	Let's give Secretary Stubb two minutes off the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u182	Mr President! With regard to training, cutbacks and frameworks, only the following observation is made: The whole package of yesterday's spending limits decision on education and research consists of three things, the first being that there was no further cut in education and research. The second was that the index freezes...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u185	A debate took place just now, which is about two hours long, and that is why I give one speech to the representatives of the opposition, that is to say, I give the floor to Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u186	Mr President! I thank you for this opportunity, because I think it is important that this be made clear now. It is clear that you compensated for these new index savings, and that would have been the lack of further index savings in education. But then this is EUR 105 million. I now understand that Minister Grahn-Laasonen said that nothing has become new money but has been refocused.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u189	Mr President! It is good to make this clear for the third time now, as I said here, and this 105 million, which we are able to do as a new investment specifically in the development of higher education and digital learning environments in higher education, is an investment that has not been made in the past, and it also provides us with a tool to develop, among other things, higher education, digital learning environments, which are precisely the solutions for the future, and also to support young, talented researchers at the beginning of their careers. I have already said here that yesterday the government made a study aid decision in which we moderated the long-term savings target of the government programme from 150 million to 122 million, and we also specified the model of the study aid saving. As part of the construction of this model, it was also clarified that this savings were accumulated at different times, at a different rate than the information available during the Government Programme negotiations, which was very understandable because then we had not yet built this model, but the time was now. This enabled us to refocus this new contribution specifically on the development of higher education pedagogy. There is nothing extraordinary about this, and I have told you this for the third time, and I also thank you for being very attentive to the opposition and for following the decisions of the government. What was very important to me in yesterday's spending limits decision was precisely that we decided that there would be no further cuts in education — some cuts, such as this study aid, were made more reasonable with regard to the long-term objective, and in this context we were also able to make some wise retargets, including those mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u190	On this point, I would like to give a response to the opposition's group statement to Mrs Eloranna, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u191	Mr President! Minister Grahn-Laasonen has just spoken about the reform of vocational education and training. Reform is indeed needed, but the way in which the government manages it does not get very high points, for you first save 248 million, 4 million academic hours in vocational education and only after these savings have been made will you guide their renewal through legislation. You leave the field of vocational education and training alone to cope with these savings without guidance. Is this responsible action? It is worth remembering, by the way, that the less local education a young person receives there in vocational education, the worse the studies will progress and the fewer those graduates will be. We all know that at least vocational training is the best guarantee of access to employment on the labour market, and that is what we need so much today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u192	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u193	Mr President! It is true that in the everyday life of school and educational institutions we do not fight over money, but do the everyday work which, as the Minister pointed out, our highly educated professionals have received their education and where they have had the professional passion in their time. I will continue with this question, the bureaucracy of education. Indeed, in our educational institutions, both principals and teachers have to make a variety of plans: important plans, plans that are essential to its work, but also a variety of statistical reports that do not actually involve the core role of the school. Mr President! I think it is very important that we should be able to collect different statistical data on education, what results we will achieve at educational level, but I think that, in these difficult times, we should be able to use the working time of these professionals specifically for this education. Teachers must be allowed to teach, and principals must be allowed to lead, especially pedagogically, to be pedagogical leaders. This is an issue that constantly receives feedback from the field of education. It is considered that the nuclear work, that educational work, does not leave much time. I would like to emphasise that we have many important plans, the curriculum, of course, which is the most important of all, but it is these statistical reports and various statistical surveys, which take quite a lot of staff time each year, that should be able to rationalise and implement in modern ways, in accordance with the spirit of digitalisation, and also in such a way that they can then benefit from the development of their own educational institution and the development of its pedagogical work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u194	Mr President! In Finland, everyone has and must have equal opportunities to study free of charge in the future. Of all the government's savings, training savings are the hardest to achieve. It is clear that there is no desire to cut the income of students. The students already have to get along very little. Saving is required in the background because the economic situation in Finland is difficult. This is why the government's savings apply to each administrative sector and to each population group. Despite the saving efforts, the government is committed to maintaining the level of higher education and research. As an indication of this, we can refer to yesterday's spending limits, where the additional savings were no longer allocated to training. On the contrary, an additional EUR 105 million was made to strengthen the position of young researchers, among others. With regard to the reform of the student allowance, much has been referred to in the intermediate question and debate, Professor Roope Uusitalo's report. It is good to remember that reforms in the area of student support have not yet been finalised and the new model of student support is being developed. As evidence of this, the Government is preparing, among other things, a proposal to transfer students to general housing allowance, to reduce the 15% increase in the recovery rate of student aid to 7.5% and to link the income limits of student support to the index of earnings. There has been a great deal of concern about increasing the focus on loans. Increasing the share of the loan has been feared to undermine the equal opportunities of young people for study and thus to weaken the equal opportunities of citizens that are important to us Finns. It has even been mentioned that the new model cuts wings from the future. However, efforts are being made to increase the share of the loan so as to maintain a level playing field. The repayment periods are long, the interest rates are small and the loan credit is granted to those who will be completed in the target period. In this way, students from families with lower incomes will continue to have the opportunity to study and graduate in the target period. Students in upper secondary education are now receiving the same amount of study grant as students in higher education. This, too, is an increase in equality. So much is being invested in the future of students, despite the very difficult economic situation and the great pressure of cutting. Mr President! In the intermediate question, it has been mentioned that the student may have a loan of up to EUR 20000 to EUR 30000 upon completion. However, such high amounts of loans will be very rare. The average amount of loans will be between EUR 6000 and EUR 10000. It should be borne in mind that the current model of student support has enabled loans of more than EUR 20000. In addition, Finland's position as a top country of education and competence will not be affected by the reforms. Based on recent international comparisons, Finland is still part of the small group of countries that have managed to combine excellent knowledge outcomes, equality and efficiency in education. Examples of countries with a loan-oriented student support system are Denmark and Sweden, both well-functioning countries of excellence. The government has also had to save money from universities and research. Due to the previous government's cuts in education, the starting position has already been weak. Fortunately, however, less can be achieved now, and it appears from yesterday's spending limits debate that there is no prospect of further savings. The Government’s aim has not been to save money but to reform: to create new centres of expertise, to make better use of the existing know-how of the higher education network, and to widen the gap between education and innovation. These objectives are at the heart of the reforms. This has been demonstrated yesterday by an increased effort to strengthen the position of young researchers, as I mentioned earlier. With their strong expertise, universities and universities themselves decide on the subject of savings, the need for and form of reforms, the government does not prescribe it. The principals of several higher education institutions themselves have stated that there is a need for reforms and have taken decisive steps to implement reforms. The steady goal of student support reform and higher education reform is to ensure equal opportunities for all and to make high-quality science in the future. Finally, it was very good news, and it is a great thing that we have made progress on these lending payments, that is to say more 2 million. Borrowing payments have been dragging in for a long time if you compare with other Nordic countries. Little by little, we will achieve what we have been trying to achieve. And, as the Minister has already mentioned, it is an excellent thing for everyone to be guaranteed a secondary education place. It's really important. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u195	We will continue the debate for a while after the 81 speeches that have just been made, and now we are going a little further on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u196	Mr President! Economic rebalancing continues, but training and research were protected from new savings. Thank you to the Minister for providing up to EUR 105 million in additional funding for higher education and research. This was a very important choice of values from the government. Savings on student support will also be moderated by the presentation of liquidator Uusitalo. But student support continues to be targeted However, the students also received happy news from the spending limits debate: After all, parents’ incomes will not affect the student support of adult upper secondary students who live independently in the future. Unreasonable interest on the recovery of student aid will also be significantly reduced. In addition, the Government is preparing a proposal to transfer students to the general housing allowance, as student organisations have long hoped. The opposition’s dramatic speeches sometimes give the impression that education and support for students in Finland are running out of savings to balance the economy. Of course, this is not true. Students will continue to receive significant support in many areas of life: In addition to student support and loan, meal support for university students will allow for a wide variety of meals at relatively low cost. At the second level, students' school trips are supported. The state finances high-quality health services for students in the FSHS. A student discount is used in transport. And support for housing has contributed to the low-cost rent level of student housing. A fair credit for student loans will also reward the completions and significantly reduce the amount of repayable loans within the deadline. Remember this: a fair student loan credit. Mr President! Equality in education, the fact that every child and young person have equal opportunities to train regardless of their family background, is an extremely important issue for the assembly. It's one of the fundamentals for us. Professor In the course of the study aid study, Uusitalo did not find scientifically significant evidence to support the opposition’s allegations of a deterioration in the equality of education due to the savings in student aid. Here, too, it is good to look at Sweden, where the inheritance of education is lower than Finland despite student loan-oriented student support. I also think it is sometimes appropriate to reflect on what affects young people's enthusiasm for training. Do you think it would be to encourage families and sort of model learning? Mr President! In the past, the training has been saved mainly by curdling. Now, in a difficult situation, structural reforms are as they should be and can also be seen as an opportunity to improve the quality of education. I believe that, despite the scarcity of resources, we can achieve even better results through open-minded reform of education. What is important is that reforms focus on improving learning outcomes. Promoting the digitalisation of education can certainly also achieve great results. Today’s children are used to using iPads, computers and other devices to play and learn new things from an early age. Unfortunately, however, in many schools their use is limited, and I do not think it makes any sense. Children learn best when they are enthusiastic and have different means of learning at their disposal. And we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that the management of digital skills is also a prerequisite for survival in working life. But I would still like to always remind you that digitalisation is not an absolute value and bliss.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u197	Mr President! This Parliament is now giving out the wrong information.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, there are six speeches from the next list of speakers from both the opposition and the government. Then we will go to the debate where we will be able to return to the points on which there is a desire to return. But now we're going on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u203	Mr President! Right now, we are concerned about the employment and livelihood of people. Our long-term challenge is, as we know, to bring the economy into a sustainable growth path and to manage debt. Public finances must be adapted. However, cutting out of education does not respond well to these challenges. On the contrary, it can both reduce growth potential and increase future expenditure, for example in the face of difficulties in employment. There are alternatives to surgery. The opposition has proposed alternative means of adaptation, without prejudice to training. It is common to them that the government apparently prefers cuts in education. For example, RKP would reduce investment in key projects. We Greens would reduce subsidies that are harmful to the environment and we have also been prepared to cut compensation for private doctors, for example. The SDP and the Left Alliance would reform taxation in different ways. The Christian Democrats would increase the tax burden and step up the fight against the black economy. Of course, opposition groups' proposals also have drawbacks. My group, for example, was looking for a solution in cutting environmental subsidies that would not unduly burden anyone's employment, business or mobility. But even if you lose, you can't avoid it. So it is not a question of whether, for example, this or that solution is nice to make. It is a question of whether it is a better response to the challenges of public finances than to cuts in education. I think that all the opposition's proposals will win over cutting out of education. Mr President! Education is worthwhile and needs to be reformed, but productivity is not only improved by cutting. Improvements require time, work, patience, and also effort and error. The best innovations arise in cooperation with the educational field, taking into account everyday circumstances and needs. For example, regional cooperation between vocational institutions has led to good results in many municipalities. Regional education is seen more as a whole. This job has taken time. Even in upper secondary schools, we should increase regional cooperation. Example: One side of the municipal border is threatened with ending well-functioning upper secondary school. Then, very close to the other side of the municipal border, a new and expensive high school will be built. Staring at municipal boundaries easily leads to a waste of resources. Universities have also developed their activities. For example, there is Tampere 3, which has already been mentioned here, where two universities and polytechnics are merging. The project started on the initiative and needs of educational institutions, not as a panic solution forced by savings. I believe that this is precisely why it can bring not only other benefits but also economic benefits. It is great that the government is also supporting this. The reform work also often talks about reducing the administrative burden. Administrative work is often not an institution's own invention or disappears by cutting, but requires, for example, reporting obligations imposed by the state. The only way to reduce administrative burdens is by facilitating obligations. Mr President! I am particularly concerned about vocational institutions. I believe that the critical limit to the cuts to which they have been cut has already been exceeded. In these institutions, students drop out too often without knowledge of a new place of study or job. The risk of falling on nothing is high. This threatens both to increase costs of exclusion in the future and to weaken growth. Discontinuations have a clear link to how much education and support the student receives. On the other hand, it has a financial link. All the training cuts are sore. But if one spending cut should now be withdrawn from the government's proposals, I would be the first to cancel the cuts in vocational education and training. Mr President! Even in the reform of student support, the government has started through savings. It represents a quarter of the cut to the student grant, which would therefore be reduced to approximately 250 euros a month. Surgery means less money in euros than one month's student meals every month. The majority of the aid would be for loans in the future. I am not in favour of increasing the share of the loan, but if it does, then we must try to minimise the damage. Professor Uusitalo, who studied the reform, has wondered since his report that the student loan would work better if the borrowers were offered repayment security. In payment security, the repayment of the loan would depend, for example, on employment and annual income. Repayment security would also encourage young people who are uncertain about their future to build up their skills. Even payment security would not make the loan model unproblematic. However, if the proportion of the loan is increased contrary to our objectives, I believe that payment security would be necessary. The extent to which different groups are seeking to study and how they are studying is a decisive factor in their concern about income. If the goal is to raise the level of competence of our nation, cutting student support leads to conflicts that are difficult to patch up. Mr President! We can still choose differently. The economy can be adapted to education without interference. The options are not easy, but they are more in line with our promises to the citizens in the elections. Above all, they would be better for our future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u204	Mr President! One of the most ingenious innovations in Finland is a duvet sheet — you know, the one that is placed around a blanket or a quilt and has the small holes that are convenient to catch up to the corners of the quilt and then shake the duvet sheet neatly into place. When we have come up with something so wonderful and unique, which is why it is a miracle that all over the world, even in Finland, we buy IKEA’s duvet sheets, where these hand seats are missing, and which are therefore far more difficult to use and go to sleep much easier than our fine, well-designed duvet sheets. In my opinion, this is a very central issue, whether we consider the success of the Finnish economy or the values behind it. Finns are very good at solving a technical problem, but IKEA is a Swedish company, and Swedes, in addition to solving technical problems, are also interested in people, interpersonal communities and stories. This is the success factor on which IKEA’s worse duvet sheets sell here, not the price or the fact that they would be better in any other way. This same phenomenon is reflected in the scientific world. Over the last few months, there have been many very concerned speeches in the scientific world that sciences which are not directly applied research and which cannot justify their existence with the results of the next quarter will not receive funding or, in particular, appreciation in Finnish society. The scientific world is concerned about fundamental research, which should pave the way for the applied research without which there can be no applied research, which should detect the weak signals that the subscribers of applied research are not yet able to detect, which should be built on the tolerance of waste work and which should answer our questions of the future. The authors of the science article of the year talk about how we are currently expecting direct, rapid answers from the academic world and universities to the problems of national competitiveness, even though the logic and genetics, how the academic world works, are quite different. According to a comparison by the Academy of Finland, the level of Finnish universities compared to universities in the rest of the world is particularly weakened by the low level of basic funding in relation to competitive money and the amount of money from outside the economy in relation to research-driven money where researchers can autonomously decide what to study. The same phenomenon is still reflected in politics. In my opinion, it is an absolutely essential question for this Chamber too how on earth we will be able to develop society wisely if we do not understand how society operates, its fundamental laws. A good example of this is, for example, the argument often put forward in this Chamber today that increasing the focus on loans would not undermine the social cycle because there is more emphasis on loans in Sweden. This can only be said by a person who does not understand that the social cycle is affected by a number of social factors at the same time, and when we talk about cause-effect relationships in open societies, such simplifications simply cannot be drawn. They are somewhat similar to the fact that in June, both the sale of ice cream and the deaths of grandmothers will increase. Is the sale of ice cream due to the death of grandmas or vice versa? This is the type of mistake we would not make if there were more value in this country than in social sciences and human sciences. The economy is built on basic research — more and more in the future. The most important thing, however, is the opportunity for development and civilisation, which is a condition for human prosperity. I do not know a single example of a history in which any national economy has collapsed because people are being trained too much. There are a great many examples of the opposite.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u205	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Har regeringen not vision? Har regeringen en Bild av den framtid vi marcherar emos?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u206	Mr President! The government's cuts to education are a cause for debate. We are not trying to paint red as white, some of the cuts are very difficult and have many effects. However, there is reason to keep reason in hand and a sense of proportion. Today, a sense of proportion has disappeared. There has been talk of carnage and axe in other tastes. If we look at, for example, student-specific public funding at different levels of education, the cuts do not appear as cessations of civilization. For example, in pre-school and basic education, funding per pupil does not fall at all. In funding university education, the fall in funding per student corresponds to the level of 2010. In fact, over 20 per cent of polytechnics were cut last season but no longer. We can speak honestly about the surgeries, but not about the disaster of civilization. These numbers of worms in the economy also require cuts in education as the second largest administrative sector, unfortunately. Mr President! You try to make the savings you need as smart as you can. For example, cuts in the second-degree reform have been made to the attention of educational institutions in good time and they themselves decide how savings are to be made. Many avoid reducing educational places through administrative reforms and cooperation with other educational institutions, i.e. it is structural reforms. The way in which adjustments are implemented really matters. At the end of the last parliamentary term, we were fortunate to have lost the 'rare over small players' cut, that is, a second-degree cut, which would have been a much more disproportionate whole and its outcome very centralising. The reverse of luck is that the current government is forced to make the adjustments that were not completed in the previous period. Mr President! The public debate on education can easily give an impression not only of oversized savings but also of the fact that the government does nothing but cut. This view is wrong. Many experts are of the opinion that there is a need to reform our education system at different levels, and that is what this government is doing. The financial and guidance system for vocational education and training will be reformed. Polytechnics and apprenticeships will be renewed. In basic education, the goal is, in turn, a digital leap. It is largely about investing more in teacher training, so that every teacher knows how to use the new learning environments. Media criticism and multiple literacy must also be made an important part of the digital whole. It is not, therefore, a package of iPads for all, as described by Mrs Haraka. In the centre, we have proposed, for example, the possibility of carrying out official Swedish in upper secondary schools, so that language learning can turn up again there. It is possible that measures will be taken in this parliamentary term. We have just received an excellent decision in the spending limits debate on the transfer of students to general housing allowance. This will make the financial situation of secondary students, especially those living independently, easier. This involves simplification, accession to the same system and a balanced objective. It is also excellent that the impact of parental income on the student's student's study allowance will be eliminated and that the financial aid to be recovered will no longer be penalised by an increase of 15%, but now the last increase will be moderated to 7.5%. And let us remind you that our study aid will continue to be better than in Iceland and Sweden. Mr President! Equality in education, good regional accessibility, let alone education, does not disappear from Finland through government measures, but moves forward in many areas. According to Professor Uusitalo, the loan focus of student support does not undermine equality of opportunity. According to him, the cornerstone of equality of opportunity is the regional university network. Finland is a model country for equality of opportunity in education and will remain so after these reforms. I hope for a public debate on education, despite the challenging savings in terms of proportionality and belief in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u207	Mr President! The report by liquidator Roope Uusitalo on the reform of student support is a very thorough report, accompanied by a number of experts. It has explored options, their benefits, but also problems from a wide range of different perspectives. The aim of the reform is to ensure the possibility of full-time learning and to encourage rapid completion. We need people who know how to do it. We need people who know how to do it. It is in everyone's interest that professionals be brought to work quickly. No savings or cuts are pleasant. However, the economic situation has led to painful solutions. However, it must be said that we have good and effective early childhood education and basic education in comparison to the world. From a very young age, we make sure that everyone gets day care so that parents can go to work or study, for example. Our basic education is of high quality. Schools also have free meals. This is not the case everywhere, nor has it always been the case for us. Perhaps the most significant part of the savings on student support expenditure agreed in the Government Programme is the reduction of student funding for higher education students to the same level as for secondary students, i.e. EUR 250. According to a report by the liquidator, the average age of graduates of higher education institutions in Finland in 2010 was 28 years, and this outlook is not changing in the future either. Even when compared internationally, the age of graduation is quite high, so working life may be shorter than in the rest of the world. Mr President! Of course, as the issue of the opposition points out, it is a great thing that we have a child in a job who can become a doctor. But is it great if a child becomes an unemployed doctor after years of studying? In less than ten years, the number of unemployed people with higher education has more than doubled and the trend is not improving. Academic wisdom is needed, of course, but the child of the laborer is equally valuable as a worker. Our goal cannot be a regulated society in which academicism is an absolute value. For society and students, it would be important to have a rapid completion in the labour market. At the same time as these reforms are being carried out, we need to look at the structure of education and study programmes. Just encouraging students to graduate faster does not help, but institutions should also strive to make students as close a study programme as possible, so that students can at least theoretically complete their studies according to their own desire and life situation. We have 14 universities and 24 universities of applied sciences, which organise education leading to a higher education degree in about 50 localities. I wonder whether such a wide network is needed, or whether an example should be taken, as was mentioned here, of Pirkanmaa's good Tampere 3 project, where Tampere University of Technology, University of Technology and Tampere University of Applied Sciences would form one university in 2019. Walls are not the most important thing, but diverse qualifications — professional, professional and scientific. In other words, the university would have one educational structure combining all degree training and the right to award university and polytechnic degrees. Finally, our country is sparsely populated and it is understandable that even the smallest localities should have a wide range of study opportunities. In fact, the Government has agreed to a great deal of talk about the funding of EUR 105 million during 2017-2018, which will be directed to the development of the digital learning environments of universities in other tastes. This trend is desirable and brings a wide range of study opportunities to the sparsely populated population of the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u208	Congressman Sirén. And, as I said earlier, after Mr Sirén's speech, there will be a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u209	Mr President! These training cuts are in no way nice to defend. However, there has been a joint agreement between the government parties on these cuts, and the Ministry of Education and Culture has then contributed to these cuts. Admittedly, surgery is unpleasant, even difficult to justify. I'm sure no one will deny it. But as the Minister of Education said in his speech, the only reason for these cuts is that the money is not enough. At the moment, the debate on education policy in general and this debate on the mid-term issue focus mainly on the economic aspect, that is to say, the cuts in these appropriations. However, it should also be important to see how these cuts are carried out, what is done with the money available, what is done with it and how it will be used as rationally as possible in the interests of education. There is a great deal of work being done in education policy, in the Ministry of Education and in the Committee on Education and Culture to promote Finnish education, science and research. Efforts will be made to find solutions to achieve these savings goals through the most rational package possible. But now that the debate and the mid-term issue are focusing on these surgical decisions, a few words on the basis of today's debate. Do these cuts scratch Finnish education? Without excuse for any cuts in education, it must be said that the scale of the debate has become a little too large. For example, university budget funding will be reduced from 3.2 billion to 3.1 billion during this parliamentary term. It's bad, it's hard, it's painful surgery, but is it really beating with an axe, breaking a hand, or a massacre? The surgery is regrettable, and it is understandablely a cause for concern, but this is not yet a waste of Finnish university education. This has, to a large extent, been confirmed by the university leaders who, as a member of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, have had the opportunity to meet. The message has been, to a large extent, that we can manage these things, but we cannot afford to take any more. And that is exactly what has been done. Yesterday's debate on the spending limits decided that there would be no further cuts in education, and Mr Grahn-Laasonen has fought for this to be achieved. On the other hand, even this small increase was made for these good purposes, which the Minister mentioned. The previous government has also adapted, as was heard here. At that time, even more was cut than this government is now cutting. Of course, the cuts made by this government cannot be justified by the decisions made by the previous government, but they give a little scale for this debate. Savings or not were made, whether necessary or not, Finnish education needs to be renewed. It would have been good to have done this reform before, but unfortunately these reforms have not been achieved in recent years. For one reason or another, many of the proposals for reform made by experts, education professionals have fallen or have been buried. These reforms are now being carried out at every step and a large number of experts and professionals are involved in this reform. Yes, reforms are being made at every step. The pedagogy of early childhood education will be reformed, the basis for curricula will be revised, for example the prevention of bullying, the training of kindergarten teachers will be increased, the teacher training platform will prepare reforms for teacher training and continuing education, the day of each school student one hour of physical activity will be added, the whole digital learning will be the leading project, the overall reform of new learning environments and vocational training, apprenticeships will be developed towards the education agreement, the upper secondary school trials — and universities will also be supported and encouraged to be profiled in accordance with their own strengths. So here are examples of the reforms that are under way so that the quality of education and research that enables Finnish competence can also be maintained in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u210	I would now like to ask those Members who wish to speak in response to Mr Sirén's speech here just now or to speak before him, including the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u211	Mr President! The name of Professor Uusitalo has very often been raised as an expert in this discussion on the mid-term education issue. There are also other experts in education and training. There is also a professor of education, Kari Uusikylä, who himself has said that he has grown up in very difficult circumstances, and yet there is a degree in higher education and has progressed to professorship. Kari Uusikylä has said that the primary function of comprehensive school is to foster the mental health of children and young people — that is, balanced growth and development. And when discussing education, I think that primary school, with its small and large issues, deserves to be mentioned. While the adoption and learning of new content, new digital technologies, the needs of working life and other such things are very important, the most important thing in primary school is, in my opinion, that it is a place for equal, safe growth and development. And it is, look, now in danger.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u212	Mr President! Yes, there is a real need to spell out the wrong information that the opposition repeats about student aid. Although the student grant is decreasing, the entire student allowance and the income of the students are certainly not cut by a quarter. The total student allowance will rise from the current 900 euros to up to 1100 euros. It is particularly good for students to be covered by general housing allowance. This has also been supported by student organisations and Kela. In particular, structural change will double the housing allowance for those living alone who are less well-off. Deprived family students in different support schemes must be taken into account separately when the change is submitted to the Board of Directors next autumn. The support level will rise for many students. Our student support will continue to be better than Sweden and will be able to compare with Norway. About the student’s impoverishment
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u213	Mr President! Fortunately, this concern for education is shared, as the Committee on Education and Rural Development, led by Mr Puumala, has stated in his opinion that the savings that are now being made will weaken the human capital of the nation in the long term, on which the most competent nation in the world will be built. So this is the opinion of the Committee on Culture. I fully agree with this. In addition, these savings also threaten Finland's future economic growth. In other tastes, Pellervo’s financial research institute has found that the impact on future production potential can be significant. And if these weakenings remain permanent and are also reflected in adult competence, it can be concluded from the OECD reports that Finland’s economic growth is even slowing down. I understand that the government is also concerned about economic growth. And the government's top-of-the-line projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u214	Mr President! Mr Harakka spoke here about us moving on to a management model in the 1970s. In fact, I'm saying he's completely wrong. In fact, during the time of Minister Grahn-Laasonen, ivory management has moved to an inclusive management model. A few concrete examples of this. The development of teacher training is done together with teachers — those who know best the point of developing their own work. In addition, the university field itself has moved forward and one might say that they are the driving force behind the reforms. They have the best knowledge, and that will be the way it will be in the future. Right?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u215	Mr President! Yes, cooperation with the academic world has been a little less rosy, even though Mr Lauslahti said so. The Minister here said earlier in the Chamber that he very much appreciates the voice of the education experts and the value with which they could develop their own administration, but in reality, when more than 2000 professors were asked and 932 answered the questionnaire of Helsingin Sanomat about how the government has succeeded in higher education policy, 78 respondents felt that there could be some hope for this government in higher education policy. In contrast, 854 reported that it was either a complete failure or not very successful. I think we should be a little careful about that. Now, Mr President, I am forced to draw attention to one important issue which was heard just before five. It is not acceptable for the government to come to this Chamber for three hours to discuss the issue of the intermediate issue and to leave the Government's answer and say that more money is coming, as the Minister said, but it turns out that this money has been taken directly from the student support system. This is a cheekless, unimaginable operation you're doing. So you're taking out the student allowance?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u216	Mr President! I've been wondering what's so bad about that student loan that it's such a boogeyman. If we think about it, however, the loan period is long and the interest rate is low and there is still this credit payment. Now that we are going to a more loan-oriented study, it is, of course, the concern of the students that with which the loan is paid back, do I have a job when I graduate? And that concern is, of course, justified. And then it is the role of the government, which is one of the top projects, that employment plays and the student then gets the job and is able to pay back the student loan. And now that I'm looking back in this room, there's a bunch of young people. When I was young, the loan was taken and quite little came to pass.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u218	My esteemed Mr. Speaker! With all due respect, respect and curiosity, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, I ask you: yesterday and today it has been announced that there will be no further cuts in education. Isn't that right? However, I already looked at that information yesterday about the spending limits debate and it said that EUR 47 million will be permanently cut from the cost of self-employed education financed by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. Is this not somewhat the opposite of what you promised that education will no longer be cut off? And the second thing I want to get confirmed is this new investment of EUR 105 million. Is it really the case, as I and many others understood from what you and the finance minister, Mr Stubb, said that EUR 105 million is out of the budget? And it is absolutely necessary to correct Mr Jarva: Student allowance and student allowance are two different things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u219	Mr President! I have to ask the Minister when it comes to Youth Parliament Day. This Monday I had the honour of being a guest of the Parliament Club of the Gumerus School of Siikajoki when they are coming here next week to Helsinki. They asked me a question that was quite impossible for me to answer. They asked this question: According to the government’s savings programme, there are huge cuts in education. Some of these cuts are targeted at young people in Northern Finland. What could be done to find a secondary education place for all young people in Northern Finland in the future? As a Member of Parliament, of course, I would add: what can we do to make sure that each young person has a place of education in Finland for the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u220	Mr President! Mr Halmemenpää raised a very important question, namely the importance of this comprehensive school, one can say, as a breeding ground and from the point of view of creating the basis for education. And now, in fact, I would like the Minister to respond to the idea that now the government is in some way cutting out primary schools. It is clear that there will be reforms and some of them will certainly be very good. For example, I welcome the challenge of an hour of exercise every day. It is a challenge in the sense that it cannot of course be arranged in such a way that every day is an exercise lesson, but I think that making our children and young people move more is an important issue. But then, in these reforms, you might want to think about, for example, the educational plans — that I have a little ice in my hat. This digitality is also an issue in which we certainly need more training for our teachers. It is one thing to know how to use these technical devices than to teach them. And this is actually the question for the Minister of Education: how are we going to prepare for this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u221	Before the Minister's speech, I will give the floor to the representatives of Kontula, Parviainen, Talvitie and Kiuru. Then the Minister's speech, and let us see if it is still possible to continue briefly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u222	Mr President! Congressman Elomaa was wondering what the boogeyman was. If I'm thinking about my own college friends now that I just turned 39, the majority of them are still working short hours, and low-income short-time jobs. Some are doctors, almost all are at least Masters. Nevertheless, this society does not yet provide them with such a stable position that they can safely pay off their student loans. For these people, the student loan is actually a boogeyman, as is for those young people who come after them and see what kind of real world these adults are struggling with today. I would point out that when there is an example here that the housing allowance even doubles, this is a case in which a person pays EUR 600 rent in Helsinki, with a total of EUR 50 per month of study grant and housing allowance in his hand after the reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u223	Mr President! I will return to this lending focus, and first of all I will say that during the study years of Mr Elomaa, the labour market was very different and uncertainty was different from today's. I see risks that have already been partly realised, namely that students are afraid to take the risk of studying and go for qualifications that take a long time to study. This, on the other hand, may lead to an increase in the attractiveness of qualifications that can be obtained more quickly. Well, increasing the attractiveness of vocational education and training is a good thing, of course, but while reducing the starting points for vocational training dramatically, it can be concluded that access to vocational education and training for pupils who are not the top of their class can become significantly more difficult in the future as more people enter it. This, on the other hand, means a direct risk of increased exclusion and an increasing number of people falling outside the education network. I would ask you, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, to pay attention to this when you make these changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u224	Mr President! There is a clear need for this educational debate in the great Chamber, especially after the debate on the spending limits. In that sense, I would like to thank the opposition for this opportunity. Our country and nation have risen from many pits and lows, and with what? Among other things, that work, will, and future faith. Our children and young people, including those who build civilization, deserve to have a debate on other things than money, especially in this time. That is why it is important that we have a Minister of Education who has also dared and dared to table these injustices that have been happening with students for a very long time. These include, among other things, the abolition of the reduction in parents' incomes for secondary students aged 18 to 19 living independently in the study grant. In addition, student income limits are also linked to the index of earnings and are periodically reviewed, but not decreased.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u225	Before the Minister's speech, Mr Kiuru, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u226	Mr President! I was still left unclear, and I would like the Minister to answer that, since you are here in the Chamber, please reply literally now, whether more of the training will now be cut to the spending limits after the decisions are taken or not. This is the big question today. We've been sitting here for over three hours, with a really big crowd, but now an hour and fifteen minutes, and it's getting harder. So you told us in the spending limits debate that education is no longer being cut off, and that is a very clear message for all of us, all of us understood that. But then in 15 minutes it became clear that self-training is being cut in terms of expenses, and there has been an attempt to talk about this training cut with all the other colors of the rainbow, telling us that it is not a proper training cut. Now I should know whether or not education is being cut off, i.e. whether this voluntary education was cut off or not. Then I would like to know, Minister, when you told me that there was going to be a new contribution, a new contribution, using these words, and you told me that this was going to happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u227	Now for Mr Grahn-Laasonen. We stick to the time limits, roughly even what has been accepted as a rule of the game. — Minister Grahn-Laasonen, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u228	Mr President! Then, Mrs Kiuru, should we take more debt when you here are strongly opposed to these cuts and to the measures taken in the spending limits debate? More debt to be paid by young people, although it has been quite consistent with the SDP in recent years.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u233	Mr President! In the past, when we have talked about these savings in education, yes, over the last period more was saved than during this parliamentary term — when we want to use this cumulative method of calculation, 3.5 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u236	Mr President! It is good that this number debate is taking place here, although, as many people have called for, there should probably be more of this reflection on the future. But here we have to remember again that last season, bad decisions were taken and that is why everyone promised not to do it again. And then some of the people betrayed that promise and did not cancel any of the decisions of the last season, which we have here today, for example. Mr Jarva has just criticised us. Let alone the fact that if you look at this indebtedness trend, and when you criticized it, this year more debt will be taken from you than, for example, last year. Or, if you look at employment developments, the government's very fine target is 110,000 new jobs, and all the support is for it to be achieved, but now we are a long way behind that target. Doesn't seem to be happening either. So I don't see what we need to blame the last bunch of people for. But that is what I would have asked the Minister that, now that these structures are being reformed, is it really the case that the legal obstacles, such as cooperation between universities and universities of applied sciences, are being removed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u237	Mr President! I too would like to talk a little more about the quality of education than just this amount. This was the subject of vocational education and training, and according to the latest statistics of the National Board of Education, there is still room for improvement in this basic vocational qualification: in five years only 76 per cent will pass it. This must mean that we really need this reform of the basic vocational qualification. All in all, we have basic or specialist qualifications in some 360 of these small countries. I do think that we can certainly extend the qualifications, extend them and then also reduce the number and hopefully make them attractive. Surely this relationship between theory and practice could also be put in such a right wrist. I think it is very important that we reform vocational education and training.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u238	Reply, representative Aalto. And I would now like to ask those who wish to use the reply again to stand up and press the V button. Let me take a few words. Let us see that the various groups are given the floor, and then the Minister will reply, and then we will go on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u239	Mr President! I shall now try to ask this earlier question again. Perhaps the Minister of Education can teach the new representative how to ask for answers. I would like to ask again whether this is a fine new investment, EUR 105 million, out of the article on student support or not. And the second thing I got a half answer to was this EUR 47 million for self-employed training, the cost-remuneration rate that goes permanently away — you say it goes to re-allocations, then it goes to 47 million for one of the re-allocations. These two questions. I got half an answer. Can I have the other one and a half? — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u240	Mr President! Mr Kiuru is very active here, perhaps even very critical of the government. I would therefore like to ask Mr Kiuru: let us think about what has happened to us in the last few years, for example, in primary school. Our Pisa results have weakened, and in that respect we have a place to stop. Why is that? How has the operating environment changed? Why do our children and young people no longer learn mathematics and reading in the same way as before? In this respect, the government's key projects are a good example of targeted targeting; EUR 121 million goes to the development of a comprehensive school operating culture, digitalisation, and also to teachers' know-how. In other words, specific measures will be taken to bring children and young people back to a better level of learning.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u241	Mr President! Increasing the focus on loans is a bad proposal in the sense that taking out student loans to many young people in a low-income family at such a time of unemployment and uncertainty is a high risk. This can result in young people from deprived families not going to college, for example. We know that education is inherited and that children of economically well-functioning families study more often in universities and universities than children of families with lower incomes, for example. In my day, when I was a child of a poor family, I had taken out a student loan, but then society was different. When I graduated, he got to pick a job where he wanted to go. But today and this time are quite different, and this uncertainty can be a factor that makes young people in deprived families unwilling to take out student loans.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u242	Mr President! Many speeches have been made here, saying that this government has not cancelled the educational savings of the previous government. Of course, that is true. They have not been cancelled, but it must also be remembered that there would have been even more cuts in education in the last term of the government, but they then fell down here in Parliament because of the inability of the government to function, because the lines did not keep up. Of course, the government’s savings in education cannot be justified by the fact that the previous government also spared. That seems to me to be the wrong reason. The only reason is, as the Minister has said here, that the economic situation in Finland is so difficult that we now have to save money from everywhere. But here too, as I said earlier, if we go through university funding now to the 2010 level, it should not be a disaster for us in the university world. Even then, the situation was not quite impossible, and further efforts have been made from that level in 2010. And I'm sure we'll make an effort from this level as well. We've got a lot of top-notch projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u243	Well, now with the new company, Mr. Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u244	Thank you, Mr President. I've been waiting since 2:00 and I'm trying to be quick. In today's debate, I have been hampered by the fact that, first of all, Mr Kiuru has almost interrupted all the speeches. Right now, he had to comment. So I wish people could talk here. On the other hand, I would also like to see content in this debate. Mrs Puumala made a very good speech here that we have not discussed studies, students and the content of studies. We've been playing ball since the '90s, looking for Facebook and God knows where, who said what he said and who did. Which means it's not going anywhere. Then there is the fact that there is no work in many speeches. So what happened yesterday at the government press conference? One per cent more employment brings 600 million savings, and now we have 370 million on the table yesterday. This is where the Greens' representative, Mr Yanar, pointed out this measure. This is precisely the work that is being invested in, because what good is it, even if we have what money in education if we do not have jobs? So now it's students' work and people's work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u245	Mr President! There has been a lot of discussion here today about these extensive student allowance cuts, but a little less attention has been paid to this ten-month limit on the duration of the student allowance. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how this drastic reduction in the number of months of support will affect people's opportunities for retraining and change in the sector, because, in my interpretation, this will weaken them when there is less chance of studying even if there is another degree in higher education when the months of support are over. How does this affect lifelong learning, which is, however, a social issue? I would like to thank the government for removing the income analysis of parents of secondary students. That is a very good and important issue. I would also like to thank you for transferring students to the general housing allowance. However, there are threats to this, mainly from the point of view of family students, and I would like to ask the government whether the government will involve student organisations in preparing this transfer to the general housing allowance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u246	President! I must say that at least we heard a lot of people, and this has also happened in the ministry when we were considering this study aid solution. I believe that this is very clear in the solution now presented, and I believe that this will also be the case with regard to this housing allowance. However, I would like to return to this very important point raised by Mrs Halmemenpää. I believe that on this issue too, when it comes to the fact that exclusion has increased in our society, teachers have a very important role to play. We in the Committee on Education have heard experts on the reform of teacher training, and this aspect has been raised. Teachers need more tools to meet different pupils, pupils from different backgrounds and different new problems. I believe that this is the kind of thing that needs to be done in the context of the reform of teacher training.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u247	In this debate, I will give the following answers: Mr Kiuru, Mr Kivelä, Mr Jarva and Mr Halmemenpää. Then the Minister will have two minutes to reply, and then we will move on to the list and return to the debate after a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u248	Mr President! Abraham Lincoln has sometimes quite well stated that all people can be fooled for a while, some people can be fooled all the time, but not all people can be fooled all the time. And I have to say that we still do not know whether this government has cut out more of education or not now in the spending limits debate, and I hope, Minister, that with a yes or no answer, you will tell us once again when you have two minutes, whether more was cut in the spending limits line. We believe that this self-training is education and is a training cut, and you have told us here that it would not be a training cut, but if expenses were cut out from self-training, then the training was cut. Now we need to know if they cut off their own training. In addition, we would like to know that when
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u249	Mr President! Certainly these cuts in education are not pleasant things, but then in many places the organisers of education have been very realistic: here we go and the crying does not help the market. Indeed, many training providers have, as it were, been forced to go into the matter, have considered the reasons and have concluded that more efficient and reorganized activities can, for example, have an impact on suspensions. It is not self-evident that there are always a certain number of suspensions. The providers of education improve cooperation and organise smart specialisation. It is now precisely in the sphere of secondary vocational education and training providers that it is hoped, Minister Grahn-Laasonen, that at the Ministry of Education:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u250	Mr President! In the past, there was talk of this that when students move to the general housing allowance, such a situation could arise that only EUR 50 would remain after the rent payment. This obviously refers to the fact that the student would do nothing other than raise the student's allowance and this housing allowance would receive — not take out a student loan, not working, not doing anything else. Hardly this kind of situation is very typical for many people. Then there is the employment situation. This is the central concern of young people here. Many say that you could work alongside your studies but there are no jobs or that you are afraid to take out a loan when you are not employed. This is the most important task for us, and this is where the government is working. Next week we will hear about this employment package and the entrepreneurship package. It is there that there will be good means for young people to be able to find employment both during their studies and as soon as they graduate. We must also promote this on the education and training front, in particular in vocational education and training, to learn jobs and to work closely with employers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u251	Mr President! In order to prevent exclusion raised by Mr Multala, early childhood education and comprehensive school are of paramount importance. It has been explained that, based on behavioral disorders of 4 years of age, there are predictable paths to exclusion as young and adult. It therefore does not quite matter how we view the quality of early childhood education and basic education. Here in the hall it was said earlier that children learn best when they are enthusiastic. Yes, the key tasks of learning and teaching are also influenced by the kind of work peace that exists in schools, both for students and teachers. Representative The salmon asked a few questions about whether there are now any specific cuts in basic education. The weakening of primary school life will result from the fact that among the children and young people who are most affected and most affected by the increase in group sizes, the limitation of the right to early childhood education, the increase in childcare fees, and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u252	I am going to have to cut the speaker off according to the rules of the game when the minute has passed. — Minister Grahn-Laasonen, 2 minutes on site.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u253	Mr President! Once again, thank you for many constructive, good, forward-looking speeches. Mr Kiuru's questions have now been answered at least four times, probably more often, so let us be clear about that. But I would like to speak specifically about those children and young people who need special support. It was well raised in Mrs Halmemenpää's speech. Thanks to a high level of research, we have more and more information about both learning and how to deal more early with emerging problems such as learning or behavioral disorders, different mental disorders or problems at home that may exist in families and unfortunately exist. How could these paths of exclusion be tackled and cut off at an early stage? The government is running a few key projects aimed at meeting these challenges. This is not an easy task and, of course, it requires a great deal of professional expertise. The second is the programme of changes in child and family policy aimed at early support and intervention and closer cooperation between different professions and sectors. The second point, of course, from my own sector, is the development of our youth guarantee in the direction of the Community guarantee, which has very similar objectives, namely to target the sectors and to work better together. We still have a great deal of work to do in this parliamentary term. In addition, early childhood education has also been mentioned. The development of pedagogy is very important in order to address the problems in time. For example, bullying at school is one whose first phenomena begin to manifest themselves in early childhood education. If, at that point, we could intervene more effectively, it may be that it could have huge effects then, later, also in the prevention of bullying. But these are important issues, and that is why the government also invests 20 million in equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u255	And now we move on to the list of speakers. — Mr Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u256	Mr President! For many reasons today's debate has been very important, and I am sure it will tell us again how important education is to Finland. It has been the backbone of our success, and I hope it will be the backbone in the future. Then it also tells us that there is a lot of passion in this debate about these educational cuts, and that it is quite understandable, firstly because they partially degrade our knowledge base — according to various studies, our skills are falling — and also because there have rarely been such questions when elections have taken place, because all parties have agreed on something as if there were no cuts in education. And when, after the elections, there is a situation where the government is still cutting, it is quite understandable that it causes a lot of irritation and discontent, and that is something we will probably be going through in this Chamber many times this season. Then there is also the fact that, as many people have said in this debate, it might have been important to talk about this future of education and its development rather than these euros. It is quite true that we also need to look ahead and then find the solutions to how, however, we are still developing education and, by doing so, we will be able to raise our skills and also better meet the challenge that the changing world presents to us. But in this development it is always good to remember that hardly anyone is against it. There are a lot of challenges in these educational issues without taking one euro out of it. We all know that structural development in both secondary and tertiary levels is challenging. There are differences between regions, there are passions between regions. A debate was already held last season on how, despite the rationalisation of the network of offices in higher education, the way in which cooperation between universities and universities of applied sciences will be increased. These are all already challenging questions without taking money out of it. Here I would have liked the Minister to have gone through even more of the structural development guidelines and what is now being done, for example, in higher education. How are legislative barriers removed in order to allow universities and universities of applied sciences to cooperate more closely? In what way do we allow these new higher education consortia to be created in Tampere, Lappeenranta and Rovaniemi, and would it be appropriate to consider, in this time too, that we should abandon this dual model of universities, which, at least in part, has caused us to have overlaps and perhaps over-exploited resources? Then again, when we go to the second stage, there too, this reform is in order, but it is usually difficult to reform in such a way that we first take the money and then make some kind of reform. And what this place has led to, for example, at the second level of the profession is that, for example, local education has been reduced. So we have less education for our young people in vocational education. In this time, where we in particular need very strong vocational training and need to invest in it, the organisers of education have had to make these unfortunate savings by reducing local education already. And then, finally, I thought I'd get involved in this student support. Many good decisions in the spending limits debate were made by the government in relation to this student allowance for secondary students — the income of parents does not affect it for those who live independently, this moderation in the collection of repayments, and then also the transfer of students to general housing allowance — but even these issues do not remove the fact that university students have a reduction of EUR 86 per month. No other group of the population is undergoing surgery of this magnitude. Nothing, and I think it's pretty cheekless in this time. As far as this loan is concerned, it would certainly be worth considering, in this situation, where the use of the loan is now being imposed on students — a loan which, in itself, is quite well-desired and so-called cheap money — that, as Mrs Parviainen, as I recall, raised and also the liquidator, Mrs Uusitalo, would prefer to move from this credit to securing its repayment, i.e. repayment only when a certain level of income has been achieved after employment, and thereby giving particular consideration to those who come out of the weakest position, security and the possibility of taking up and using this student loan. And it would be quite appropriate to clarify this now that the government is moving forward with this reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u257	Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Before I speak in person, I would like to say that I have the utmost respect for the fact that Mr Grahn-Laasonen, the Minister of Education, was very happy with us here in the box for a very long time, but I would respect him even more if he answered the questions put directly to him. I myself try to ask the same question many times, over and over again, and I do not get an answer for a crumb from the Minister. But for the speech itself. The advantage of this country has not been a favourable climate, not a low cost or low labour costs. The advantage of this country has been the level of education and the high level of knowledge, the fact that everyone’s abilities are made available to the best possible extent, the fact that every child, young person, has the opportunity to train as far as they want. The Sipilä government has now decided to take away one of its key assets from this country. Instead of investing in product development and new innovations, the Prime Minister praises how scarcity increases creativity. What kind of creativity can be expected of researchers and developers whose motivation and ability are taken from under the feet like a carpet? Mr President! I can tell the government what will help us move on from this economic situation. It's an education. Its cuts are also unreasonable, stupid and shortsighted in the eyes of the business community. Let me give you a few examples: Matti Alahuhta, president of the Confederation of Finnish Industries, said in Yle's First Saam in January regarding the cuts in education: "I would not have liked to have seen such significant cuts." Vesa Vipriälä, Managing Director of the Finnish Institute of Economic Affairs, wrote about training cuts last May: "These major cuts endanger the strengthening of the knowledge base and the production of sufficient scientific information. The high level of the education and research system is a necessary condition for innovation and good productivity development, and Finland's own history is a good indication of the importance of these priorities and investments. This strength factor should not be lost." The third point is the ex-Minister of Finance, Jan Vapaavuori. He criticized the cuts in education last month by saying: "It's easy to say that you have to save from everything, but it's also a message that you haven't been able or dared to prioritize." Mr President! I greatly marvel at the Government’s ferocious zeal to wreck one of the cornerstones of our success. Even Sipilä’s government’s credit pack business does not flinch oversized cuts in education. At this rate, it is pointless for Finland to dream of new economic and international success stories. Why is the government stubbornly sticking to one of its most stupid decisions, even though it has proved to have been able to reverse them before? Each of us in this Chamber wants more employment. This was mentioned earlier by Mr Meri, among others. However, after government cuts in education, it will require at least twice as much work. Education cuts are the back of the winter for emerging economic growth when retraining, continuing education and high skills lose ground in Finnish society. Mr President! At the end of the day: What we need is a long-term science and education policy, rather than a trifling trick. We don't have to cut our own branch. The importance of education and training is vital to our country, economy and business. I very much hope that the government will understand that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u258	Mr President! Perhaps the worst example of the short-sightedness of the Finnish right-wing government’s cutting line is massive cuts in education. During this term of government, more than EUR 1 billion will be cut from education every year. From early childhood education to adult education, the entire education and training sector is now in the government's guillotine. The future of Finnish top-level research is jeopardised by huge negotiations at universities. This is a direct consequence of the government's policy of despoiling. Everyone in this Chamber knows that Finland has risen relatively quickly from a poor, agricultural-dominated society to the way we now feel about it. One of the main reasons behind this rapid development has been the desire to have a broad, equal access to education for all children regardless of their parent status. Now that you look at the government's long list of cuts in education, you cannot help but wonder why this decades of work to promote equality is being wasted in the name of savings. I refuse to hear any further explanations about the need to make savings. That is simply not true. For example, if the government were to take serious action to eradicate tax evasion, there would be no need to make cuts that undermine equality. The result of these cuts will be nothing more than a disaster. With its cuts, the government shows that it has finally resigned from the objective of equality. Mr President! Raising inequality never brings savings. On the contrary, throwing away different talents is very expensive. I am particularly shocked by the number of cuts in vocational education and training. I was glad that Mr Kivelä, a representative of the Finns Party, defends vocational education. This is exactly where we are with him. Unfortunately, it is not enough just to talk, but rather to show and act, and I hope that in your own party in the government you will be able to contribute to the message you made here about the toilet in your excellent speech. Thank you for that, but it's not enough to talk. One of my concerns, that is to say the biggest one, is that the cuts in education are linked to the long-term impact on the equality of our education. So does everyone have the opportunity to study as far as they want and the field they want? How will special support be provided for children and young people in need of learning in the midst of surgery? There are already worrying signs that even in primary schools there are growing differences between the learning outcomes of different schools. Education is also inherited already in Finland. The educational choices of young people are influenced, for example, by the socio-economic status of parents and the educational background of parents. Thus, the home background of young people already affects the transition from comprehensive school to upper secondary school or vocational education. University students study significantly more academically educated children than, for example, children with vocational education. The family’s wealth is also linked to young people’s choices. Much more parents of upper secondary school students belong to higher income categories than parents of vocational students. Government cuts in education only deepen this inequality. The question is: does the government have any interest in the impact on equality of study aid by making it more loan-oriented? We all know that the threshold to take out big loans is higher for children of low-income parents than for those from the wealthiest districts. It is quite illogical that a loan-fearing government wants to force students to take out loans so that they can buy food at the store and pay their rent. Is there any other group of people in this society who are supposed to borrow to cover their basic income? It would make much more sense to develop basic income. It would reduce bureaucracy and guarantee equal access to education. A sufficient basic income would therefore be one way of promoting equality in education and training. Mr President! Finland would never have risen quickly from an agricultural-intensive, poor rule society as we now know it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u259	Mr President! This debate on civil society policy today has not been very civilised all the time, quite the contrary. It is a pity that strong expressions have been used and given to understand the government's will to drive down the educational and civilised society and the ultimate motive for some form of educational hatred. But, of course, there have been extremely constructive speeches here from both the government and the opposition, which recognise the fact that we want to maintain a civilised society, an educational society, and we want to ensure that students are able to study in the future. Such a common good, detective line has, of course, been heard in certain speeches in the midst of a wide range of chin parties. In some places, too, this debate has been a sort of numerology-related auction, where some numbers have been presented and explained what is behind them, which government has cut more of its targets, the governments of the last parliamentary term or the present one. Mr. Speaker! I have received thanks from several members of the opposition in their speeches for my own group speech, and it is no wonder that it was a good speech, because it was written by me from the beginning to the end, it was not a wonderful adviser to do it. But this jubilization of the opposition may also be a little excessive. That there is no other foot in the opposition, on the contrary. The representatives of the responsible government recognise the fact that not everything is in the best possible way and that constructive criticism must also be made. But the big line is that we must do what is possible in this situation while maintaining the ethic of justice. Mr President! Some numeral facts when it is said that civilised society is being driven down. In 2001, the university budget was 1.069 billion, at a peak of 1.9 billion in 2015, i.e. almost doubling the university budget in 15 years. So it peaked at 1.9 billion last year. And if the government plans to do so, at the end of the parliamentary term the university budget would be 1.8 billion, i.e. moving at a very high level, but more than 700 million higher than at the beginning of the millennium. We can ask the opposition representatives what other administrative sectors have had as high an increase in budgets as the university budget in this millennium. It is a great thing that this has been the case. Of course, the cuts are regrettable, but there is also something structurally that can be criticised. In January, I met a popular actor, an actor who told me that he had studied at theatre school in the '70s, and he told me that the number of students then and now is about the same. Of course, today we have a doctoral degree in art and a continuing training centre, but at that time there were administrative staff of 7 or 8 people, now about 100. That there is something like this, and when you consider that such publicists, typists, have left, there are too many designers and developers. But, Mr President, there must be a common civilised spirit between the government and the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u260	Mr President! The promise of education turned into an educational fraud. Training is being cut enormously, even though the cuts in the previous period were far too much. Now you also have to cut the student allowance, unlike last season. By 2019 70 million will be saved from student aid and in the long term 122 million will be saved, or about a quarter of the student aid. No other group of people will be less cut out of its basic benefit. The Government intends to calculate the level of study grant to EUR 250 from the current EUR 336. The duration of the study grant per degree is reduced by 2 months and the maximum amount of support for higher education studies is limited to 54 months, i.e. 10 months of support. Students are already the lowest-income population groups in Finland. Statistics Finland's income distribution statistics show that young adults' low incomes are deeper and more common than other age groups and have grown most. The real value of student student student support has also developed in a negative direction since the transition to the current student support system in 1992. Since the introduction of the system, a single level increase has been made to the student support and the support was not indexed until 2014 until Sipilä's Board of Directors abolished the index link in autumn 2015. The real value of student aid is now lower than it was in 1992 when the system was set up. The rent ceiling for student housing allowance has last been increased 10 years ago, although the annual increase in rents has been around 3 per cent. Students already belong to the lowest income group, and the level of student support is insufficient, and one quarter of this level will be cut. They want to force the students into debt — this is a tough choice of values for the government. The policy to reduce the duration of the student allowance is problematic. The mental health problems of students have been on the rise in recent years. Continued additional tightening of the terms of the student support, especially in a situation where support is still being cut, increases the stress and pressures of students. It is nothing more than bullying a group of people who already have to fight with income problems on a daily basis. Students do not stretch because of the plentiful nature of student support, but because of work, lack of guidance, rigid study paths, poor employment prospects and social and health problems. There are also good elements in the Government's spending limits policy yesterday regarding student support, and I would like to thank you for the decision to transfer students to the general housing allowance. It facilitates the situation of students living in the capital region in particular. However, I hope that the reform will be prepared together with student organisations so that the reform does not unduly undermine the position of some groups of students. In addition, I warmly thank the government's line to eliminate the impact of parental income on secondary students' student study aid. This is a very good thing and a long-term requirement of the student movement. It is also a good decision to moderate the interest rate on financial aid to be recovered, and thank you for those decisions. Mr President! Students must be entitled to adequate income. The purpose of student support is to ensure that students have the opportunity to live long enough for the duration of their studies and thus to focus on studies in full-time. Education is certainly an investment that makes sense to the individual, but so is it from the point of view of society. Since it is quite reasonable for the overall benefit of society that people should seek education, it also makes sense for us to have a system that enables and encourages this. Now that one quarter of student aid is being cut, it is much more economically profitable for the individual to be unemployed in the shorter term than studying, and this is a bad situation. The student loan is currently not popular among students for understandable reasons, as even high education no longer guarantees a secure job and therefore the ability to repay the loan. Borrowing also discriminates between fields of study. It is a very different matter to pay back tens of thousands of euros if you graduate as a doctor than if you graduate as a kindergarten teacher or a librarian. Mr President! In Finland, education is already more inherited than in many other Nordic countries. The transition to the student support model, where students are expected to finance an increasing proportion of their income in the form of a loan itself, threatens to strengthen this development in the past. If you move on to a loan-oriented model, it is more likely that many people with low incomes will:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u261	Mr President! If we look at the history of Finland, then as a nation we have risen from fresh poverty and inequality over the past 100 years with solutions that have, above all, strengthened equal opportunities for people to survive in their lives. We were the first to provide for equal, universal and equal voting rights. Since then, especially after the Second World War, when the welfare state has started to build, we have been very determined to help foster children's equal health and education. If you look at our education system, from the maternity clinic to very extensive early childhood education, day care and comprehensive school, Finland’s well-being is based on the fact that all young people, regardless of their family background, have equal opportunities to survive. There is a strong upper secondary school and vocational education on top of it, which has increasingly found its place in the fact that young people also find employment after education. Then we have a system of higher education, which is very extensive, including from the point of view of the level of education, where the reform of polytechnics is a great success story of the 1990s. Polytechnics and universities together are regional locomotives, but also the most important builders of economic growth and know-how in terms of research and product development. And then, widely understood, Finnish civilization leans on this whole entity. It has been somewhat sad to follow the political debate that suggests that the education system would be inefficient. For example, the role of many people who are formally involved in administrative tasks in higher education institutions and who are classified as part of the administration or support services is crucial to fostering this culture and a high level of education. If politics starts to cut and then cuts in such a way that it is seen that such support services are useless, then it will lead to a cut in the fairly important cultural and cultural heritage. My view is that the difficult issues facing the National Library have been resolved, but it is only one example of how difficult it is to see the higher education sector as ineffective in the light of the figures, even though there are important librarians behind the figures. Even The National Museum of Natural History is also classified as a general rule into the administration, but it is an institution that produces the most valuable information in Finland about the whole range of our natural species and collects it in its collections. It is therefore up to the responsible government, considering the place of education and education in this country, to keep to the dream that every young person has equal opportunities for education and that cultural and cultural heritage is more widely nurtured and that research and scientific knowledge are on top of it. Now it seems that the government negotiations have achieved such tough cutting targets and are being driven on such a fast schedule that the peace of work, which was particularly sought in this intermediate issue, in the higher education institutions for this term of government, is seriously shaken by the development of basic research and knowledge. It is very difficult to defend the freedom of science under conditions in which research groups find it difficult to continue their activities when people are laid off, or it may be difficult even to obtain new project funding when research teams are put together and not even to apply for funding. These messages create such a lack of perspective, and the danger is that although the government may even have a genuine desire to do things more effectively with smaller resources, people in higher education institutions will feel unseemly, hopeless, and then seek out countries and research conditions with sufficient resources and access to good research teams. Therefore, we would at least need a long-term approach to funding our higher education system, and I would therefore like to say that the drastic cuts that are being made to higher education will not help at all, because the extra money we have received now, the EUR 100 million, will in practice only go to project funding, that is, it will not make it easier for these research groups under pressure from redundancies and job reduction. Finally, on study aid and the status of students, I would also like to say that the students are the population group in this country, which is the largest living below the poverty line. For young people, income has already fallen most from all population groups as a result of the recession. It violates this dream of equal education if student money is now cut by up to a quarter. These are things that Finland cannot afford because they lead to education
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u262	Värderade Talman! So much has been said here that I think I will skip half of this, also save time. At times, however, it is good to stop and wonder why various savings-oriented reforms in Finland are apparently constantly needed. The reason is in its simplicity that exports do not pull. I sincerely hope that all of us here, at least, understand the importance and potential of high industrial added value, particularly based on knowledge, and of exports to growing markets, in building the welfare of our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u263	Mr President! The situation in Finland's economy is very serious. In the past, the objectives of balancing the economy and implementing structural reforms fell one after another. Government debt has grown rapidly, exports do not pull, and Finland’s economic outlook is the weakest in the euro area. If debt cannot be broken and eventually stopped, this will eventually lead to the loss of our economic decision-making power. In this situation, the burden of social security also needs to be reduced, but it should be done in a way that will be as detrimental to our society as possible. Mr President! It is said that studying is an investment in the future, but can the raising of student loans, for example, be regarded as a very risk-free investment for students in the current employment situation. In the past, even theoretically, it has been possible to think that the student's allowance and the student's housing allowance are just enough to live. Now, with the proposed student grant, although the original plan is slightly more moderate, we are forcing an increasing proportion of students to take out student loans. While some of them have enough jobs and time to work, income limits ensure that students cannot be fully available to the labour market. The students are really struggling financially, and there is no point in embellishing this fact. Mr President! Society should treat students equally in relation to the rest of the population. They need to be offered a chance to live at least on some level of normal life. A student seeking part-time employment should be sought to guarantee the same level of support as an unemployed job seeker. The decision taken in the budget debate to transfer both secondary and higher-level students to the general housing allowance is certainly a welcome solution as housing costs continue to rise. Although the income thresholds were not increased, at least the reasonable recovery resulting from them is something. Thank you, too, for removing the impact of parents' income from independent secondary students aged 18 to 19. Mr President! However, the student loan must not be the only answer to ensure the student's livelihood. However, the loan must always be repaid and it cannot be appropriate to raise a debt burden of up to EUR 15000 to EUR 30000 on the back of the student. Ways must be found to enable the work to be received. And the idea of facilitating the transition to work, as recorded in the Government Programme, with a bachelor's degree, would also be worth considering. Mr President! Students should at least be on the same page as immigrants. The impact of the difference between the level of study aid and the much more generous integration allowance slows down the integration of, for example, young immigrant women and their vocational training — that is, the group with the highest level of unemployment in the OECD countries in Finland. It is worth seriously considering whether the situation between the various subsidies is fair and whether the current support jungle motivates success and success, whether it is a Finnish person or a person with an immigrant background.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u264	Mr President! We live in difficult and conflicting times. We all know that the economy of the nation must be put in order, but there are very different ideas about how it is done and at whose expense. Uncertainty about the future also causes fear and despair in our young people. Our country's success strategy has long followed the line that Finland is a well-being society based on research, education and knowledge. This basis is now being violated, and one concrete example is the government's savings in education, science and research. They're too big. During the whole parliamentary term, the total saving will amount to up to EUR 3 billion. Education and research are cut proportionally more than elsewhere. In Finland, investments in education have been highest in nearly 13 per cent of total government expenditure. This was the case between 1990 and 2003. The share of the recession in the 1990s was at its lowest at 11.2%, but we are now below the 11% threshold, and at the end of the Government's term the share of education expenditure in public expenditure can be expected to be around 10.5%. Mr President! Almost all Finnish and also international experts have strongly criticised these savings in education, science, research and development and innovation, even considering them dangerous for Finland’s future. Even the government’s good top projects do not change this reality. In addition to all this, the government is proposing to reduce the income of students. A total cut of EUR 122 million has been planned for student support. The student allowance will be reduced by 28 per cent, which means that the monthly part of the study grant will be cut by approximately EUR 80. Many students have said that money is at least two weeks’ food money. Students are already living on very small incomes and even below the poverty line. Many student organisations have signalled that weakening students' income already threatens the mental health of many students. If income decreases further, many students will have to go to work if they do not want to take out student loans. In addition to studying, working often extends study periods, and this is not good at all from the perspective of extending working careers. Mr President! The future of Finland lies in children and young people. As a society, we cannot afford to prevent or make it excessively difficult for young people to study. The key to Finland’s success is that everyone has the opportunity to study regardless of the family’s financial situation. Before the elections and even after the elections, many current ministers, including the Minister for Education, spoke of the fact that there is no cuts in education. It has been cut, and now it is also cut from equal opportunities for study. It is very difficult to understand how this will help Finland to succeed in a global competition. The position of students is deteriorating in many ways at the same time. The quality and opportunities of education are deteriorating, and the level of income is falling. Future faith is under test, and at the same time, when working life seems even more uncertain, the situation of students is becoming even more difficult. This is fast enough to get you into a bad cycle. The Government's decision on the spending limits did not bring any comfort to the students, although I admit that the government did mention a few good improvements yesterday. But you can't bake a bun out of a crumb. It's easy to return a small sum of massive surgeries. However, it is pointless to promote it as an educational incentive. Finally, Mr President, I am particularly concerned about the increasing number of groups in day care and primary schools, because the most effective early intervention and problem prevention are sufficiently small groups. Raising group sizes is one of the worst decisions this government has taken, as it has a negative impact on both the psychosocial and cognitive development of children. These damage will later be very difficult and also costly to repair.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u265	Mr President! Regardless of the method of calculation, the training cuts made by this government are very large. In my view, the weakening of education, early childhood education, research and the status of students is a matter of conscious value choice. You don't have to do training cuts. There are many ways to balance central government finances. None of the alternatives put forward by the opposition, including Mr Olli-Son Parviainen's careful examination, has been acceptable to the government. It is by investing in education that the economy can be boosted, and this is not the truth invented by a single Member of Parliament, but the vision of a number of experts and important business players. The government scares the people with government indebtedness but does not see the big problem of young students being forced to live up to their debts in the future. Households' indebtedness rate is already 125 per cent. At the same time, however, the government has been prepared to pour more than EUR 200 million into the Talvivaara mine, for example, where Terrafame's money will be exhausted by mid-June. Mr President! It is in the interests of all of us that we invest in education and that every Finn has the opportunity to study as far as the common people are concerned. For young people from poor families, borrowing is behind a greater threshold than for the well-off. In 70 years, a child of academically educated parents was 19.1 times more likely to end up in a higher education institution than a child of a non-academic family. In 90 that figure was 10.8, in 2011 only 6.8. Between these last chapters, a balanced student financial support system was introduced for all. Is this a good development that the government now wants to wreck? We are all willing to discuss the development of education. Massive training cuts, however, are not about reform leading to good development: In early childhood education group sizes are raised. The right to day care is restricted. Day care fees will be increased. And preschool education is changed into a club form, leaving pedagogical goals easy to second. In comprehensive schools, too, group sizes are increased and state grants for quality improvement are cut. The fees for the morning and afternoon activities of small schoolchildren will be increased, when an increasing number of small first and second graders come to spend their mornings and afternoons alone at home because of the family’s tight financial situation. Mr President! A large cut of EUR 190 million will be allocated to vocational education and training. At the same time, a reform of vocational education and training will be carried out, the consequences of which are not yet known. Many entrepreneurs have already criticised the fall in the level of vocational education and training due to the lack of local teaching hours so severely that they do not have skilled factors in working life but have to be trained by employers themselves on the basis of a degree already completed. It is also likely that cuts will lead to a reduction in the places where you start your studies in the profession. For example, in Northern Ostrobothnia, the most youth-dominated region of Finland, this trend is catastrophic for young people and regional economies. If the network is still being reduced, more and more 15-year-olds will have to move out of the home after comprehensive school, far too early. There will be a drastic cut in the budget of the higher education institutions. The government is cutting tens of millions of euros from Tekes and the Academy of Finland. These hundreds of millions of cuts may not even be enough for the government. The freezing of polytechnics and university indices will take an additional EUR 175 million from higher education. Mr President! Finally, it seems that the government does not see education as a asset for the future of Finland in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u266	Mr President! From the point of view of regional development, the government's cuts in education are going in the wrong direction. Universities and universities of applied sciences play an important role in the industrial structure of different regions and in getting skilled labour into the labour market. A comprehensive network of higher education institutions across the country best guarantees the competitiveness of regional enterprises and the survival of young people in the regions. Once again, there is a contradiction between what the government has said and what it has done. The Government talks about the importance of new innovations but cuts the basic funding of universities of applied sciences by about EUR 30 million per year. This has a major impact on the research, development and innovation activities of universities of applied sciences. The universities of applied sciences cooperate extensively with the local employment and business life. In cooperation with the public sector and companies, universities of applied sciences produce concrete new services, products and innovations. I wonder how the government intends to implement its own leading projects while cutting innovation development so drastically. Government cuts have a huge impact on the teaching and research of universities. The universities in our country have had huge negotiations in recent years. There have been particularly many of them during the academic year 2015-2016, when almost 10 universities have attended or are in the process of being consulted. As a result of these negotiations, a decision has already been taken to reduce more than 1550 people. As teaching staff declines, mass lectures increase and local education decreases. The development of teaching methods stops, and we are going backwards into old methods. Surely we can all conclude that a reduction in practical training can even be dangerous if, for example, medical studies are involved. In many other areas, such as teacher training, practical practical teaching is also very important. We know that in various international comparisons our universities have done very well. This positive development can only continue if we invest in research, education and equal access to education. A competitive leap is impossible when Finnish higher education institutions fall in international comparison due to government cuts in the coming years. Madam President! Government cuts in education endanger educational equality in many ways. I have raised a regional perspective, but another important aspect is to guarantee equal opportunities for all to study regardless of the background. Making student support more loan-oriented will exacerbate the inheritance of education, which is already a problem. Everyone must have the opportunity to study what they want, as far as they want, regardless of the size of the parent’s purse. Government cuts also make life-long learning more difficult, which is all the more important when many people still change the sector well over the middle age. Extending working careers becomes a completely impossible goal when learning in adults is made more difficult. Of course, equal study opportunities are also in the interests of society as a whole, because that is the only way to make available all the different talents. Finally, I very much respect the fact that the Minister is able to follow this debate on the interim issue, that is very good, that there have been almost 150 speeches here, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u267	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! This mid-term issue by the opposition groups today in relation to education, the savings in education and study aid and the related savings is a very sad, difficult and painful matter for me — as are, of course, all the other austerity decisions that will have to be taken in this economic situation and which will now come about. I myself have been a former student politician and have worked a lot on student lobbying issues and I have had a lot of time to think about this. I have received a great deal of contact from young people, students, and also from teachers on this subject, and I therefore consider it necessary to reflect a little more on this situation in Finland at the moment in terms of education and support for students. Finland as a nation, Finland’s public finances and also Finland’s private finances have been put in an unclassical state. All the parliamentary parties have been causing this condition in the past 10 to 15 years, but especially in 2013 to 2015 the strengthening of the Finnish economy and the necessary renovation efforts were not completed by the group in which the Swedish People's Party, the SDP and the Greens were involved. Waited and waited and sank even deeper. Now, this situation is being improved in more sectors and these painful, difficult cutting decisions are being taken and people's taxes and their contributions to various services are being increased. Madam Speaker! To open up the future of the education system a little bit and the thoughts I have about it: If we go to the second stage, particularly vocational education and training, I think it is very important that vocational education and training continues to strengthen links with working life, business life, businesses and practical jobs. Small and medium-sized enterprises in particular have received a lot of feedback on the fact that a truly genuine training agreement, even in the Government Programme, a more flexible way to implement an apprenticeship, must be achieved and there must be flexible learning pathways there at second level. Moreover, I personally do not believe that we should have really rigid and high-level differences between upper secondary school education and vocational education in this digitalising and lower-border world. There must be paths to cross these two pipes. There must be opportunities to train cooks who understand foreign cultures. It must be possible to train metal men who can speak more language than bull. President! Something about college politics. Although higher education is a source of higher education, I still hope that there will also be interaction with business and other societies. Sometimes it feels like the best thing for some researchers is to be cut off from other activities under a glass dome, and that cannot be the goal. I would like all higher education degrees to have a section on supervisory and human management, and also the basic principles of basic financial management, to be able to budget things, to count euros in advance and also to count euros a little afterwards, to read profit calculations and to read balance sheets. In the higher education sector, too, the dual model, this division of labour between universities of applied sciences and the university of applied sciences, must be considered without prejudice. Study support, President, briefly. I agree with Mr Kimmo Kivelä, who is a strong member of the Finnish group, that the reform of the student allowance should be considered. It should be considered whether, however, student aid could be phased out so that, at an early stage when work experience is not yet available, more student support could be obtained and, at the end of the period, it would be reduced or there would be other flexibility depending on the circumstances of life. Now, if you go to loan-oriented support, I would like to see, for example, that if you have been foolish in your life, you will not be prevented from receiving support because you have these problems and therefore you will not receive a student loan. President! There's something positive coming up for the students, and I want to go over it again. The transition to general housing support is precisely strengthening the position of the lowest-income students. Among other things, the Union of High School Students has commended the fact that parents’ incomes no longer affect secondary students. Furthermore, I think it is important that the percentage increase in the recovery of student aid should come closer to the normal interest rate of delay.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u268	Mr President! Now that Mr Kurvinen has made a very good speech, he will be happy to praise it and I would like to comment on one point he raised. It concerned his views on this cooperation between upper secondary school and vocational education and training, its development. You used the example of how it is good for a cook to know foreign languages, foreign cultures. Of course, this can be extended to the engineers of today, who work thousands of jobs abroad. For them, for example, language skills are also important, including understanding cultures. The fact is, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, that the assembly is getting pimples unnecessarily when it comes to cooperation between upper secondary school and vocational education. It is a modern culture, and I hope that you will also understand and see this issue, which I think Mr Kurvinen has very well raised in his speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u269	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u270	Madam President! Finland has long been able to boast of high levels of education among the population and equal access for citizens to education. In early childhood education, primary school, secondary education and free-of-charge higher education, the main objective has been that everyone has access to education and that income is not an obstacle to civilization. Quality education has ensured that even as a small country, Finland has been successful in international comparisons measuring both the level of education, competence and competitiveness. The government is now cutting up education by up to EUR 1 billion per year during the government's term of office. The surgery focuses on the entire study path from early childhood education to the highest studies. Similarly, research will be cut, and soon the income of the students will be cut. Instead of giving the government the opportunity to reform the structures, rash austerity measures have only resulted in significant staff reductions. The University of Helsinki reduces 980 people, Aalto University by 190 people, Åbo Akademi by 100 people. The personnel of Lappeenranta University of Technology will be reduced by 120 persons, which is 13% of the university's staff. It is quite clear that these reductions undermine both the quantity and quality of teaching. The impact of these cuts on Finnish competence, innovation and competitiveness in the longer term can only be guessed. You can try, though. The Economic Policy Review Council has recently stated that cuts in education and training have a negative impact on productivity and future growth. The EU Commission predicted a decline in the share of the workforce with tertiary education in Finland at least until 2025. The OECD considered that these cuts were not justified as they undermine the conditions for future growth and jeopardise the quality of education and research. Indeed, research is in real danger — especially basic research that does not have any immediate economic benefits. In addition, the funding of the Academy of Finland and Tekes will be reduced. The flight of talented scientists abroad has already begun, which is no wonder and which is truly regrettable. In Finland, the Sipilä Government offers only insecurity and ever-increasing competition for ever-declining research funds. Madam President! Reductions have been promised again. According to liquidator Roope Uusitalo, student funding should be reduced to EUR 250 per month in one quarter. Months of aid should be reduced and the conditions for aid tightened. The performance is unfair in many ways and deprives many students of the opportunity to study in higher education. Students are on low incomes. Adequate income is of great importance to students' daily studies, their advancements and other life. Continual reflection on whether the money will be sufficient for food, housing and other compulsory expenditure will make it difficult to complete studies, cause extra stress and anxiety and, if prolonged, also affect illness and exclusion. If the student is unable to collect an adequate number of credits, the student's student benefits paid will be refunded. You can only get back to the right allowance after you have accumulated sufficient credits, but you should get through this without the support. In order to earn a living, the student must be at work and, at the same time, accumulate adequate credits in order to receive study grants again and focus on studies. This makes the squirrel wheel difficult to control. Students don't like to take out loans. It is therefore reasonable to assume that the cuts will increase the recovery of student aid, which is already being made to around 10% of the beneficiaries. As conditions become stricter, inheritances can create a cycle that leads to more difficult income problems and drop-outs. Particularly vulnerable are family students, who have already been under adequate support under the current system. Madam President! I am particularly sorry about the savings in early childhood education and the unequal policies. From an early age, children are placed in unequal positions because of the situation of parents, unemployment. These decisions will affect the child’s later life cycle. Quality early childhood education as a preventive measure is one of the most effective measures we currently have in our service system. This is not economically justified, nor is it justified in any way in the interests of the child. Mr President! However, if I would like to express one thanks, it is that the income of parents of 18 to 19-year-old students living independently will be abandoned. This has been a long-awaited correction, and I am glad that it is finally and finally being done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u271	Madam President! As has been said many times here today, high-quality knowledge and education are undoubtedly the backbone of Finland's international competitiveness. Technological developments and improvements in the level of education provided a framework for 14-fold increase in labour productivity in the last century. However, our economic situation is so sad and serious that measures to improve the education sector are also very necessary. They are, of course, very regrettable in some respects, and certainly they are, in my opinion too. There are, however, positive reforms. In addition to other measures, mergers between universities and universities are likely to take place more frequently in the future. Even the physical distance of campuses in the age of digitalisation does not create insurmountable obstacles to cooperation. Mr President! As has already been heard today, Mr Sanni Grahn-Laasonen, Minister of Education and Culture, has set up a working group to prepare for the establishment of Tampere3 and the creation of the Minister of Curriculum. The Tampere3 project is The purpose of this project is to create synergies between universities in Tampere and universities of applied sciences, as well as important contacts with business. At the same time, more jobs are likely to be created. Cooperation between the University of Tampere, Tampere University of Technology and Tampere University of Applied Sciences will deepen in both administration and teaching, including part of the courses offered by educational institutions in the future. Mr Kurvinen has just referred to the need to take account of the needs of working life when designing education policy. Tampere 3 cooperation is an example of a structural reform that develops higher education to meet the needs of working life. The business community hopes that the Tampere 3 project will make it possible to better reconcile theoretical and practical skills and create new business ideas and long-needed jobs. The success of Tampere 3 cooperation would be a significant step forward for Finland as a whole. The legislative changes required by the project have already been brought into the parliamentary process in early next year, and the cooperation will start in 2018. This is a very good thing. Mr President! A wide range of training is also important from the point of view of regional and local education provision. Training opportunities attract young people who are motivated by educational institutions, many of whom become taxpayers in the region even after their studies have ended. Local business is often given a great deal of fresh impetus by skilled and well-trained entrepreneurs and employees. This must continue to be remembered when we develop Finnish education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u272	Madam President! I think it's been 40 years, at least, since the RKP has asked the last intermission, and this intermission has been a pretty heavy yoke for this people. It has become forced Swedish and all the other burdens here that we do not need. Tomorrow, we will discuss the government's amending budget here. The government is in debt at a record rate, and every day we live in debt. But even after listening to what the opposition has said today, there can be no other conclusion than that we should continue in the same way that the last eight years have been done, namely to take debt on top of debt and nothing should be cut off. I am not saying that I am the best expert on the situation of university students, I am certainly not. Nevertheless, I would see that EUR 250 study grants per month plus housing allowance plus supported meals plus the comprehensive services of the Student Health Foundation together, however, are quite reasonable. They are such that studies should not be stopped for now’s cutbacks. Madam President! One sentence that has been heard in opposition propaganda is that students are afraid to borrow because there is no guarantee of getting a job after the end of their studies. I understand the uncertainty that young people are experiencing, but unfortunately, we are living in uncertain times. Anyone who goes to the bank's lending counter must be feeling some kind of uncertainty. An applicant for a mortgage is likely to feel insecure and distressed when there are no guarantees of continuity of work and mortgages are in quite different euro amounts and repayment schedules from student loans. However, those who say that they are afraid to take out a student loan are the first to increase government spending and are covered by the loan. So a personal loan is bad, but a government loan is good? What's the difference? At the end of the game, they're paid off. After all, we are the state, and we will pay off that state's loan sooner or later. And then about taking out the loan. A student who takes out a loan when you have to take out a loan, targets it very carefully then, has to take responsibility, and it is also an investment in the future. I know an example. One student, about 35 years old, had studied, went to study the next thesis. I gave you such a country advice that you might want to put that pretty hand to work once in a while. This study is paid for. Everyone pays — the old people, everyone. But now that it's being specified a little bit, these things will be left out. Take responsibility for the future, for that study, for the profession to come, and so on. This makes sense. The Prime Minister had an excellent speech on how future studies will change. Let's stop studying on top of our studies. We'll have to target it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u273	Madam President! Finland will continue to be one of the leading countries in education, even though today's speeches could be thought of differently. We have an excellent education system that we all want to develop further. These cuts in education are regrettable, but in this situation they are absolutely necessary. They can also act as a driving force for change, i.e. at the same time we are reforming and, through structural reforms, we are trying to secure the core of this, namely the quality of education and research. Surgery is not a primary threat to our education, education and research. Rather, the primary threat is that there will be no change and that we will not stay on the edge of time, that is, we will not succeed in reforming our education system. Expenditure savings to balance central government finances together with the need to strengthen overall quality, effectiveness and efficiency require the development of a school network and other major structural and operational reforms in universities and universities of applied sciences. The next few years are so important for the renewal of our higher education institutions and the competence level of Finland that it is possible to talk about a reform period comparable to that of comprehensive school reform. The negotiations on the 2017-2020 contract period this year will play a key role. Universities must profile, clarify and intensify cooperation and division of labour both among themselves and with research institutions in education, research, support services, structures and infrastructures, as well as international cooperation. National and international strategic partnerships will strengthen the chosen specialisation. At the same time, it will be possible to pool the expertise of different actors into competitive concentrations, to rapidly commercialise research activities, and to promote access to research funding and investment in Finland. In its guidance, the Ministry has stressed the critical consideration of low-productive sectors and units. In the case of so-called exclusions, not only the current costs but also the unattainable potential for effectiveness must be assessed. Current reforms need to be planned in cooperation between higher education sectors to ensure adequate provision of education at sectoral and regional level. Competition for the quality of research has become more intense and domestic resources are not sufficient to achieve international standards in all sectors. In universities, as in other educational institutions, cuts in staff reduce the capacity to do high-quality and productive work. For the long-term development of university activities, it is now necessary to concentrate resources on fewer, more effective and more economically efficient functional units. In allocating expenditure savings and targeting measures, universities must ensure that education and research are not undermined. Universities have a lot to develop. All-year and life-old studies, updating teaching and exam practices to the 2010s, and student guidance, however, require resources. There will be no development without staff. The government’s massive training cuts have been a hot topic in the turbulent and squares. The decision of yesterday’s spending limits committee will certainly improve the situation if the money is put in the right places — and why not? We now need a proper implementation of the education and science policy strategy, if this has been done in educational institutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u274	Madam President! The government plans to drastically cut student support and increase loan focus. The Minister of Education's argument is to put an end to government debt, but it seems bad that students' indebtedness is ignored. In debt sustainability, however, the shoulders of the state are wider than those of a student. The Prime Minister has defended this by saying how he also studied debt in time. Is it the government that wants to go back to the past? In the age of full employment, the situation was quite different from today. During the early years of the Prime Minister’s generation, it was certain that after graduation he was able to get a job and manage the debt. In today’s world, a diploma no longer guarantees a secure job and years of raising a loan is a risk. It's a gamble to study on a loan. The student is responsible for the result, i.e. graduation, but at the same time he is not expected to have anything on the labour market. Loan-oriented student support would place students in a strongly unequal position. Such a change would lead Finland towards a class society. Education would be upper-class, and education would become a forum for the well-earned. Studying would be a luxury that not everyone has a chance to have. As a result, you could not go to school. However, it has been studied that one graduate student makes the state many times the money spent training him. It is poor economic competence to further reduce the income potential of students. Studying with loan money creates unnecessary stress for the student. This can lead to a loss of ability to study, especially when studies are struggling. "What if a degree is ready? What if the sub-choice just feels wrong after two years of college? What if I don't get a job after graduation and I have $20,000 in debt to pay?" ask the students. Not a very rosy vision of the future. Things don't always work out the way they planned. Another worry about tomorrow won't make the student's daily life any easier. A student loan shall also not be granted if there is a default in the credit register. What will happen to training these if living during a study period is based on taking out a loan? Low income during studies makes it difficult for young people to engage in hobbies and healthy lifestyles, such as eating healthy food. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the link between family wealth and physical activity among children and young people is the second strongest in Finland from all 35 countries studied. The weak economic situation is directly linked to the lack of exercise. More than one in three young people have missed a hobby because of a lack of money. Many low-income or single-parent families do not have the opportunity to help their studying child. And otherwise, parents' help will only be used in the worst of trouble. In the meantime, unpaid invoices, consumer credit and default marking may have been received. The lack of money for students also increases loneliness, which is the most detrimental factor to the well-being of Finns. Without money, you and your friends can't go to concerts, movies, restaurants, shopping or even coffee. According to the Youth Barometer 2015, a total of 17 per cent of young people have at least ever had to miss their friends because of a lack of money. The majority of these young people experience loneliness. Young people who have had no money to stop or leave the hobby completely unstarted clearly meet their friends less often than others. Their experiences of loneliness are also clearly more common. Hobbies are not just about making leisure time, but about their impact on young people’s lives
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u275	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Government education policy is one merciless cutter to the base of civilization, study and student status. This has been a merited criticism of the government from many quarters. With spending limits decisions, the government withdraws savings, albeit in very small respects, and this must be interpreted as a signal that the government itself considers its own cutting decisions to be quite difficult. In connection with its spending limits decisions, the Government has announced that there will be no further cuts in education. This promise would be much more warm if the same had not been promised before the elections and the mega-class cuts that followed. Those promises were betrayed the hard way, and it is no wonder that the students are quite deranged about how to cope with their daily lives. And what happened after last night's spending limits? It was a very sad turn of events. Yesterday, the government still incensed that no more cuts were made in education, and no matter what happened. In the bulletin to the spending limits committee, we read about the new cut in education, the permanent savings of EUR 47 million in self-employed training expenses. If the representative, currently Minister, Mr Soini were in this Chamber, I would even like to ask how dare you. And you dare. Madam President! Overall, the surgery to know-how, education and education is incomprehensible because Finland’s economic success has traditionally been based on a strong knowledge base. At the bottom of the economy, it is precisely knowledge that should be taken care of in order to ensure that there are genuine building trees for future growth. The government's fins are now completely relaxed in terms of growth and employment, and the hopes for next week's package have been thrown here several times today. I hope that it will also prove to be of benefit to this growth. As part of this whole, it is important to ensure that everyone is able to train according to their abilities if they talk about civilisation. This opportunity is also being demolished when student money is being cut. As a result, young people's economic starting points are increasingly determining their opportunities for education, i.e. they are even building economic barriers to study, and I think this is the wrong direction. The surgery planned for the student grant is very hard for the individual. Taking a quarter of anyone’s livelihood will have a great deal to do with how the daily life works and how to cope with it. Now that people are being taken away from those whose livelihoods are already weak in principle, I think the surgery is quite unreasonable. Although the government's education and education policy is partly carbon black, there is at least one very welcome thing in the recent decision on the spending limits, and it deserves praise. This is the fact that parents' incomes are now being abandoned for secondary students living independently from 18 to 19 years of age. This is a small but very welcome reform and deserves warm thanks. Madam President! The alternative budget of the SDP has shown that there is an alternative to these cuts. This has been discussed, but it has probably gone to deaf ears. The SDP's balanced option would not make these cuts and would still owe the State less than the government's. When you look at the decisions that have been made over the decades with many worthwhile lives, I find it quite inconceivable that this government is prepared to throw some of this into the wastebasket. I am not talking about this government being educationally hostile, but I am partly ashamed for Finland and for the great men and women who have worked in this country in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u276	Madam President! Members present! There have been heated debates today, and I myself would have liked to have had more debate on the content which, among other things, the representative Mr Puumala spoke. Similarly, Mr Terho said that in time all parties had to take part in various cuts here, so that, in the name of honesty, we could forget this debate already about who said what and focus on how we could invest in our quality education. It seems so strange that we were going through what someone said in the '90s today, and, as I said in my earlier speech, it was then appealed to something, a good thing not to write on Facebook, that who should be pecking at who. In particular, I have wondered a little about the SDP today, and the representative It was very hard to hear from him all day long, it was very bad to hear from him, and somehow I would like to see this matter taken seriously. This is an important issue. Last week, our representative, Mr Terho, spoke of trick employment, and then the SDP intervened in the fact that we should not speak so badly, but today I have heard that we are talking here about the Moomin patch, the tax money that is being allocated to our education: are all our tax money therefore Moomin plasterers? Here they said to Soin, "How dare you?" and I don't understand how this takes our students and our future any further. The other day, I talked to a student who was working at night, and he too realized that it was a shame if more had to take out a loan in the future. He goes to work, but he too understood this economic situation and talked really constructively with me for a long time. It was late at night, the opening hours of the shops are now long and I discussed this with him, and that was also a more constructive debate than the one we have had here today. So that I really would have liked us to have discussed how we are developing the content of our learning path. In fact, as has been pointed out here, many studies have revealed, and a few days ago, as I recall, the economist in Akava spoke of the fact that in recent years the knowledge of mathematics and science in Finnish schools has been reduced, and that is something that the measures taken by this government cannot, with certainty, be blamed for, and that is where the content should be focused. Today, the Greens' representative, Mr Yanar, also wanted to keep the government informed about the scale of the lesson and what all this means. It is true that all measures mean something to everyone, but I would like to emphasise what I thought was very important at yesterday's government briefing at 21 o'clock that an increase in the employment rate of 1% would save EUR 600 million. Now this package, which the government had to make yesterday, was 370 million. Imagine if we were to have a few percentage increases in employment. That is what we should be investing in, not thinking about what someone said in 85 C.E., and looking for them in the minutes. Somehow it looks more like a play. It was also mentioned here that there is no courage to take out a loan when you cannot even get that job. Well, then we may not want to focus so much on anything but on how we can now get the jobs, that we all have the job. We still have free training, and that is where it came up in the debates today that, for example, it costs society EUR 180,000 to become a doctor. It offers a contribution of this size. It is very good that, regardless of the social background, we can graduate as a lawyer, a doctor, whatever profession each considers necessary and what it feels like to do. Mrs Taavitsainen also mentioned that there are times when students do not have the money to meet their friends, for example, and that is the case. Even when I was a student, at times I actually ate tuna and reduced my own expenses quite a bit, and that is, whenever there is financial rigour, that is precisely the situation. It would be wonderful if we could all afford to do what we want every day, but we had to make choices, and this is how it is going to be. I hope, however, that we will be able to work quickly for everyone, and then we will certainly be able to restore and improve these levels of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u277	Congressman Silkönen, gone. Congressman Yanar, gone. There was one reply, Mr Taavitsainen, and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u278	Mr President! In reply to Mrs Merelle: You said it was a choice of students when you cannot eat healthy and engage, that is, that those choices a student would make. That is not true. At the moment, the student cannot choose to buy the macaroni and tuna, but only to buy the macaroni when there is no money even for the tuna. Yes, the Board of Directors can choose by making their own presentations and decisions, but the low-income student has little choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u279	Madam President! I didn't say anything about health effects and other things, there were very strange words. I was talking about that when you're tough on money, you have to make different choices every day. Sometimes you really go to the movies, sometimes you buy something else. I wasn't talking about any choices of a healthy or unhealthy life. I hope that we will listen in peace to those speeches so that we do not have to try to give the wrong signal about the sincere speech of a person.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u280	Madam President! The debate has been colorful again, but the development towards the future has unfortunately been limited. A solution-oriented approach would certainly be more fruitful. A few hours ago, Mr Honkonen raised the issue of de-bureaucratisation under the Government Programme. There are indeed a wide range of surveys and studies aimed at school, the better coordination of which would be a relief for the school year for principals and teachers. During the same school year, the school may have to answer a number of questions with almost the same content. However, the difference between these surveys may be so small that the previous answer cannot be used in that survey either. Of course, the schools also receive excellent measurements and surveys. For example, the school receives school-specific feedback from learning results measurements, which makes it good to develop the school’s activities. In your own speech, Minister, you asked how we are going to teach children how to control technology that has not yet been invented. Maybe we can go back 40 years to the beginning of elementary school. They lived in a completely different world. They didn't know the skills needed for the 21st century. At the time, the tasks of the home and school were more differentiated. Homes raised believing children to their own strengths, and schools were appreciated in homes. The school, on the other hand, provided opportunities to face any future. Learned cooperation skills, learned mother tongue, learned mathematics, science and history, and the arts and arts were valued. Above all, the school raised young people who believe in the future and education and lifelong learning. Minister, let us learn a little from the past. The debate on the cuts has been lost in its scale today, I must say. Even after the surgeries, the level of funding is, for example, only a few years back in higher education institutions. After all, we cannot think that the level and situation of university education would have been weak at the time. These cuts are not going to ruin the education system, just as they've tried to prove. During this term of government, education will be reformed. The best thing about this is that there is room and opportunity for reform in the schools. The best teachers in the world will be able to develop the best school in the world even better. Mr President! Transferring housing allowance to the general housing allowance is an excellent message for students. In particular, it will improve the position of low-income students. I would like to see further work on the development of the whole housing allowance system. Our economy will not be able to cope with such a complex and expensive system as Finland still has after that. The Sipilä Government is now putting Finland in good shape, so that in the future there will also be an opportunity for well-being in Finland, for quality education and for high-quality research.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u281	Madam President! Thank you all for the contributions made by Mr Stubb and Mr Toivola, in particular, to look a little further than in the current situation. We all consider equal opportunities to train and study very important. Although we have made progress in Finland, we still have much to improve. Contrary to what has been suggested here by the opposition, the increase in loan orientation does not automatically mean an increase in the inheritance of education. Personally, I believe that what matters more than wealth in acquiring or inheriting education is how people talk about education in the family, in the circle of friends, in the media and also in this room. In the past, and to a large extent today, a university degree guaranteed a job. In 2013, the unemployment rate for highly educated persons was around 5 per cent, compared with around 16 per cent for comprehensive school graduates. So we can still say that education is a good insurance policy against unemployment. However, more is being done in the direction that the degree is the basis for life-long learning. The degree no longer guarantees a job or at least a good and high income. Although a large proportion of highly educated people continue to find good employment, there are differences in the employment of education and training sectors. That is why I think it is important that the number of places to study in different fields is guided by employment, both in vocational education and in higher education. This is also best done through funding, according to the educational field’s own messages. However, the structure of the economy is changing and education and sectors must also change in time. This will mean more and more that re-training may be timely for more people. Mr President! Ever since I was a child, I've been an educational believer. I'm sure I've been too much. However, at the moment I am very grateful that I had the opportunity to train in addition to sport. Education brought security to the future. I do not like the view that personal experience is the only or even the most important indicator or guidance for decisions. History experiences and lessons are important, but more at the level of statistics. Instead, it is important that we listen to the voices of those affected by the decisions we make. When we met with student support cuts and reforms when planning students and their interest groups, we received valuable feedback and development ideas. Although cuts in student funding could not be reversed, many other concerns raised by students could be taken into account, perhaps the greatest requirement for tightening the requirement for progress in studies. I have also talked a lot about student aid with non-students. It has come as a surprise to many that we currently have a student loan credit of up to 40%. In practice, a large part of the loan will be forgiven if graduation takes place within a time limit that is about one year longer than the average planned duration of a higher education degree. Now, as the loan weighting of student aid increases, the importance of credit for loans is emphasised. The student allowance cut is about 80 euros for some students and about 50 euros for some depending on the starting time. If the drop of the 80 euros student grant is replaced by a student loan, there is an additional loan of around 4000 euros during the study period. Assuming that the loan has already taken over EUR 2400 and is completed within the deadline, the EUR 4000 will be forgiven for EUR 1600, leaving EUR 2400 to be paid. When representatives of the opposition speak of tens of thousands of student loans because of this cut, that is not the case. Of course, it is now possible to increase borrowing, and if it is used in maximum terms, the total pool will increase to tens of thousands of euros. However, for a few people today, only student support is sufficient to make a living, and additional resources are sought from work or from borrowing. Mr President! With this example, I do not want to underestimate the size of student allowance cuts, and I understand the uncertainty of people, especially in the early stages of their studies, to borrow. I've been through it myself in my time. I therefore hope that the credit for student loans can continue to be maintained as part of our student support system. It also encourages rapid graduation. I also hope that, in the further preparation of the government, the flexibility in the repayment of student loans can be harmonised and simplified in such a way that, in unexpected circumstances, the rights of students are the same. Mr President! I hope that we can continue to have a debate in this Chamber that will create faith in our education system and our future, not only to paint darker threats. I hope that the government will have the strength and the will to implement reforms which will strengthen employment in particular, because raising employment is the only way forward for sustainable growth and the long-term balance of central government finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u282	Mr President! I do not want to prolong the debate much more at this point in the evening, but just a few observations, too, that when posterity reads these minutes and you do not know what will happen in Finland, it is good to bring a few statistical facts. I am not quite sure that they have already been here in the debate, but if they have not, then I thought at least I would say so. The first relates to the fact that, although I do not want to undervalue this rather severe cut in student aid, it is good to be aware that the unemployment of academically educated people, even though it is higher at the moment than perhaps ever before, is considerably lower than that of those who have a lower level of education. Another fact, which is completely new information and which has been revealed by the Bank of Finland's study, is that academic education is, in fact, even more profitable at the moment than it has been in the past. So an even greater difference in income over a lifetime arises from being academically educated, compared to those who are not academically educated. This is a natural thing because they, the majority of them, also have access to the international labour market. The third fact, which may have remained rather small in this training debate too, is what the European Commission's country report tells us, namely that, despite all the unfortunate cuts that have been made to the education sector in relation to GDP, Finland continues to spend most money on research and product development in the European Union. This is something that is very rarely remembered, but this is what the European Commission's country report says in word. So sometimes you have to admit that some things are still good, even though they could, of course, be better.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-06-ps-33.u283	Madam President! I'll continue with the last one when I'm not finished. When September was a mid-term issue of education policy, I raised the issue of tuition fees for students from outside the EU and the EEA. I said that in a situation where education is also being cut off, it is unacceptable to pay for free studies for the whole world. In addition, tuition fees are an effective way to eliminate those who come after a free degree. In this economic situation, Finland cannot do this. Now that the public side is growing, our taxes are rising all the time, from somewhere it has to be covered, so we can't accept this either. It is a good thing that these people receive tuition fees and can be used to balance it even slightly. We have a situation such that companies that finance this, and a well-being part that finances this society, including the disadvantaged, will leave Finland. And whoever leaves Finland is in a tax haven at the moment. So these cuts have to be made, and this is one of the areas in which we are now going to put them. If there is a need for further clarification, then there will be officials in the Ministry and a skilled minister in us who will be very equal in targeting them.
