ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. In this context, discussion is also allowed on the 3rd and 4th issues of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. We've got three tax laws coming up. A few words about these in common and in general: The basic principle of the government's tax line is that we reduce the tax burden on work and enterprise, because Finnish well-being can only grow from work and entrepreneurship in Finland and because only a successful Finnish company is one that can employ. The Government Programme aims at a 72% employment rate, which is the basis for maintaining our Nordic welfare society and also for balancing public finances. This objective requires the creation of 110,000 new jobs during the Government's term of office, and since these 110,000 new jobs can in practice only be created for successful Finnish companies and, above all, for the SME sector, the Government considers it justified to reduce entrepreneurship, which is a clear indication of what I have just said that the government believes that only by encouraging and encouraging employment and risk-taking can Finland succeed. President! The second proposal before us is the reduction of inheritance tax. This is in line with that one. The aim of this is, above all, to support Finnish ownership entrepreneurship, to promote the generation of business exchanges, and this is particularly the case in the SME sector. However, when we constantly consider how we can get new companies to Finland and startups to Finland, which is absolutely necessary, we must pay attention to what the government is doing now: also to the continuation of existing Finnish companies. We still have thousands or tens of thousands of Finnish family businesses, which are in a generational transition situation, and this help, this hand-out, is precisely for these situations to keep this important business at home. In fact, if the generation change takes place, we will, as it were, always create a new start-up company, because the new generation, the new entrepreneur, will certainly want to start developing the business and increasing the company and getting it into a real career. The third tax law is an increase in the lower limit of real estate tax. With this, the Government wants to improve the financial position of municipalities and strengthen the ability of municipalities to manage the provision and production of basic services necessary for us Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u3	Mr President! Two tax proposals have arrived today in the Parliament, both of which make a transfer from the disadvantaged to the high incomes: a reduction in inheritance tax and gift tax and a so-called entrepreneurial deduction, a pharmacy deduction in Finnish. These proposals are combined by the fact that neither of them achieves the objectives set for them by the government. Entrepreneurial deduction does not help low-income personal entrepreneurs. The reduction in inheritance tax and gift tax does not contribute to the continuation of business within the same family. The committee should therefore reject both acts and save almost EUR 200 million in tax money, with which the drastic cuts in vocational training can be cancelled. Students, families with children and pensioners will also find better use of these tens of millions donated for no reason. Mr President! The 5% reduction would apply to all businesses and professionals, of whom there are approximately 300,000 in Finland. The argument is that when public limited companies received a tax reduction, others also have to do so, including farmers and forest owners. This tight economic situation is not, therefore, so tight that you cannot afford to have an interest group policy of up to EUR 123 million. How did this happen, Minister Orphan? Support for small entrepreneurs will flow into the pockets of the most well-off in society. 60% of this cash pool, or EUR 75 million, will end up in the highest income categories. Sixty per cent, 75 million, this is how Parliament's information service has fallen. Apologize to the pharmacists, they're good people, but according to the Apothecary Association's records, the average pharmacist gets 5,700 euros in a clean hand every year doing nothing. The highest-income pharmacist in Finland receives EUR 25000. The government’s proposal shows that the majority of the beneficiaries of the deduction are very low incomes. Half of them earn less than EUR 10,000 a year — half of them earn less than EUR 10,000 a year. These low-income job heroes will benefit from your entrepreneurship reduction by one bus ticket a day. A trip back to the small business has to pay for themselves. Mr President! Rarely have so few received so much. Employment is always the first priority for social democrats. Certainly a few ten years will delight a low-income barber, but it does not attract new entrepreneurs, and it does not encourage the entrepreneur to do more work because he already spends all 24 hours on it. Even less free ton in the private doctor’s pocket will encourage additional work. He may even think that money increases as if he does nothing when he has such a laudable government. The economy will grow from it, but unfortunately not from Finland. Six thousand euros is a nice holiday trip to Sansibar's safari. There is therefore no indication here that Mr Orpo has just mentioned encouraging work, entrepreneurship and risk-taking, on the contrary. Mr President! In summary: The Government distributes EUR 120 million to its friends without benefiting the Finnish economy. This is an irresponsible waste of tax resources. If we really want to help small entrepreneurs, why do we not carry out their wishes? The option for Social Democrats is to target aid to small entrepreneurs and increase the threshold for value added from 10000 to 30,000. Minister of Finance Rinne made the last increase, and it is good to continue with it. The cost impact on public finances is the same, but instead of reducing pharmacists, we are creating more entrepreneurship, more jobs, more economic activity. At the same time, we send a message that the small entrepreneur is an honorary citizen of Finland. We want to encourage entrepreneurs and encourage entrepreneurship. All contributions to employment. 120 million would hire over 4,000 nearby nurses.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u4	Congressman Heinonen. — After Mr Heinonen, two more speeches will be made and then the debate will take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u5	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Acid, said the demo about tax cuts for small entrepreneurs. However, new jobs have been created in practice in small businesses during this millennium. As Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo said, only by working will Finland succeed. During the first ten years of this millennium, only over 7,000 new jobs were created in large companies, but small and medium-sized SMEs created jobs for more than 100,000 Finns. There are about 300,000 companies in our country and they employ more than 1.4 million Finns, and it is an important resource to run this country. The number of enterprises with fewer than 10 employees is over 93 per cent of the country's stock of enterprises and only 0.2 per cent of large enterprises, or just under 600. SMEs therefore account for up to 99.8% of the stock of enterprises. Last season, when the Minister of Finance was tasked with a Social Democrat, the corporation tax was reduced to 20%, and this discount did not take advantage of partnerships or businesses. We did, of course, support it, we thought it was sensible to do so, but then, as Mr Harakka said earlier populistly, the social democrats did not see to it that these small and medium-sized enterprises also benefited from it. It should be noted that the total taxation of these passenger companies is about five per cent even more stringent than employees in the corresponding income brackets at the moment. That reduction in corporation tax under the leadership of the Social Democratic Minister for Finance was specifically aimed at lawyers and this group of people who are limited companies. Now, under the leadership of the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, this reform is being carried out, the reduction in entrepreneurship for the workers who are the entrepreneurs listed above by Mr Harakkak — there were duds, and there were barbers and others — and that is precisely where this is happening. In contrast, tax evasion during the last parliamentary term concerned all companies and forms of enterprise. In other words, the reduction went only to the largest, i.e. to these limited companies through corporation tax, but tax evasions were made for all companies and business forms. About half of the SMEs are non-public limited companies. The Finnish Entrepreneurs have stated that this entrepreneurial discount is now under discussion that it "sets different forms of companies more on the same line in taxation". "The whole question of equality and the benefits of the smallest companies",is shared by the Finnishbusinesses,who "The proposal shows that the Government’s contribution to small-scale entrepreneurship,after the Entrepreneurship of Finland, had been presented by the Government. They also stated that "public information on the impact of entrepreneurship reduction has been contradictory". I don't know where they came from. According to the Tax Administration data, there are approximately 176,000 traders in Finland: business names, open companies, limited companies. Of these, 77% have an annual taxable income of less than EUR 30000. Thus, with the income of EUR 30000, the entrepreneurial deduction corresponds in practice to a tax reduction of approximately EUR 600. In other words, 77% of these companies have an annual taxable income of less than EUR 30000, and the government specifically now wants to put more business and kick in with a reduction in entrepreneurial activity. As the Minister for Finance said, only by working will Finland succeed. Mr President! I personally believe that entrepreneurship reduction will not only have an impact on justice but also on employment. And in connection with this debate — I do not know whether the debate on the other two was allowed — I would also like to say briefly that it has been done specifically to facilitate generational exchanges so that these companies can continue to operate, and the idea here is precisely that the gift tax will be cheaper for the first time, and that this could also be done in a forward-looking way. And I understand the upward pressure on real estate tax even in this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u8	Madam President! Entrepreneurship reduction is a long-awaited matter, and the speeches made at the beginning — Mr Haraka's speech in particular — seemed a little like those hand-washing speeches in relation to the activities of previous periods and the current government. This is the long-term objective of the city centre and one of the most important government tax proposals, and it is great that this entrepreneurial reduction is finally achieved. After all, a reduction in the number of entrepreneurs corrects the injustice between the different forms of enterprise that the fall in corporation tax caused during the previous government term. Now, for those forms of business that were not affected by the reduction in the corporate tax rate in 2014, entrepreneurial deduction will be introduced, and with good pleasure, I can say that it may be that I myself will receive this reduction, but there will be 150,000 other Finnish entrepreneurs. It's good to be on this ride.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u11	Mr President! The government proposal under discussion on entrepreneurship reduction is a hand-out for small entrepreneurs, and it may also be for pharmacies. The reduction is 5% of the income of the operators, open companies and limited partnership companies. According to the Finnish Tax Administration, there are just under 180,000 traders in Finland, of which about 80 per cent have an annual taxable income of less than EUR 30000, which would be equivalent to a tax reduction of about EUR 600. According to Finnish Entrepreneurs, there would be 5,000 companies operating with more than EUR 100,000 in entrepreneurial deductions. In practice, the reduction means that the higher the income, the greater the reduction. During the last government term, corporation tax on limited liability companies was reduced by as much as 4.5 per cent. It was aimed at promoting the competitiveness of the communities, the willingness to invest and employment. I would like to quote from a long-standing Member of Parliament on corporate tax: 'The reduction in corporation tax of EUR 800 million is a fraud, partly draining into dividends, not employment'. This is what Mikko Elo once said. As mentioned in the Government's proposal, business activities are also widely pursued in other forms of enterprise, and reductions are welcome in the private sector, the business group, agriculture, forestry and reindeer husbandry. Based on the tax return data for the tax year 2014, there are 150,000 companies in Finland that make a deduction of less than EUR 10000. The tax reduction on these things will be very small, and it will probably not be possible to assume that this tax solution will increase business very much, but, as I said, this too is a small hand extension. The idea of entrepreneurship reduction of forest holdings is to encourage forest owners to engage in forestry activity and investment by reducing the tax burden on timber sales. Taxable capital income is decreasing, taxes are falling, and of course more remains to be done. In the winning year, the change is clear and beneficial for the forest owner. However, the reduction also applies to the year of loss, when income is not sufficient to cover the costs of forestry. Losses may be deducted from other capital income or earned income in the form of a deficit credit if there is not sufficient wood sales income. Entrepreneurial deduction will change the situation so that only 95% of losses will be taken into account in the calculation of deductions in the future. So in a year of loss, the tax deduction is somewhat lower than before. However, according to the calculations, in a year of loss, taxation would increase by only about EUR 50 on average and the corresponding amount would return to the forest owner as a higher tax advantage in connection with the next profitable year. As a whole, the change is beneficial for forest owners and it is likely to increase the trade in wood. Mr President! I think this is a positive signal for small businesses, because it is generally known that the majority of our countries are micro- and small enterprises, i.e. almost 99%, and this should be increased. One good example of the government is the transition to a payment-based VAT account in smaller companies. At present, the limit is EUR 500000 in turnover, and it is desirable that this limit should be raised.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u12	Secretary Orphan wants to spend three minutes at this point, please. And it's now possible to sign up for the debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u13	Mr President! I do not really thank you for all the contributions, but there were some good ones. There are two things at stake: firstly, do we respect trying in Finland? The Government respects enterprise and believes that it is only through companies and successful companies that jobs can be created that generate added value and that we will be able to finance our welfare society services. The second question is whether we believe that reducing the tax burden on work and enterprise can encourage enterprise, growth and employment. The government believes, the opposition apparently doesn't. But we must also thank the opposition parties for having made a good reduction in corporate tax last season, and as a result we now see that corporate tax revenue has not fallen, even though it was a significant reduction. We see that a reduction in taxes can also create a dynamic for the economy, and this too is absolutely essential whether or not to believe in this, and so the government believes. Thirdly, I think it is unfair to take a single tax instrument and think about it. It would be fair to look at the whole of the government's tax policy at that time and take into account the fact that the government will reduce the tax burden on lower labour income and labour income of middle-income people by EUR 450 million, which is significant, as it did last year. In addition, there is a steady tax reduction of 515 million, 0.6%, linked to the Kiki agreement for all categories of income, including pensioners, which is very fair and fair. Tax policy is a whole. The central line of the government is to support work and entrepreneurship, and even with this entrepreneurship reduction, it sends a strong message that it is worthwhile to try and increase your business and even to succeed – it too sometimes has to be said out loud. If Finland cannot succeed, Finland cannot succeed either. Finland already has one of the world's toughest progresses. We have a solidarity tax, which was introduced last season and extended this year. We therefore have a strong interest in the elements of justice. Finland must be able to work and try to make it worthwhile.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u15	Mr President! Now, don't try to paint black white. Sixty per cent, or 75 million, of the entrepreneurship reduction will end up in the highest income categories. In terms of quantity, hairdressers, shoemakers and sole proprietors, micro-entrepreneurs are the overwhelming majority, but they do not benefit much from this. The reduction in income tax is more beneficial for them, and the SDP model ensures even better income for low incomes. This is a tax gift for high-income doctors, pharmacists, lawyers and quite incomprehensible in this economic situation. In addition, the last employee doctor will now have to change his business form. We have read the newsletters of Finnish Entrepreneurs, which is quite right because this has been copied directly from the Finnish Entrepreneurs' Programme into the Government Programme. Professor Niskakangas, who was being heard today by the Tax Division, stated that this is a special tax benefit for someone who has been dictated by Finnish Entrepreneurs in the Government Programme. This EUR 600 is only
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u16	Mr President! In the big picture of economic policy, individual decisions are needed that stimulate growth and increase employment. Both the entrepreneurial deduction and this inheritance and gift tax work in this direction. I am sure that those people who will be in this Chamber in a few years' time will all agree that the decision taken in this time period worked in the right direction, responded to expectations and accelerated those people to try more and more to influence what employment will be in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u17	Mr President! The fact is, the SDP appreciates entrepreneurship. We see that small and medium-sized enterprises in particular have the future of Finland. However, this government proposal cuts tax revenue by EUR 123 million, giving it 60% to the richest entrepreneurs, the two largest revenue deciles. According to your own proposal, this has little or no employment impact, perhaps zero employment impact. The Social Insurance Institution has calculated that the purchasing power of pensioners, unemployed, families with children, students will be weakened. Would it not make more sense to spend this money — if you do not want to use the SDP to increase the threshold for this VAT obligation or to deduct EUR 20000 for the first employee — to increase purchasing power for pensioners, the unemployed and families with children?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u18	Madam President! When the funds are scarce, it is worth using them as efficiently as possible to have the maximum effect. The problem with this entrepreneurship reduction is that the benefit may not be as sensibly targeted as possible. One option could be to limit entrepreneurship reduction to EUR 50000 of income, so that it would be more focused where it is more effective. And as far as entrepreneurship in general is concerned, it is more worthwhile to invest in the fact that this self - making is worthwhile. By reducing taxation on the result already achieved, for example, a reduction in corporation tax does not make it any easier to make a result, it simply leaves more of it. In that sense, it would be better to emphasise, for example, that employment is more profitable than it is at present. And as for the inequality between the name of the activity and the limited liability company, there is always the possibility for business name entrepreneurs to convert the name of the activity into a limited liability company.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u19	Mr President! Exactly 11 years ago, the then finance minister Eero Heinäluoma presented the total abolition of the property tax, about 120 million to the 40,000 richest in Finland. This is the kind of proposal that the Social Democrats drove through at the time. During the last parliamentary term, Minister Urplainen introduced a drastic reduction in corporate tax, and the big companies have benefited from it: the better the result, the more the benefits have been, and the benefits have been distributed in dividends, much of which has gone to American pension funds, the celebrations are there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u20	Mr President! Representatives of the government parties have spoken beautifully about promoting growth and employment and supporting low-income SMEs. The question arises which bill you are talking about. We know from these income distribution calculations that by far the greatest benefit of these tax reductions goes to the wealthiest entrepreneurs and professionals of all. We also know that the effects on growth and employment will remain small and uncertain because it is evident from the presentation of these legislative proposals: 'The proposed reduction is not estimated to have significant effects on business growth or entrepreneurship'. So, if we want to support growth and entrepreneurship, why not invest in this increase in the VAT threshold, and why not invest in correcting the social exclusion of entrepreneurs or increasing the resources for product development and research?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u21	Madam President! On 27 September 2013, as the first signatory, I submitted the initiative TAA 574 on entrepreneurship reduction. Other signatories were found in the SDP, the Left Alliance, even the Assembly and the RKP.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u22	Madam President! Indeed, entrepreneurship reduction is about work and equity, and it is about new work, because almost all new jobs are currently created by SMEs. And while the importance of this reduction is being underestimated here, incentives for entrepreneurship are important at the moment. Small businesses are important job creators, and more than 10% of private sector jobs are in these small enterprises, which are also important. Another essential aspect of this reform is equity. And, as Minister Orpo said, we have to look at the whole. And you will remember that 2014 came into force with this corporate tax rebate, which only applied to limited companies, whereas during the last government term the capital tax increases applied to all forms of business. Approximately half of Finland's SMEs are non-these forms of limited liability company.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u23	Mr President! When I listened to the Minister of Finance's speech, in which he said that this is now a question of whether we support entrepreneurship, and when he told me how important this is for Finnish business, I would like to ask who has made the presentation that we are now reading here on our tables. In fact, Mr Orpo, in your proposal, I understand that this is a bill you have presented, it is stated, as has been said many times here, that these growth effects are possible but by no means certain, and if any growth may arise, it will at most happen in these most wealthy partnerships. So this is not about supporting entrepreneurship or not. This is a question of you having brought a proposal that, if there are any, will have a full impact on employment. And at the same time, you are leaving small businesses without any real employment impact.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u24	Secretary Orphan, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u25	Mr President! This speech confirms that you do not believe that trying is the one who carries Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u26	Mr President! In this Chamber, in the context of the debate on the budget, I recall Prime Minister Sipilä's appeal to put an end to this careful misunderstanding. I would like this demand to reach the Minister of Finance as well. I'd like to believe this, but when the performance you brought here, you don't believe... Or at least there is no fact about what you are saying here in the presentation that you have brought here. This is not on faith. This depends on the preparation of officials, as you have stressed many times. This is not about achieving employment or growth effects. According to your own motion, they are very moderate, if at all. And at the same time you are cutting off the low incomes, leaving small businesses without real employment measures, such as the increase in the VAT threshold that we have proposed. It's just that like the Sheriff of Nottingham, you take from the poor and give to the rich.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u27	Secretary Orphan, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u28	Mr President! It is a question of saving the world, in your opinion, by hiring everything in the public sector and by tightening taxes, to bring the economy into balance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u29	Madam President! Oh, this art of deliberate misunderstanding! The SDP has its own clear options to support a small entrepreneur, a medium-sized entrepreneur, but, President-in-Office, Mr Orpo, this is now a follow-up to this Robinhood story written by the government itself, in which the hero is not Robin Hood, but unfortunately the Sheriff of Nottingham. This is now a sequel to what we have seen. The government can afford to reduce the taxation of millions of inheritances, the government can afford to support the most well-paid entrepreneurs, pharmacists, private doctors, lawyers, while the government tells the unemployed in Finland that there is no money, while the government is cutting off the care of the elderly and telling them that there is absolutely no money. At these times, a couple hundred million such as this, which now goes to these two tax reductions, is an incomprehensible value choice, but it is the government's choice of values,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u30	Madam President! This world is not built with envy, neither in Finland nor elsewhere. Mr President! It does seem to me that the left-wing view of entrepreneurship and the result there is very strange: as if on the day of the account, the employee and all of us have a bank account bag at home with the same certainty. The Competitiveness Pact strengthens Finnish entrepreneurship, and society will also be met through taxation when the result is generated, so that the company can spend that money to run, employ and strengthen its own business. That is how this mechanism works in practice. In other words, it does not come on the day of the account, it only comes by doing so, and society is prepared to support it in this respect also through taxation. That is a fair policy, because small businesses are in real trouble at the moment. And if there's someone there who's more able to do it, no one should be jealous of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u31	Mr President! Mr Orpo, you said that you believe that this would bring jobs. I can tell you that beliefs do not create jobs. Jobs will come to SMEs and small businesses when there is a need for workers. That's when they hire employees. I myself have been a small entrepreneur, and I know that at that point, if a company needs an employee, it will be hired because it is an advantage for the company. If the situation were to be made easier, then employees would be employed, for example, there should now be far more people in pharmacies, lawyers' offices and medical firms than there is now, because they can already afford to hire people there. And now, if we get a EUR 600 reduction on this relief, which is much less cashina, then I can tell you, Minister Orpo, that it is not enough money to hire a single employee. I would like you to have time to visit five companies and ask them when they are hiring.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u32	Madam President! I support the further development of Mr Rinte's idea that VVO's dividends, or trade union, should also be taxed, and then Li Andersson's wish to increase the VAT threshold can be realised. Then we'll all be happy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u33	Mr President! The SDP loves unemployment, otherwise it wouldn't stay on its legs, it's built on such a foundation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u38	Mr President! The Greens are also a pro-entrepreneurship party, and the fact that the government is looking for ways to facilitate entrepreneurship is right, but then we should listen to experts about what is an effective way to do it. In our own model, we have accepted that some form of entrepreneurship reduction could be made to facilitate the position of low-income entrepreneurs, but the ceiling would be set at EUR 50000, so that until the income it is allocated correctly, and almost half of this State aid, tax aid, would be saved, which could then be allocated to other purposes. Experts... Mr President! Experts agree that tax subsidies, business subsidies as a rule are inefficient and more intelligent to promote entrepreneurship should lower the employment threshold. Would it not be smarter to make it easier for the first external worker to be hired, even by removing secondary labour costs for a year and reducing the taxation of low-income workers instead of making holes in the tax system all the time with new deductions? It would make it easier for entrepreneurship to find employment worthwhile.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u39	Mr President! These proposed tax changes can be assessed from three different perspectives: firstly, changes in tax revenue, secondly, fairness and thirdly, employment and growth effects. And from these three points of view, these government proposals for a reduction in inheritance tax and a reduction in entrepreneurship are not justified. First of all, the tax revenue is weakening and it creates a cut pressure on services and income transfers. Secondly, tax reductions are most targeted at the highest income categories, while at the same time the poor are being cut off, and this cannot be regarded as a fair social policy. Thirdly, the reduction in inheritance tax and the reduction in self-employment will not increase much employment or growth, and this has also been stated in the government's proposal itself. It would be more intelligent to allocate the same money to support the employment of small businesses. Now the money goes mostly to the big entrepreneurs, not to the much-talked barbers. The reduction of inheritance tax in the current tight economic climate is not justified in terms of growth, and the accumulation of assets...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u40	Madam President! The Christian Democrats have been pushing for this entrepreneurial reduction for a long time and we are pleased that it is finally being achieved. This is a question of placing different forms of enterprise under equal treatment. Why on earth should such craftsmen, such as hairdressers, or otherwise shoemakers or physiotherapists, not get a little more? What on earth is the reason why the left wing of the Chamber wants these people who work a hugely long day, a truly physical job, not in any way in this situation to be taxed at the same level as limited companies? But in order not to go to praise or defend the government, I would have liked to ask about this increase in the lower limit of property tax: In rural areas in particular, there is a problem that these tax values have long since fallen short of what is actually being paid for these dwellings at the moment. And this is a problem because the property tax is rising all the time and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u41	Mr President! Minister Orpo, it is a good starting point for helping small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to grow and expand their activities, to create jobs. For less than 10 years, I myself have been an entrepreneur and I know the problems and challenges of its everyday life, and it is good that the leeway is found there. But yes, of course, we have this employment issue number one. And when you say in the presentation of your own bill that this does not produce economic growth and does not have any significant employment effects — if at all — would it not be more sensible to spend this EUR 123 million or what size it is, then now, for example, to increase the VAT ceiling or then to reduce the tax burden of EUR 20000 for those professionals who have 200,000 in Finland. If 10% of them were willing to hire their first co-worker through the tax deduction, 20,000 more jobs would be created. Think about this option, Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u42	Mr President! The Government's tax policy is a good whole. This is where Secretary Orphan did a good job of filming it. It is related to a reduction in the tax burden on labour and to a reduction in the taxation of pensioners. On the other hand, this debate has shown that the SDP, the Left Alliance and the Greens do not want around 200,000 companies in the same position as the limited companies. It has become clear here that you do not want around 200,000 businesses and entrepreneurs to be in the same position. And this means, broadly speaking, about a million people. You want higher taxation for these personal entrepreneurs, who hold Finland up in many ways. The government's tax policy is fair in this respect. It brings equality. It replaces the tax policy line of the last period, complements it. After the reduction in corporation tax, private companies were in a worse position. In this respect, it is sad that you are raising a few professional groups, such as pharmacists, like a stick on the beak. They are doing important work in their own sector and should not be despised here in the Chamber, in Parliament, for the work they have done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u43	Mr President! I have to say, I'm confused about this conversation. It would be hoped that even the Minister of Finance would respond to the criticisms that have been properly made, rather than expressing its own prejudice in relation to left-wing policy. So the problem here is that you are spending more than EUR 120 million in a way which, even according to your own proposal, will not have the desired effects on growth and employment, and which is by far the greatest benefit for the most wealthy professionals and personal entrepreneurs. Yes, Mr Essayah, we are also concerned about the low-income barbers and duds, but they will not benefit from this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u44	Mr President! In the Greens' model, entrepreneurship reduction would go to those who have low incomes and for whom it would mean a few hundred euros more, but then there would be a limit so that it would not benefit these very large personal entrepreneurs quite unduly. There is talk of thousands of euros, which they benefit, and there is no economic justification for putting such amounts of money there. And indeed, if we look at the tax system as a whole, our tax experts who wonder how entrepreneurship and employment would be profitable in Finland, generally — almost everyone — would like a clearer, simpler tax system with a basic tax rate, a tax rate for employment, to be put down. And now we're making new deductions for the holes in there and here. Even in the case of dividend taxation, there is an excessive norm yield rate, which reduces the tax-free dividend there so that there are different gaps in the system where you can play. A fair system would be that all forms of entrepreneurship would be profitable and employment would always be profitable without making new loopholes in every system that cost the state and are ineffective.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u45	Mr President! Indeed, this income-sharing effect must be criticised, since the benefits of this entrepreneurial reduction, which is a very positive word, are those of the highest-income entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u46	Mr President! Indeed, this is also a question of fairness, for when, during the last parliamentary term, lawyers, pharmacists who are partners in limited companies were given an incentive to try and grow. I think that's important. It is also the case that the work is changing all the time. More work is done as an entrepreneur. At this time, I think that this entrepreneurial deduction is very good so that, as an entrepreneur, it can also be introduced as a barber and work as an entrepreneur, earn a living and increase national income. I think, Social Democrats, when you only tightened taxes last season, there were 100,000 unemployed, because you cannot continue on this line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u47	Mr President! Now that you have listened to these debates, the first thing that comes to mind is that not all opposition parties want new jobs in Finland. Big jobs with a lot of people working there's not much. Thanks to the Turku shipyard, it was a top achievement. Here comes the clouds of these orders. Minister of Finance Orpo: Will entrepreneurial deduction, payment-based VAT relief, inheritance tax and gift tax bill be for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises or to the detriment of them?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u48	Madam President! All economic well-being is based on work and entrepreneurship. That is why the Coalition Party is making a policy to support the conditions for work and entrepreneurship. The preconditions for working have been supported during this government term, among other things, by reducing the tax burden on earned income. In addition, incentives traps are to be dismantled and unemployment security is also to be changed in a more active direction. Entrepreneurship in this parliamentary term will be promoted, among other things, by promoting local agreements, including by transforming VAT into a payment-based approach and also by means of this entrepreneurship reduction, which aims to encourage entrepreneurship. When all economic well-being is based on work and entrepreneurship, work and entrepreneurship must be encouraged. There has been talk here of the meaning of faith. I say that without faith in the future, entrepreneurs do not hire any employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u49	One speech before the Minister. — Representative Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u50	Mr President! It's sad that when you're weak about it, you start calling people names. Do not, Minister Orpo, adopt the manners of your predecessor, Minister Stubb.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u54	Secretary Orphan, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u55	Mr President! However, in my opinion, the last speech gave value to the fact that an entrepreneurial reduction is being made, but that is the problem at the top. Firstly, if we had such a limit there, it would be artificial again, it would be an obstacle to one growth. Then we come back to the way we think: that it is good to see that even today, even on the left, we are talking about entrepreneurship, Mr Zyskowicz gave a good list of these issues, which relate to enterprise as a whole and its incentives: VAT based on contributions. The reduction in the tax burden on labour is very important, and it is precisely for the smallest companies which, through the taxation of labour, actually take that credit from there for entrepreneurship. The competitiveness agreement was important from the point of view of business. We have legislative reforms to facilitate the recruitment of workers. The household allowance will be improved. At the moment, we are taking a number of measures to improve the conditions for trying, and this whole package is what I strongly defend. I myself believe that a good starting point for taxation is a broad tax base and low rates. However, it is justified to take specific measures to support the most essential issues for society, and this time it is SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises, encouraging their activities, encouraging them to take risks, encouraging them to succeed so that they can hire new workers so that Finland can remain a Nordic welfare society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u56	Mr President! In this Chamber, we have heard several times, at the mouth of the government, to justify cuts to low incomes by the fact that this economic situation is simply so serious and difficult that it is now necessary to cut and everyone needs to get hurt. It is therefore quite confusing that, in this situation, where the economy is in a serious state and we see that it is unfortunately not getting much better, and that the low incomes need to be cut off, there is suddenly 123 million to be distributed to high-income companies. What makes this particularly confusing is the fact that there are no expectations behind these laws that it will increase employment, increase growth and bring to the economy the good that we can then use later. So it is a purely gift, and these effects, to which reference has been made, seem to be really based only on government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u57	Madam President! That is exactly where Mr Pakkanen quoted Anssi Kela, so it is those masons and duds that are now being helped. Of course, there are doctors there, but about 80 percent of taxable profit - producing traders had an annual result of less than 30,000, and these are the people that must be helped. I myself have a limited liability company, but I understand that not everyone necessarily wants to set up a limited liability company, but some people want to act as private companies. These are the people we have to help. Of course, that alvia — only then will VAT be paid when the money has come into the company — help. Hopefully, the 150,000 sole entrepreneurs will now also be able to take on an employee — yes, other thresholds must also be eased. And I hope that this will also help the unemployed, that they will dare to try with their own profession.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u58	Madam President! Indeed, one must be surprised that when the government states in its own bill that it is intended to encourage entrepreneurship, then at the same time it is stated in the explanatory statement that this bill is of the greatest benefit to high-income, wealthy entrepreneurs and to increase income disparities. It is said here that 'the increase in income differentials is caused by the fact that the tax-reducing effects of changes are more effective in terms of the euro in terms of the small number of high-income companies and their owners than the large number of low-income companies and their owners'. This is once again a clear choice of values for the government, more so when, at the same time, the government itself admits that these employment and economic effects are completely in the air. The Government itself states,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u59	Mr President! As has been said here today, entrepreneurship reduction increases incentives for entrepreneurship and employment and contributes to entrepreneurship and is part of the Government's action programme to facilitate and improve the conditions for entrepreneurship. Although there has been a lot of criticism here today from the left-wing opposition, it can, however, play a decisive role in cases where a person hesitates to become an entrepreneur or wonders about ending a business with relatively limited income. That too should be taken into account. On the other hand, this proposal corrects the mismatch with the taxation of limited liability companies, which is quite right. Mr President! In a functioning market economy, this tax reduction should also contribute to a price shift and increase demand and hence employment. I will not take a position on whether Finland is a functioning market economy, but that is what we must strive for in any case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u60	Mr President! This debate is not about whether we want to encourage entrepreneurship here or not. This debate is about who needs this incentive the most. In fact, when the government parties are constantly repeating duds and tailors and these very small businesses, this government's own proposal states that it is precisely among these entrepreneurs that this reduction has virtually no effect. Yes, all the work is important, both the work done by the pharmacists and the work done by the cobblers and tailors, but why, if all the work is equally important, do you care about the pharmacists with a tax deduction of EUR 5600 every year,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u63	Mr President! Finland is probably the most limited company-owned country in Europe, but half of the entrepreneurs operate in another form of enterprise. The purpose of the entrepreneur deduction is to encourage work to be done by means of income tax in a form other than limited liability company risk. Entrepreneurship reduction is a well-founded measure as part of a broader package of government measures aimed at promoting self-employment and the initial course of entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurial deduction is also a fair measure in the sense that the position of an entrepreneur in employment and social law is weaker than that of persons in employment. Since this position of pharmacists has been so strongly raised here, as Mr Harakka well knows, practically all pharmacies have a limited company but for the actual pharmacy business, so they have also taken advantage of the corporate tax and the wealthiest ones favoured by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u64	Yes, it must be repeated that half of the beneficiaries of this reduction earn less than EUR 10000 per year. It is such a low income that no tax is paid on it even as much as this high tax on limited liability companies, which was calculated during the previous term of the government and which, I believe, is not being raised by this government. It may be that those orders from Turku Shipyard did not come. In other words, this basic point must be borne in mind that this measure is being targeted and that this money, 75 million, is being poured out on just the other people we want to help. Together, we will make a package of assistance and incentives for low-income entrepreneurs. The small business is close to our heart.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u65	Madam President! In a personal company, the result is progressive because it is taxed according to the Personal Tax Act, so it is quite steep if you think of a pharmacist who has to make more working capital through the result. I would recommend the Minister of Finance — which I think there were two copies here — to try out the profit and loss account and balance sheet at the pharmacy, and if you want to pay more, then there is a need for more capital. In the case of barbers and hairdressers, why not in the case of shoemakers, there is a need for some equipment procurement — just the same way, there must be a result in order to make that investment. If economics says 'not significantly', that does not mean 'not at all'. One operation doesn't solve the whole world. Li Andersson once asked me on some TV show what that single thing would be. There is no individual issue that would create the benefits of this business field so much better that a significant number of current initiatives would be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u66	President! It is true that Mr Lehti raised this essential point, namely that it is intended to strengthen the existing balance sheets, because the employment impact cannot be achieved because the balance sheets are so weak. In addition, this will also channel 20 million to agriculture and 15 million to forestry — yes, they will.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u69	Mr President! This is a useful and necessary debate. It should be said, however, that if the aim is to increase employment by means of this 5% reduction in the tax rate on employed persons leaving as entrepreneurs, then there will be no increase in employment. If a person is first in a pay relationship and then in order to qualify for this 5% reduction, then the number of people employed is probably the same, whether in a pay relationship or in an employment relationship.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u70	Madam President! We have been asked here about the value of this proposal, and I think that this is a great choice of values in terms of the fact that we want to bring equality to those entrepreneurs who were left by the previous government by the reduction in corporation tax by way of tax reductions out of them. However, the vast majority of these entrepreneurs, the majority of whom are affected by these entrepreneurial reductions, are small enterprises. Seventy-seven per cent of taxable profit-producing traders have an annual profit of less than 30000 and this figure is 79 per cent of the passenger company.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u71	Mr President! Thank you, Congressman. The figures for the corners. A lot has been said about these pharmacies now, and an entrepreneur's deduction brings an average of 5700 euros to the pharmacist, but at the same time, pharmaceutical savings cost an average of 27000 euros. That things are always done as a whole. And it is good that the demos are in the opposition, and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u74	Madam President! Here we went to an important point, a welfare society, to preserve it, and I would like to wonder a little about how the Finns of Peru look at the value choices that are now being made in terms of income distribution, that is, there is enough money for the rich. tax reductions throughout the tax line, and at the same time services are being weakened,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u75	Mr President! For the Socialists, I would be in charge of this additional matter of the front. It is an annual amount of EUR 5 — without underestimating the EUR 5 — but the services that the government is now investing in are thousands of euros.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u76	Madam President! Yes, this entrepreneurial reduction is primarily about making these different forms of enterprise subject to equal treatment. I really wonder why these craftsmen, the hairdressers and the physiotherapists, the duvets, the tailors that have been brought up here, are the object of left-wing hatred. It must be noted that in these companies VAT is often an additional tax, as it were, because craft-intensive entrepreneurs have little chance of reducing the VAT. Now you feel that even tax treatment should not be brought to the same level. I think it's incomprehensible. But when I was almost agitated in the last speech about this matter, the words got confused when I had to blame the government for this change in the lower limit of property tax. That's in the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u77	Madam Speaker! Here in a few speeches by the SDP, there has been a desire to encourage entrepreneurs. I wonder how encouraged entrepreneurs are when they have listened to your speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u78	Mr President! Once again, the question of employment was raised, and I repeat the questions raised by the SDP today, here and now. How on earth can we afford to make such favourable tax reductions — so-called entrepreneurship reduction and, for example, a reduction in the taxation of millions of inheritances — at a time when all the sources tell us that they are not expected to bring jobs, create it for growth and employment? No such effects have been or have been proven. Mr Orpo, at least if I were you, I would be very concerned about this, because you yourself said earlier that if there are no jobs, you will have to cut again in the coming summer. That is why it is perfectly justified that we have raised this question from two points of view: whether it will promote employment and whether it will promote a fair distribution of income. And yes, I think quite a few Finns are wondering how there is not enough money.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u79	Madam President! We are having a debate on what is at stake here. This is a question of making this budget proposal, which is before us, the tax revenue that this includes. In order to keep these personal entrepreneurs, with a little less than 200,000, in tune and keep their faith firm that they will continue to employ and bring this tax revenue, and then strengthen the welfare society and this income base — i.e. it is not at all certain that these entrepreneurs will all work unless they make some changes — is this change that will strengthen the faith and confidence and predictability that they should continue and that we will safeguard
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u80	Madam President! October is traditionally the month of the entrepreneur, and there are entrepreneur parties in different municipalities and cities. Last week a national entrepreneur’s party was held in Vaasa, and their greetings were commendable for the entrepreneurship of the government. I believe that in every municipality the speeches will include thanks for this entrepreneurial reduction. The previous government made a reduction in corporation tax. Minister Orpo said that corporate tax revenue did not decrease, but what is essential is that it did not increase the willingness to invest.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u83	Mr President! I welcome this proposal for payment-based VAT because I believe that it will also genuinely benefit low-income entrepreneurs. In addition, the Left Alliance is in favour of raising the VAT threshold, including an increase in the threshold for relief, and we have argued that reduced VAT rates can also be reduced on a temporary basis. In other words, these proposals to improve the position of low-income entrepreneurs have also been made in the Left Alliance. As far as this proposal is concerned, I would like to quote the government's own presentation once again. It perfectly sums up the problems involved in this entrepreneurial reduction: "The proposed reduction is not estimated to have significant business-enhancing or entrepreneurship-enhancing effects. The proposed reduction would benefit the largest number of high-income companies in the euro area."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u86	Madam President! Listening to these speeches on the left side of the hall may lead you to the conclusion that you actually want to increase tax progress and make entrepreneurs pay. There have once been great thinkers on the left side, including Terho Pursiainen, who once wrote about the king’s treasure. He noted the accuracy of this Laffer curve, i.e. when the tax level is calculated, the tax revenue actually increases as a result of the dynamic effects. Why have you stopped thinking there, why do you not believe in these left-wing thinkers, which you still have?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u89	Mr President! For the first time in my parliamentary career, I get the feeling that there are different motions distributed here to the government and the opposition,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u93	And now I would offer Minister Orpo an opportunity to respond. I'll give you five minutes at the most. I'll ask you to go to that podium over there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u94	Mr President! Let us assume once again that, in economic terms, everything cannot be modeled. I am sure that this text of officials is about the fact that this cannot directly demonstrate the imputed impact on employment. in the short term, but it is quite clear that a lower level of taxation in entrepreneurship and employment will increase entrepreneurship and employment. This seems to me to be an indisputable fact, and I therefore believe that if we comprehensively reduce the tax burden on work and entrepreneurship and improve the conditions for entrepreneurship and the conditions for growth and employment, then these measures will lead to a better end than if we tighten the tax burden on work and entrepreneurship. That is why this whole entity defends its place, very strongly defends its place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u95	Well, apparently there's still a desire to continue the conversation. — Representative Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u96	Mr President! There is no difference here about the fact that entrepreneurship should not be promoted and practical measures taken — it is only a question of what is being done. For example, this increase in the VAT threshold would be one that would genuinely help these lowest-income entrepreneurs, which would come directly to their advantage but would not go to those who are making hundreds of thousands of euros at the moment. Similarly, the proposal for a reduction in the remuneration of the first employee specifically supports this enlargement at the very time when it is needed. Now this solution of yours is taking over 70 million, to the most well-off entrepreneurs, and you are talking about encouragement. And there is reason to fear that, now that we have this whole pot, EUR 130 million, Minister Orpo, you will be bringing here next spring proposals for new surgical procedures on the basis of the cut in war veteran pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u97	Mr President! Entrepreneurial deduction is excellent and notable. entrepreneurship, too, thanks for the progress made, one part of the package that improves the conditions for SMEs to operate, and hence employment, and so in the longer term. Entrepreneurial deduction also ensures that companies of different forms are treated in the same way, and this also makes it a question of fairness and an important change to the previous regime, when all new jobs and investments were put on the basis of a single card, i.e. a reduction in corporation tax. It benefited large companies, which, however, had to rely quite extensively on redundancies in that situation. After all, during the last period we left the opposition with a bill on entrepreneurship reduction, referring to the State Economic Research Centre’s assessment that the employment impact of corporation tax is modest in relation to the tax losses it causes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u98	Madam President! There are nearly 200,000 self-employed people in Finland, and I believe that they are all satisfied with this government bill on entrepreneurship reduction. It is important to note that by networking, sole entrepreneurs also employ themselves. This will also provide an opportunity to set up, and encourage self-employed entrepreneurs to start their own business through it and to find employment. The issue of pay subsidies is one of the good factors in facilitating government employment when further proposals have been called for. I consider this to be an excellent presentation, and the same is the belief in the future that entrepreneurs need in particular. Mr President! Mr Harakka spoke on the internal affairs of the committee in his own speech. My question is this: am I right in saying that it is appropriate to appeal to them here in the debate?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u99	Madam President! I think we should encourage companies of all sizes and sectors to grow and employ. Since it has now been said in the speeches by the SDP that this also applies to larger companies, I would like to remind you that, even in the last period, when a corporate tax reduction was made, about 800 million, you have examined what this 800 million is going on in Parliament's information office or elsewhere. Well, it is, of course, targeting the biggest companies, the most powerful of all large companies. They will benefit millions from it. But we supported it together. It is now a question of us, in the interests of fairness, also giving small businesses an equivalent amount of relief. I am very confused that, when it comes to justice, you attack small businesses and condemn them not to succeed in Finland and not to employ them, you must be punished if you employ yourself or others. I find this attitude amazing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u100	Mr President! Firstly, we are not taking away and we do not want to take away support from sole entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs. This is absolutely welcome to them. But still, most of the money flows away. If, Minister Orpo, you really want to help and help the self-employed, who are currently around 200,000, then you will intervene in the red tape they have to go through when they set up and run the business. Then, among other things, you will intervene in the pension insurance of entrepreneurs by helping them to keep this entrepreneurial pension for themselves. That is the most expensive form of pension that one can have in this country. It's gonna take a lot of money. On top of that, you are helping them directly to be able to hire the next employee. At present, however, the situation is that sole proprietors purchase outside services for around EUR 1000 to EUR 5000 per year, so that they do not need to hire the next employee. There is no point in saying that this would create jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u101	Madam President! I mean, this is part of the whole thing. The fact that these partnerships are now subject to entrepreneurship reduction and that they are treated equally by different companies is precisely part of the whole, and add to this the decisions taken on the basis of paid VAT, and so on, plus these red tape cuts, as the previous speaker said, because we are able to create a future faith for entrepreneurs that will continue to be successful in this country. In this country, we're taxing our lot. According to OECD statistics, we seem to be the fourth country with the highest overall tax rate, which means that taxes are collected from different locations. And the fact that we encourage success,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u102	Mr President! I understand the pain of the Social Democrats in this. During the last parliamentary term, you were in power and Finland's debt exploded, public debt exploded, GDP fell dramatically. Investments were on ice, taxes tightened. In the government programme, you promised 100,000 new jobs and became 100,000 unemployed. You divided large companies into large-scale tax reductions and forgot about the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are now receiving an extremely important hand-out from this government in many ways, with this deduction and, on the other hand, VAT on the basis of payment, among other things. We have now achieved economic growth after the long slump you left behind, and we must move forward along this path, in line with the government programme. There is light in sight, and that, of course, is a great pity for the Social Democrats at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u103	Madam President! I do not think that this bill on entrepreneurship reduction, merit or criticism, is what someone receives or does not receive. Rather, it is a reform that guides and encourages a certain type of social development. It has to be said that, in my opinion, every person who employs himself is already a success story. In my view, for every unemployed person who thinks of self-employment or, alternatively, of paid employment, and who feels more attractive to self-employment, this is a positive development. According to Statistics Finland, the number of sole entrepreneurs has increased by 23,000 in this decade. This implies that more and more paid employment becomes an entrepreneurial relationship.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u104	Madam President! Fortunately, there is now a consensus in this Chamber on all the most important issues, and that is that entrepreneurship should be worthwhile. Without it, we are not in a position to raise the land. In terms of economic balance, it would now be essential to create new jobs in the private sector, and in the private sector the determining factors for employment are: whether it is economically viable to hire, and the risks involved in employment. Now that we are talking about how to help entrepreneurship, we should continue to think about how to target this in order to create new jobs for companies. This will also help entrepreneurship, but if it were targeted in a different way, it could be done even more effectively. Now that there has been so much talk of pharmacies in connection with the reduction in entrepreneurial activity: the pharmacists are not really even entrepreneurs, when they are not at any risk of entrepreneurship. The reason why pharmacies have such high incomes is because we pay too much for our medicines because the pharmacy market has not competed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u105	Mr President! With regard to these employment effects, I think it is important for us to be able to employ them, but also to keep them. I myself know many entrepreneurs from Espoo who have experienced that they are no longer able to try, and this is what the government is trying to ensure. Indeed, our government's aim is to make Finland more competitive by reforming the taxation of entrepreneurship, ownership and investment, and it has become clear that the SDP is on a rather different track here. I come from an entrepreneurial family myself, and I really can't understand how people always talk about rich and well-being and envy, but never envy the work, the hours of work and the years they don't have.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u106	We are now getting closer to moving on to the list of speakers, but let us take a few more speeches: Mr Hakkarainen, Mr Heinäluoma, Mr Zyskowicz, Mr Andersson and Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u107	Madam President! Who invests in socialism? International pharmaceutical companies, hospital services and things like this are the only ones that I think go to socialism to invest in. Last season, the corporation tax was reduced, so that money was transferred to that world. We are certainly not now calculating corporation tax, but everything that comes into business through taxation, among other things, must reduce its costs. That's how we get work and work here. Entrepreneurship is the starting point. If we start with what the Social Democrats think: the worse we are going in this country, the better the Social Democrats will be. This is an equation that doesn't change anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u108	Mr President! I feel that when Mr Hakkarainen discovers the aims and essence of social democracy, he will become a good democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u114	Madam President! Here, the opposition has often drawn attention to the regrettable savings that have been made in the interests of pensioners, families with children and students, among others.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u118	Mr President! In his speech, the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, drew attention to a very important phenomenon, namely the spread of entrepreneurial work. Many choose self - employment because it brings freedom to decide their own work, but among self - employed are also those who are forced to choose it. Last week, the Left Alliance published its own package of measures to improve the position of self-employed people, and this group is a cause for concern. According to Statistics Finland, 28 per cent of self-employed persons are placed in the lowest income decile. 46% have indicated that they feel that they pay inadequate pension provision to themselves. What remained unclear was what the Minister of Finance's speech had to do with this entrepreneurial reduction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u123	Mr President! I believe that the outcome of this debate is that, if we now forget these few speeches, which have been most carefully misinterpreted, such as Mr Hakkarainen and unfortunately — a great surprise, a great surprise — Mr Salmon, that the common view is that we must find incentives specifically for small businesses, small businesses working hard. That is what Mr Orpok talked about in his previous speech. You said small entrepreneurs needed encouragement. You said that we must encourage self-employed people, among other things. Mr Zyskowicz said here that we need to find ways of supporting growth, entrepreneurship and employment. Now I ask you, Minister Orpo: these are the fine principles we have now heard and one answer has been missed. If we find a better, more employable, more growth-friendly model in committee, are you prepared to change this proposal? Are you prepared to do so if there is a better alternative to this, which will bring more growth than this option that you have brought here, with which and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u125	Would you like to speak, Minister Orpo? We can do that now. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u126	First of all, I would like to start by saying that the government has chosen the line that we are taking all our measures to increase employment, and we believe that entrepreneurship as a whole is one of the key issues, which is why we have a broad programme of measures. We are doing this as an alternative, now that employment developments are not enough to allow us to make cuts at this stage, but we have a broad programme of measures which will strengthen employment and seek maximum employment rates in order to avoid cuts. A few comments on the reduction in this corporation tax. Yes, I have a strong belief that Äänekoski's magnificent billion-class bio-factory project, the success of Turku Shipyard, countless investment projects in the bio-sector across Finland, and so on, has had a major impact on the fact that this corporate tax reduction was made. In future, we must ensure that Finland continues to be competitive at the level of corporate tax. That was a wise decision, and I am also defending the decisions of a good previous government in this regard. I would also like to say that, when we talk about business taxation in greater detail, the government currently has an overall reform of the business taxation package to consider a working group with a timetable for the end of January. The aim is to make decisions in the mid-term debate. The aim is to look at the whole of corporate taxation — corporate tax, capital tax, dividend taxation, the whole of this — and to consider the need for changes and developments in its shorter term and perhaps even a little longer term. What is absolutely essential is that we transform Finland into a business-friendly environment, and that is what the government is doing. To Mr Andersson, when I talk about this position as a sole entrepreneur, I think that a number of self-employed, self-employed, self-employed, would certainly like to improve their position, and so that we can also encourage it, they must have a view that when they get ahead and make business profitable, they will also be supported. Of course, for those on low incomes, reducing the tax burden on labour will then be the key issue and the key issue that the government has put in their direction. I really hope now that the spirit that has been here, that entrepreneurship will carry Finland — I have heard such a slogan sometimes — will also carry it out of this hall, i.e. that there is now a consensus here from the left to the right. It seems to me that we are divided as to whether or not this entrepreneurship reduction should be targeted at the few most successful entrepreneurs, but I think that it is justified that we encourage growth, try, succeed too, and I do not therefore want and do not want this element to be left out of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u128	And on the list of speakers, Mr Kankaanniemi is the first.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u129	Mr President! I was watching that the previous government raised property tax proportionally more than this proposal is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u132	Madam President! This Act on the reduction of entrepreneurial taxation is welcome and goes in the right direction. However, the focus of the tax deduction should have been higher for the low-income entrepreneur, and it is unfortunate that the impact of this right-hand entrepreneurial deduction is now very limited. The fact is — and I myself have been an entrepreneur for over a decade, and I have had several companies — that EUR 600 or even EUR 3000 does not encourage anyone to hire anyone, that is just a fact. More like this is a mental self-taxe, though quite expensive such — yes to such a 120 million in this situation could have been considered another way to be used. In that sense, although we Christian Democrats are absolutely in favour of this proposal and consider it to be a good one, its focus has certainly failed. Then I find it very unpleasant that one professional group, the pharmacists, is being raised here, as it were, in some way to embodiment of evil, that the income they deserve and the work they do in this country is now worse than the work of someone else. Here Mr Vartia said that the pharmacist is not an entrepreneur at all. I thought it was quite a rhyme. Yes, I understand that if a person invests a lot of money in his life in something to do a job and then at some point gets relief from it — it should not be raised now as if it were some sort of specific manifestation of evil in this law. But this balance within this law has not been very successful.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u133	Madam President! I do wish that as many entrepreneurs as possible today had watched this debate, been able to follow it and have seen how this Chamber views these issues on both sides as well as in the middle. I have to say, this country won't get up with envy. We heard a grudge that a successful entrepreneur would get a little more in his bank account and also prepare for the future by raising money for investment, thereby employing it, thereby continuing to participate in the creation of this welfare society in the form of tax revenue. That is what this country needs now, and this entrepreneurial reduction is one part of this whole, which is what this government is doing with the big, large package of entrepreneurs. Taxation is a whole thing. When we talk about entrepreneurship reduction, during the last period, limited companies received relief in the form of corporate tax relief. Now, in the interests of equity, this entrepreneurial reduction, which concerns private businesses, partnerships, agricultural and forestry entrepreneurs and reindeer husbandry, supports, equals and makes it possible for these companies to act on an equal footing in this society as well. In other words, the injustice that has come between the various forms of enterprise, above all, is being corrected here. We have many self-employed people in Finland, there are nearly 200,000 of them, and it is unquestionably clear that this reduction will contribute to the success and employment of these companies and thus to the improvement of tax revenues for society as a whole. Madam Speaker! There is also inheritance and gift tax in this package of laws and taxes as part of it. Generational exchanges are an issue which has been discussed on several occasions in this Chamber and which has been pointed out that we have companies capable of continuing from one generation to the next. In fact, 10 years ago, when I bought the same farm from parents who bought from their parents 30 years earlier, I would have liked to spend that money on investment, perhaps employing people through investment and making society’s strollers run better. When we have had a relatively tight inheritance tax and gift tax, it has not contributed to investment to the extent that it could. This money, if anyone, helps the development and development of companies, but it is also a relief that helps the way Finns, the custom citizens who inherit property from their parents, the property from which taxes have also been paid several times in different ways. In other words, taxes are a whole and therefore, above all, we must encourage the continuation of activities in all their forms and society's wheels are spinning. Finland is a very high-taxed country, our overall tax rate is, according to OECD statistics, the fourth highest, and there is a lot of talk here about how well-earned people contribute to the financing of this society. On the one hand, we have a very high and sharply rising tax progression to finance this society, which does mean that the more earned income in this society, the more taxes will also be paid, and there will then be tax revenue. Especially for those on low incomes when this is lighter, it also maintains their purchasing power in that regard and brings to the expenses of the whole life the necessary resources for the purchase of bread. But, above all, this tax package is an extremely worthwhile entrepreneurial tax reduction, and we must also mention the payment-based VAT which has already been decided on, which is part of this package which will come next year. That is also a very good thing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u134	Mr President! From the recent debate, I was left with a little thought and perhaps even a problem that, when this reduction in corporation tax was made in the previous period and, above all, it was directed at large companies, limited companies, large capital too, then it would not be willing to correct the unequal position that exists in the various forms of enterprise. In my view, too, this government proposal for a reduction in entrepreneurial activity is justified, because it precisely changes and corrects this unfair situation which we currently have in business taxation. It is also a bit amazing that the question of pharmacies came to the heart of the debate, because in the same way, for example, in the corporate tax reduction, pharmacies with limited companies or lawyers with limited companies benefited from the reduction in corporation tax, but then they are not prepared to bring 150,000 sole proprietors, hundreds of thousands of micro-enterprises, into the scope of this reduction. I think it is quite clear that this is a question of fairness and it is good that the government is making this proposal, especially in view of the overall picture, how, in fact, the vast majority of this reduction in entrepreneurship affects very small businesses. 77% of taxable profit-producing traders have an annual result of less than EUR 30000. In the case of partnerships, the figure is 79 %. As far as agriculture is concerned, that figure is almost 90%. At the end of the last period, there was a proposal to increase the VAT threshold from 8500 to EUR 10000. It is a pity that the opposition did not then have the courage to take it forward, which they have also been here to announce today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u135	Mr President! Today we are dealing with government proposals on tax laws and, among other things, entrepreneurial deduction. Firstly, this entrepreneurial reduction is one of the legislative proposals aimed at improving employment. The government has set a 72% employment rate with the aim of creating 110,000 new jobs. Improving employment is important. A large number of new jobs are created exclusively by small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is therefore justified to improve their operating conditions. During the last term of the Finnish government, a corporate tax reduction was made for limited liability companies. As a result, dividends reached a record high level and benefited these large companies. At that time, the government had the objective of raising the level of investment, but this objective has not been fully achieved. In other words, the aim of this entrepreneurship reduction is to balance the differences between different forms of enterprise, to bring them into line with the tax system. This reduction applies to all self-employed persons and improves the position of self-employed persons. There are currently some 150,000 sole entrepreneurs in Finland, and according to recent statistics, their number is increasing. At this stage of the debate, many speakers spoke of the fact that this would not encourage entrepreneurs enough, but I dare to take a different view. I believe that a 5% reduction in entrepreneurial activity will encourage entrepreneurs to try more and, when it becomes a higher result and income, it will also help to develop the company, and after the development of the company, it will either increase production or increase the workforce. In particular, the SDP seems to have this kind of apothecary syndrome, in which they have spoken specifically about improving the interests of pharmacists. Finland has over 400 limited companies-based pharmacies and the total number of pharmacies is 590. In this connection, lawyers have also been mentioned, and we have almost a thousand limited liability law firms in Finland. As a benchmark, it should be borne in mind that when there are only a few hundred of these self-employed who benefit from entrepreneurship reductions, the number of micro-entrepreneurs, i.e. enterprises employing less than 10 persons, is 265,000, which means that there is a large difference. And it is also extremely important that agriculture should benefit from this. Almost 90% of farms have an annual result of less than EUR 30000, and for this year the percentage may increase. Forest farms will also benefit from this amount of approximately EUR 15 million. In this context, inheritance and gift taxation have also been discussed. The aim of the reduction in inheritance and gift taxation is to facilitate generational exchanges and thus also to promote employment and thus safeguard jobs and then ensure the continuation of its business. In practice, the calculation of inheritance tax and gift tax means that more money will be left for business development and the necessary investments. At the moment, the Finnish Federation of Entrepreneurs regrets that there is no interest in generational exchanges specifically for these successors. Indeed, self-employed people would already like to have a piece of the cake and would like to have a generation change, but unfortunately there is not enough of it to come about. That is why it is important that we try to facilitate generational exchanges by reducing inheritance and gift tax, and it will be shown on all the steps of the tax scale.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u136	Mr President! In my opinion, the most important contribution to the recent debate was not that we know what Parliament — opposition parties and government parties — thinks of this government’s proposal, but perhaps the best contribution was how clearly it came out, particularly through the speeches made by the left-wing opposition, of the attitude they have towards entrepreneurship. I was mildly confused because I thought that, today, all parties understand that if we are going to increase employment in Finland, the only way is to encourage small businesses and companies of all sizes to grow and employ more in Finland. However, the basic idea in this entrepreneurial deduction is that, in the last term of the government, when reductions in corporation tax amounting to approximately EUR 800 million were made and they were directed at companies in the form of limited liability companies, this government proposal now compensates for this tax reduction for other forms of enterprise, partnerships and business names and, in that sense, gives different forms of enterprise a slightly more equal status in terms of taxation. This makes sense, too, in the sense that it does not of course make sense that the central element of the form of enterprise, when it is chosen, is taxation, because these forms of enterprise differ in many other ways as well and it is important that, in itself, one can say that a business name suitable for many situations — i.e. a private business form — or a limited partnership or an open company would be available and not taxably refer everyone to the form of limited liability company. Mr President! In this debate it has also been suggested, in particular, by the SDP, that it would be more efficient to spend this money, which is now being used for this entrepreneurial reduction, for raising the VAT threshold to, for example, EUR 30000. However, I personally have great reservations about this idea because it would create a very large incentive trap for small entrepreneurs. No one should earn more than EUR 30000 in turnover, as VAT would have to be paid for the entire amount. It is better that we keep the VAT threshold at a reasonable level. On the other hand, if something is raised, then the lower limit reduction will be increased, and then the full value added tax will be paid smoothly as the turnover increases. It has also been suggested here in the debate that the entrepreneurs who earn the most are now the ones who are taking this entrepreneurial reduction. If you make a lot of money in euros, you work a lot and you do a good job, then of course such a percentage tax deduction will also bring a tax reduction more for them than for low incomes. Part of this is due to the very strong progress made by our tax system, because, however, entrepreneurial deduction is mainly directed at earned income, which we are taxed with great progress. It is not surprising, of course, that the focus is similar to this, as has been said here, but if we were to do so, as it has been suggested, that we would only aim at the entrepreneurial income of less than EUR 30000, for example, then the result would be a much more radical progressive taxation, which would not, for its part, encourage entrepreneurs to increase their business and to do more or more work. That is why I think that this implementation model, which has been chosen, and the government's proposal for entrepreneurship reduction is both fair and fair between the different forms of enterprise and it is easy to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u137	Mr President! In this Chamber, I have been congratulating the entrepreneur deduction almost a year and a half in anticipation of it, even today, and I still applaud it. I think that is actually the best thing that has been done in the field of taxation this season, because the impact of the entrepreneurial reduction is not just euros, it is precisely a positive signal for the entrepreneurial climate. I believe it encourages entrepreneurship more than it does in money. Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen's government focused its relief on communities, i.e. limited companies and cooperatives, and I do not blame that either. It is important that all business activities receive relief. Today, the reduction in corporation tax of 4.5 percentage points is 4.5 times EUR 211 million in tax revenue, i.e. approximately EUR 950 million on an annual basis. This entrepreneurship reduction is only EUR 123 million per year, so in euros it is a matter of a completely different class of sums, but this entrepreneurship reduction is about half the number of Finnish entrepreneurs, and it is a very important message from the government. This applies equally to business, professional, partnerships, agricultural and forestry operators and tax associations. A minor flaw was left — which could well be corrected here in Parliament by government parties — when the proposal reduced the deductible expenditure on forestry by 5% in the year of loss. This is achieved by a strange negative reduction in the loss-making capital income of forestry. Joint forests were also excluded from entrepreneurship reduction and there was no reasonable reason to do this. Next, I would like to congratulate the Government's proposal on inheritance tax and gift tax, which corrects those blackmails during the time of Prime Minister Jyrki Katainen's government, and they are precisely those categories of inheritance tax and gift tax that are involved in the generation of companies and farms. This proposed change in inheritance tax and gift tax will reduce inheritance tax and gift tax scales on all steps. The focus is on promoting generational exchanges between companies and farms to the first tax category gift tax scale. The lower limit of the gift tax scale will be increased from EUR 4000 to EUR 5000 and the gift tax for the first tax category will be reduced by 1 to 3 percentage points from the taxable gift of EUR 17000 and the gift tax for the second tax category from the lower limit of EUR 5000 to 2 to 4 percentage points, depending on the level. The lower limit of the inheritance tax scale and the inheritance tax stairs will not be changed, but the inheritance tax of the first tax category will be reduced by 1 percentage point at each level and inheritance tax of the second inheritance tax category by tax level, ranging from 2 to 4 percentage points. On the basis of the deceased’s death, the exemption from the tax on insurance contributions to the next of kin and to the estate will be abolished, but in order to eliminate and mitigate the effects of the abolition of the exemption from the death insurance allowance, the reduction from EUR 60000 to EUR 90000 and the reduction in minors from EUR 40000 to EUR 60000 will be increased. In its guidance of 23 September 2016, the Tax Administration considered that the insurance contribution in question was subject to inheritance tax and that the spouse’s deduction could also be granted where the entire tax-paying inheritance of the spouse consists solely of the insurance benefits in question. This is an important clarification, since normally the spouse does not inherit — he will inherit only if the spouses are childless or there is a mutual title test.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u138	Mr President! There has been a good and, to a large extent, ideological debate today on taxation and the conditions for entrepreneurship, and that is, of course, suitable and belongs to this House. I'm glad we've done this. The Government has been determined to facilitate the conditions for entrepreneurship, and it is very important to turn the Finnish economy for the better. In addition to the reduction of entrepreneurs, for example, the smallest companies are about to have access to the payment-based VAT account, which business associations have long been hoping for, and this current government will eventually implement. Admittedly, the Finnish tax system is relatively complex and often quite difficult for taxpayers to understand. The report by the working group on the overall reform of business taxation will therefore be interesting to read. Hopefully it will help to clarify our own tax system. Mr President! A few words on inheritance tax and gift tax. Since 2011, inheritance and gift taxation has tightened significantly, so it is a good idea that scales are now being reduced. In relative terms, the biggest reduction in inheritance tax is in the case of inheritances of a few ten thousand euros, which is very fair. As far as gift taxation is concerned, the ceiling for duty-free donations will rise from EUR 4000 to EUR 5000, which is also a good thing. As has been said here today in the debate, it must be remembered that, in due course, these contributions and inheritances have already been paid quite significantly, for example, income tax and other taxes. And the government's proposal is good here too, as Mr Kiviranta said earlier in his speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u139	Mr. Speaker! That previous debate in the debate was very clarifying. It was very specific about the way in which the left, especially the demari, came to be discussed. It was quite clear that there was a hangover that they were once supporting the fall in corporate taxation and, quite undetectedly, the wealthy and high-income came with very great relief from taxation, and as if they were denying their history, they did not at all defend the line of small cobblers, craters and smiths — today the carpenter, the barber and so on the profession. That hangover now manifests itself as if they were not involved in it when they were fully involved and caused it. Now we have to create the atmosphere that in this way, forgetting their own actions, lawyers, doctors and other such professionals received such an enormous tax relief.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u142	Mr President! In this tax reform, which is now targeted at entrepreneurs, it is estimated that an additional 5% reduction in taxation for traders, partnerships, agriculture, forestry and reindeer husbandry will reduce tax revenues by around EUR 123 million per year. Of this amount, businesses and partnerships account for around 72 per cent, agriculture accounts for 16%, forestry for 12 per cent and reindeer husbandry for approximately 0.05%. Government tax revenues will decrease by approximately EUR 66 million and municipalities by around EUR 53 million and parishes by around EUR 3 million. The question is: can we afford this just now, just in this economic situation, what do we have? Here, in any case, when we look at the amounts of the euro, we are talking about a relatively high-income tax reduction, which, as the explanatory statement states, will remain non-existent in terms of employment. This creates more gaps in the tax base and increases the regulatory burden of the tax system on businesses. Unfortunately, this still follows the line of government friend capitalism by giving tax relief to those who do not really need it, but do not target it to those who need it. Above all, there would be a need for this by self-employed people, some 200,000 of whom exist in this country. They should be targeted so that they can act and hire a new employee. However, their income base is so small that a 5% tax relief does not help to pay or encourage. Instead, if the State could support their entrepreneurship pension side, it would be much more supportive. This amount of money could be allocated to lower levels, cobblers, tailors — craters hardly exist anymore, there used to be them — and now there are hairdressers, now there are beauty salons, now there are masseurs and so on. Small businessmen benefit very little from this reduction on an annual basis, and it would be really nice if under these conditions I did not want to misunderstand things so that I would not have to say that I am so sorry about this. Bureaucracy should be dismantled by small entrepreneurs, self-employed people, that would help them to move forward. Then this property tax thing. Real estate tax was raised already in the current year's budget. This tax is very unfair in the sparsely populated area, in particular. This is a regressive tax in which low-income earners pay tax in proportion to a significantly higher share of their income than high-income earners. In addition, the Ministry of Finance is currently undergoing a reform of the property tax. It is amazing that at this stage the government wants to increase this tax — a tax that once again affects pensioners on low incomes more than anyone else. This applies above all to retired women, namely we have a situation in Finland where women live longer than men, but strong Finnish women want to live in their own home for as long as possible. They live there, even if it's a long way to the store, and maybe they'll have to hang out with a grocery car. They're the ones we're targeting. At the moment, however, it would seem that it might be a good idea to allow the VM to prepare its own change and its own proposal in peace, and perhaps it would be good to consider whether progressive taxation could be used here as well. It might be a little more balanced than this sort of drawn line, which at the moment is. Of course, the fact that taxes are paid less is good for the public, but we must also remember that taxes are the basis of a welfare state. But taxes must be targeted correctly: they must be reduced from those who currently have nothing or who have really low incomes, and then a little more tax could be taken from those who get along despite a slight increase in taxes. In business taxation, this applies in exactly the same way. The fact that 5% is a plus is certainly not yet giving money to hire any new employee, and that is the point where we must be able to provide support and help through something that the sole entrepreneur is able to hire the first foreign worker — even though it must be remembered that there is a lot of work on that side, such as the work of a journalist that cannot be produced, but it is on the head of the one person, and it is doing so, but it is also bread so heavily guaranteed that relief is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u143	Mr President! Now that this debate on raising the threshold for VAT duty has been raised several times in this Chamber today, I wonder why we are not talking about it in the right names and in the right terms. I have once before raised in this Chamber the written question KKV 366/2016, which has been put by Mr Jarva. There have probably been other questions about this in the past. The Minister of Finance's reply makes it quite clear that Council Directive 2006/112/EC restricts this system of value added tax and the Accession Treaties grant Finland the right to exempt small business operators whose annual turnover does not exceed EUR 10000. Therefore, raising the lower rate of duty above this threshold would require a derogation based on the Commission's proposal. Thus, Finland cannot, by national decisions, increase the lower limit of the tax liability beyond that limit. That is what is said in a direct answer to a written question. In other words, Europe, the union must be consulted by the Council for such a measure. If this information is wrong, I think it's worth correcting. That is what the Ministry has said. We will remember the previous government, which, under the leadership of the Socialist Minister for Finance, focused on increasing the profits of rich and large companies in the form of a corporate tax rebate. It didn't turn into jobs. 100,000 were supposed to come, but 100,000 went. The social democrats only had chocolate for a small entrepreneur, and that was only under the scales. In this matter and in the criticism of this tax change, I would rely more on the views of business associations than on the views of social democrats on the usefulness of this for small entrepreneurs. Of course, this is not the only thing that needs to be done for small entrepreneurship, but this is one step. It is also intellectually dishonest to say that this change is not doing this or this. This is just one of the things that needs to be done. Of course we have to take out the red tape. Of course you have to make it easier to try anyway. But this is one step.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u144	Mr President! There has been talk here of the welfare state and its preservation and crumbling, and of what, especially on the left. If we now want a welfare state to be maintained here, that means that business must be in good shape. And as far as business is concerned, its taxation must be reduced from every angle, both corporate tax and corporate deductions and others. This is how you start to come into the cake that you can then share. But the socialists are a little bit like... How about that song? "He puts his hand in my pocket and eats on our bill." So now the debt is being distributed, the debt is being taken from the world, it is being distributed around, including immigration and everything here that brings nothing to anyone. You have to go to the tree from the base, not the top. It is good to spread these things, as Mr Tolppanen mentioned just now: there is progressive taxation. It's good to share them in those squares and squares. But if we go to the business world and put things in order, the rich one is the one who employs. For example, with the salary of a representative, we are unable to employ a minimum wage person. We don't have the net income for that either. In other words, we need to get the entrepreneurship on the basis that there is something to share and not to share until it exists.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u145	Mr President! To begin with, I would like to say emphatically that it is fair from the point of view of equity that entrepreneurship should also be introduced by the companies it missed last season. Let me be very clear. But then we come to things that are a little more problematic. Many times today we have been discussing entrepreneurship and how this entrepreneurial reduction will help the entrepreneur to make a living. I agree with you on this point, of course, and that is a good thing, because according to the survey of Finnish Entrepreneurs, as many as one fifth of Finnish entrepreneurs make a profit of less than EUR 15,000 a year. I would argue that we have become such a new proletariat for small entrepreneurs. When you are easily unemployed, you start a business with optimism, at the same time opting out of pension provision, social security, holiday rights, and pouting with small amounts of money. You might want to remember that we have 170,000 self-employed. Of course, many of them are also more successful, but one fifth of entrepreneurs make lower profits than 15,000. This figure is from a couple of years ago. It has also been said here that this entrepreneurial reduction will help to create jobs. I would like to remind you of the purpose of the company. I'm an entrepreneur myself, and I've done a lot of work in the entrepreneurial world. I believe I know something about trying, and I do not know a single company, not in Finland or anywhere else in the world, which is primarily intended to provide employment. When a business is set up, the purpose is first to make a living for yourself, and then, if you still get something a little extra, that is, to make a profit, that’s a good thing. That is what I think this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u148	Mr President! It is, of course, gratifying to hear from the Green representative of the opposition that the policy of this government is indeed more balanced towards the entrepreneur and thus better for our society as a whole than that of the previous government. In this respect, the Social Democrats, who were prepared to give more money to the interior philiporvar during the last term of government with a corporate tax discount, are surprised, but when we talk about entrepreneurship reduction, they are opposed to the fact that the Kasslerduunari, a modern-day small and medium-sized entrepreneur, is getting more money. This does surprise me and deeply. If you think about the kind of people or what kind of businesses this entrepreneurial reduction applies to, according to Finnish Entrepreneurs, about 80 per cent of entrepreneurs earn less than EUR 30000 per year. With these revenues, this reduction would mean a tax reduction of up to EUR 600. In other words, 80% of those who are engaged in the business are not cigar-rich and exploitative, as the Social Democrats suggest, but rather ordinary Finns who get butter on bread and for the family at the table of milk. Then, if you think of traders and businesses with higher incomes, there would be about 5,000 businesses operating with more than EUR 100,000 in this entrepreneurship reduction. Let's not talk about a very important group in that respect. Mr President! Let me say a little more about this inheritance tax. In this respect, I think it is important to increase the deduction of spouses and minors, that is a good solution, and a good solution is also that inheritance tax will not be collected by way of enforcement in the future and that taxpayers will not be brought into bankruptcy. This, too, is a humane solution. In the case of inheritance taxation, the sensible policy of the government is to facilitate generational exchanges. They have been the Achilles heel in the Finnish business field at the moment, the generation changes of family businesses, and these solutions facilitate generation exchanges.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u149	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Järvinen, for your clear presentation. I'll have to sign that for a very long time, what he's saying. We have now had a very socialist system of taxation, a little bit in the way that until the tax collector separates the soul from the flesh and body, the pit awaits and the debt imprisonment remains. That is what Järvinen said about this, that the dividend was distributed more than ever in the last division, is simply because there is no investment in this country. They'll be distributed in dividends instead of here. Now we are going to get investment started here and then get currency into the country. As far as that inheritance tax is concerned, I will tell you a personal experience from 2002. We had a company that had pretty much a balance sheet, but when the tax bear came along with inheritance taxes and others, we kids got that tax trail from there. Eli has been paid 25 years of tax, earned a little profit — the taxpayer comes and takes it out of the paid property. You have to go to the bank, take out a loan so you can carry on what you've been doing all your life. Is this the incentive to work, such a tax system? If such details on the left could be familiar with or have personal experience, then the sound might change in the clock. It's that left-wing kind of guitar with no bottom: it does play well, and it's being bludgeoned, but there it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u150	Mr. Speaker! I also wanted to acknowledge Mr Järvinen in the opposition. He used the term 'win' in his speech. It is very pleasant to hear the term 'yes' from the opposition. It is largely based on an entrepreneur’s desire, regardless of time, to try to reach some conclusion that he can do his own work where the clock is not viewed but the result is desired. It is very different from the opinion of the demersals, which we heard here in the debat, when, as it were in their history, they have ceased to respect the work done with their hands and — dare not say it quite openly — they now respect the work done with their own brains or with the brain of the movement, including their own expertise and guidance, to obtain tax relief for close trade unions, duty-free to receive a great deal of reward, as we have seen. Of course, this brainwork is a matter of respect for all of us; yes, we want brainwork, but not with such a flagrant self-interest. At the same time, we want to respect the work done by hand, with current professionalism. It's always worth it and it's going to stay. As far as inheritance tax is concerned, Mr Hakkarainen’s example is excellent. That's what I was just trying to say in my profession, when I've been doing a lot of nesting and inheritance-sharing, that's a terrible situation we've had. This will in part be made easier, and it is in line with this overall approach from the government, which Mr Kalli stressed very well in his speech, among other things. It is also what Mr Järvinen said that an overall report is needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u151	About two minutes have passed, I try to knock and point out its stage. In a few seconds, there's nothing yet, but if there's a little more than one second, then I'm gonna ask you to come down here and talk to me. The previous speech did not exceed two minutes in just a few seconds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u152	Mr President! The representative, Mr Hakkarainen, pointed out the importance of getting investments in Finland. The measures that would bring them to Finland are probably the following things that need to be taken after this entrepreneurial reduction, the next steps that have been taken here and on the subject. But at this point, when we are also discussing these other tax laws, I will take a position on this amendment to the inheritance and gift tax law, mainly to reduce the burden. It was probably not the only thing that would have to be changed in inheritance taxation, but it is a positive change because it facilitates the generation of farms or other companies, so that it will be easier to do business for posterity in the future. I would like to ask a question: why on earth do we not have such a strong family business culture in Finland as in many other countries? One of the foundations of the German economy is that family businesses make agriculture flourish. We have just heard news of Turku from Meyer Shipyard: new ships, investments and jobs, but owned by Germany. Do you think the opposition knows that this shipyard company, which owns its shipyard, is a family business? I think it is a good thing that ownership is maintained in Finland. Personally, I do not want us to become a banana economy where all good high-tech companies are bought outwards and there is nothing left in Finnish ownership and control and jobs are therefore at risk. I don't think we should take the bottom off just because we're jealous.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u153	Mr. Speaker! The Competitiveness Pact, the payment-based nature of VAT, the introduction of family compensation, the entrepreneurship reduction are measures from this government which will increase confidence in the management of society and in the whole of this business activity, entrepreneurship, and also bring justice to our system, in particular this entrepreneurship reduction. They do not have a huge impact on the euro, not even on the coin, but the message that comes from Parliament, from the government throughout the country to traders, entrepreneurs — that they are valued, their work rewarded, that they are given fair treatment — is of enormous importance. I believe that it is visible in this society, I hope it will be visible, but I also believe that this will happen. And that is how this deep economic downturn, in which we have been, can really be overcome and brought to the fore, in which we clearly already are. And on this basis, I believe that even the government's ambitious employment objective can be achieved almost completely in this period. Mr. Speaker! Another point that has been raised here is the Äänekoski project, which is of course extremely valuable to us, for Central Finland and for Finland as a whole. The reduction in corporation tax certainly had a certain impact on the start-up of its project, but I would see that perhaps a much greater impact lies in the fact that the main owners of its company are Finnish forest owners. And they want wood to be processed in Finland, and new products are now being made in large quantities from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u154	Mr. Speaker! After all, from an economic point of view, business confidence in the future is one of the most important things, and when you look at the SME Barometer, it is clear from there that, from a long time ago, you can go back years to a situation similar to that in which you are now in, the belief in the future has been greatly strengthened, and yes, the positive decisions that the government has already made so far, which have been listed many times in this debate. They have put the wheels in motion and it is also a question of what the company's profits are used for. Whether it uses them for tax purposes, directly, immediately, or whether it uses them for development, investment and, hence, employment — whether it is a matter of direct business taxation, or a matter of generational change, that is, inheritance tax situations. And that is why it makes more sense for them to transfer those capitals and profits to them for development. It will only increase jobs in a sustainable way; that is quite clear. That has been said many times here, including Mr Järvinen from the opposition. President! It is also a good thing that the government has a project to look more closely at business taxation, and that work is now under way. In this debate, too, there are many good things to be said about it. One food must also be mentioned here, it has certainly already come to light, and it is the way in which these various assets are valued. What is the direction in which the valuation has developed, that is, the valuation of the taxpayer, in relation to what is the real value? And here, too, is the place for consideration at the moment. The real value and the value of taxation must be at some reasonable level, and not at least that the value of taxation is higher than the real value. It is not sustainable under any circumstances. And also that domestic ownership which came forth here,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u155	Mr President! I would also like to comment on this issue of property tax. Of course, the increase in the property tax is problematic in the sense that it is — someone has said — an asset tax that does not take account of wealth — an equal tax that is paid on the sole basis of the ownership of the property, irrespective of the value of the payer, i.e. that it has its own problems. But I would like to point out here that Parliament does not define taxes in municipalities, but only defines boundaries, which the municipality can decide on. You can see the effect here that this would have an equal impact on the equality of municipalities, when richer municipalities, who may have been able to attract people with smaller property taxes — for example, spending limits municipalities — to live in them while they are providing them with services, now have to increase the tax on property and, in a way, the treatment of citizens in the country becomes more equitable, albeit very artificial. But as a means of giving the government and the committee the opportunity to reflect on this draft law: of course, one might think of making property tax an even more encouraging element in some way so as to steer land use and construction in the desired direction, rather than, as is the case today, when in practice money is spent on housing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u156	Mr President! Having listened to this debate, it is nice to note that, fortunately, many parties find this entrepreneurial prowess. Those jobs, as I said at the beginning of the debate myself, have been created precisely by these small and medium-sized enterprises, and there this entrepreneurial reduction is an important thing for many barbers and these small operators, whose income is not very different from ordinary workers, even though they are at risk from an entrepreneur. The Business Barometer referred to here is telling us in a good way that the actions of this current government have been noted in the business field. Faith in the future has improved, but in many respects the situation is fragile. That is why I would like to thank this current government and its ministers for their determination to take these measures now. One thing can be raised from there, but if you look at the whole, the link is that more work, more jobs and more employment will be created in Finland. Long-term sustainability is needed in entrepreneurship policy and tax policy, and this package now includes the adjustment of parenting costs, the payment-based VAT and this entrepreneurial deduction. The things that I would like to raise to the table at the end of this debate are the strengthening of social security for self-employed persons, the local agreement and the raising of the VAT threshold. There will be a significant increase in the number of jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u157	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u158	Mr President! As part of this change in inheritance tax and gift tax, it is proposed that the partial exemption of insurance premiums be abolished. In this speech, I will concentrate solely on this issue. It is therefore also a question of abolishing the partial exemption from the tax on insurance premiums paid to the next of kin or to the estate as a result of death and the corresponding financial aid. It would compensate widows and orphans by increasing the reduction in spouse and minority. Insurance contracts would remain unchanged, and only the tax treatment of profits would change and also apply to old contracts. There are a few serious concerns about this proposal and I would like to see them taken into account in committee in the future. President! These insurance policies have had €35,000 inheritance tax exemption for close relatives, i.e. spouses, children and grandchildren since 96 and a good argument has been that the death of a family guardian in a household with debt and custody liability through children is always a terrible disaster. Living in your own home is at risk, while entrepreneurs or farm entrepreneurs are failing the economic base can at worst fail to pursue the entire business. The wealth to be recovered is often large in euros, such as farms, businesses or large residential buildings, especially in sparsely populated areas. It is practically impossible to convert them into money quickly, and compensation for personal insurance is, for example, one month in an account and has often been used to pay inheritance tax. The alternative is to raise debt or sell other assets. In this context, how can we ensure in acute death situations that this legislative amendment does not jeopardise the position of heirs whose chances of coping with tax consequences are still limited even after this relief? Indeed, it is not always possible to convert the inherited property into money in the time when taxes fall into payment, and it is not possible to convert all the assets into money at all. In addition, it should be remembered that contracts taken in reserve for death have in practice been taken up for two reasons: either purely to ensure that children are able to move forward, or to pay debts to financiers at the time of the death of an entrepreneur or employee in the middle of his working life. In other words, insurance contracts for savings could very well differentiate in this proposal if there is fear of wrong tax planning. Mr President! Tax planning that is harmful to society must be curbed, but this is especially true for ordinary Finns, who are not even particularly wealthy. In order to safeguard the situation of their children and grandchildren, Finns who have financed their savings with wage income have made contracts for death. Life insurance should not be confused with savings insurance. Life insurance is always realised when you die. They are part of important social risk management, in which society must play an encouraging role. This legislative amendment would make a change in principle in society in terms of its own responsibilities, which should, of course, be considered in greater detail. At its worst, it takes confidence to prepare for the future in a long-term way. I would also like the committee to consider whether the abolition of this partial tax deduction right in the state economy is so significant that this change, which affects hundreds of thousands of Finns negatively, is worth making. However, this tax-free advantage has encouraged citizens to take on their own responsibilities for decades. Mr President! I also hope that there will be a complete definition of which parts of the insurance contracts enjoy the principle of the protection of the integrity enshrined in the Constitution. There are now clearly different interpretations of whether life insurance compensation is comparable to contract and integrity. The situation is quite strange in that respect. Of these, Mr President, we should have clear and lasting interpretations of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u159	Mr President! I am talking about some of the same things that Mrs Katainen has just said. I'll start with these insurance benefits for the family. I share the same concern that insurance payments have often been used to pay inheritance taxes. I have worked for a long time in the interests of guardianship and there, in particular, in the role of guardian of minor inheritances — the local register office oversees the duties of statutory lobbyists and special guardians when they manage the successions of another person, in these cases minors, as a rule minors. The situation is often that there is a property, perhaps a car, but not a lot of money — those small deposits then go to funeral expenses and cancellation fees. These may have paid inheritance taxes for minors. These are considered to be underage assets in such a way that they have been allowed to pay such fees. In other words, this is just the kind of concern that needs to be considered in committee. I was also wondering whether this also applies to assurances — and I hope that this will be considered by the Treasury — which have been taken into account as guarantees for loan protection. However, I think they are such assurances, as the government's proposal states here, that they are to be paid to the estate. So I'm wondering if they're going to tax too. After all, they were meant to ensure that the loan would then be paid out in full. I am not quite sure about that now, and I hope that this will be taken into consideration in committee, because I am sure it was not intended that the insurance for the payment of the loan should then be subject to a tax, but if it has been, then it should also be considered whether it is reasonable. The second point I would like to draw attention to is that a provision is added to the inheritance tax and gift tax law that inheritance tax is not collected by way of enforcement for two years. As such, it is a very good thing that there is such a calming down period, because property may be difficult to realise and — as I said earlier — it may be that there are no funds to pay taxes and then you have to think a little bit about how to deal with that situation and how, if there is business there, there will be continuity for it and possibly income for the shareholders. But there's a little problem there. The situation is that the enforcement authority is obliged to notify the Local Register Office if the minor has due payments for enforcement, so that the Local Register Office can take action as to whether the minor has performed its duties properly or whether there is a need for external assistance to look at the financial interests of the minor. This bill now does not impose an obligation on the tax authority to submit a similar notification to the Local Register Office. This is quite significant in the sense that if the inheritance tax is paid on the due date, it is always subject to interest on late payment. And that unpaid inheritance tax can be quite substantial in the end, and of course the minor himself does not know anything about it, he cannot handle it, and it can cause even a significant harm to the minor. Well, of course, the legal guardian is liable for damages for his actions, but it may also be that he is broke, so this will be permanently to the detriment of this minor. This is where I ask the Committee on Finance to take a look at a section which is currently in the enforcement box. In other words, when the enforcement officer is obliged to report to the Local Register Office that there are inheritance taxes not paid, that hey, do you mind to see what the situation is, then such an obligation would then come to the tax office: to inform the Local Register Office that inheritance taxes are due and the legal guardian has not made any payment arrangement and is not concerned about the matter in itself, or to indicate what the situation is that the Local Register Office can take action. Otherwise, it is very good that people are given a period of protection with this issue and that they are allowed to arrange that they do not have to go home and sell. There was quite a lively debate here today about entrepreneurial deductions and many others, but one great thing that was left unspeakable by this government proposal is that a fair correction and correction are being made here on the issue of income tax. In other words, when assets are still transferred, there will be a profit tax on them. Until now, it has been the case that the proceeds tax has been paid on the amount of the difference between the fair value of this property and the profit on the disposal. And if you have received property undervalued, that is to say, with relief, this generation change relief, it has not been taken into account, so that you have received it permanently, so to speak, as a so-called overcompensation. This is corrected here, i.e. in the future the proceeds tax will be imposed in such a way as to take account of the actual amount of the tax, i.e. the actual amount for which you have paid the tax. This too is justifiable to be paid for the real amount.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u160	Mr President! During my first parliamentary term, when there was quite a bit of the same government base as at the moment, the aim was to abolish inheritance tax for companies and farms altogether. It had good goals then, but it then fell into certain technical difficulties. I'm glad these reliefs are being made. In fact, the benefits of inheritance tax have been made in such a way that ordinary recipients of a small inheritance do not actually pay any inheritance tax at all, and now some measures are being taken to ensure that companies and forestry farms also get over this generation. In Finland, there is little discussion about the harmful effects of inheritance tax, and I personally would like to see that debate still under way. After all, Sweden gave up inheritance tax under the leadership of the Social Democrats in 2004 and Norway in 2014. If we in Finland were to come up with the same solution that I actually support, we would lose some 500 million in inheritance tax revenue, and if we made direct use of the Swedish model, which is a model based on the tax on capital gains, it would increase revenue by 400 million. Certain technical solutions would achieve the same return as at present and would no longer have these harmful effects. After all, money is often taken from the company's balance sheet to pay the inheritance tax on the current model in the event of generational change, and it makes investment more difficult and less attractive, and it is reflected directly in the workplace. These are the things that are often overlooked in populist speech,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u161	Mr. Speaker! In the preceding paragraph, I drew attention to these same issues. I agree with what Mr Heinonen said in that it was intended that I too should regret the fact that there was once no such release on farms, and otherwise I warmly support the Swedish model. We in Finland are just such a poor and capital-poor country compared to Sweden that the intention — to continue business on a per-family basis — is seriously disturbed when, due to a shortage of capital, we have to use this inheritance tax and gift tax on the state. Its reduction would be right, in line with the Swedish model, for example, where the proceeds would only be taxed. It produces a little less, but it would also have to be able to treat the pain in Finland in the near future. This current system in Finland, as mentioned by Mr Hakkarainen among other things, interferes enormously with the continuation of the family business in the case of inheritance tax and gift tax in a poor country. And I draw attention to the fact that generational change, it happens with thought or death as a little mandatory, spends so much capital on taxation and the payment of sister shares that time in trouble is the host or hostess who continues the farm, that in what miracle will she find such a wealth for carrying out all these things at the same time. This is a very serious flaw, and I hope, as Mr Heinonen and I have mentioned, that we will have some relief in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u162	Mr. Speaker! Wise speeches have been heard in this regard. Mr Meri spoke from the point of view of his former profession. Members of the Tax Section of the Committee on Finance should listen carefully to what is being communicated here from experts. Mr Hakkarainen also spoke from a practical point of view about what has happened to them with regard to inheritance taxation, and this should not, of course, be the case. Now, hopefully, this proposal will take a step in the right direction at least, but when I listened to Mr Heinonen and Mr Juhantalo's speeches just now, I must say that they did speak of wisdom, that is to say, in the direction of a profit tax or that model, once and for all, they should move on. I understood that tax revenues for the state or for society would even increase in the model, and then, of course, there would be no basis for tax losses. There are no Social Democrats here today; they are obviously not interested in inheritance taxation. They did talk about this entrepreneurial reduction on a huge pottoise, but I think there are already so many of these inheritances on the demo side that they do not want to be involved in this debate. But that's it. Sweden has this model, i.e. inheritance taxation, has moved on to this model of capital gains. Then, on the business tax side, much has been said about the Estonian model, and that would also be a good model on that side. I hope that the government, this good government, in this mid-term review, for example, will look into this issue next spring and take these in preparation and take matters in this direction. I believe that, at least in this respect, the Finns of Finland do not put the tangles on the wheel,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u163	Mr President! We have very many good companies, but we have too few growing companies, and this must be influenced by the attitude of the political decision-maker, i.e. the image of political decision-making and policies. This is relevant to whether there will be enough passionate entrepreneurs in Finland in the future who will be able to take a risk. This draft law now partly reflects in a positive way the fact that it is worth investing more in a growing company, it is worth taking a risk, and this law allows the company to retain more capital and the capital to be used not only to capitalise but also to take the risk it requires to grow. So I shall return to where I started: the attitude of political decision-making affects the spirit of the entrepreneur's passion, innovation, risk-taking, and it is therefore good that we are making it easier for this inheritance tax to change so that more capital is left in the company. It strengthens the balance sheet and allows investments and exports towards the company in the direction of growth.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u164	Mr President! That is a question that comes to mind, and if no one has an answer to it now, I hope the committee will look into it. In other words: When we talk about abolishing the tax exemption for death insurance, what is the treatment of existing insurance contracts if and when this law enters into force? Does the law have an immediate effect on these agreements and the compensation paid on the basis of them or on any transitional period? I'm sure it'll work if you calculate direct tax effects on the law. The fact that the agreements have been concluded in good faith that the proceeds are tax-free will certainly have an impact on the prices and desirability of the agreements, even though this leaves the EUR 35,000 limit and the right of the widow to half the compensation free of tax in any event, which will of course help to mitigate this effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u165	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here — including Heinonen, Juhantalo, Kalli, Kankaanniemi — on this inheritance tax. I agree that it should be completely removed and moved on to the Swedish model. I am not going to follow up on the example that I have not finished, but I am going to give a new example. If we think we should go out and try without a tax troll: If I am a teacher and I have 100,000 euros, and I invest it somewhere, I wonder where I get the best result. There's gonna be a bio-factory in Äänekoski. If I invest in it for a 10-year period of $100,000, I'm pretty sure I'm going to make a profit on it. But if I start a business, I lose. If I am a teacher, I take the same responsibility as an entrepreneur, risk, lose all benefits: social benefits, holiday benefits, everything that comes with normal work. Does this traditional model we have inspire entrepreneurship or investment in international companies? If it makes any sense to an investor, I'm sure he's going to invest in a listed company. But now that the government is making decisions in this direction, the money that we have here will be invested in companies, the courage to take a risk, and at the same time employment will improve and the euro will start spinning in the midst of us. That's where the well-being comes from, and there are those who share it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u166	Mr President! There were indeed good speeches here, there was Kankaanniemi, Heinonen and Juhantalo talking about this inheritance tax at all. At least I get a lot of feedback from people that it is perceived as unfair, it is felt that taxes are paid several times for the same money. I would also like to add what I have forgotten about what I just said — it is good that a representative of the SDP came here today, when it was said that they may not be interested in inheritance taxation, but at least Mrs Harakka is interested. The situation here is that there is also a single parent issue here, given these tax categories. There is now a slight reduction in inheritance taxes, and in practice it concerns widows with possibly underage children. Widows are single parents, and they often find themselves in a difficult situation when the only property is perhaps a home. That this is going to be a relief, but there should be a fundamental debate about this, that is, is this our system at all good? And that is where Mr Mäkelä made a good point about whether there is protection of property, whether it is being violated. This entry into force provision states that if the tax liability has started before the entry into force of this law, the earlier laws will apply, and the tax liability will begin with the death of the person. This will apply to the existing regulations. In that sense, it now comes to mind whether this should then be used in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — at least I did not see that this was being sent there — because there is also this other aspect of this particular insurance, but this is now also the case with these mortgage insurance policies. It might perhaps be a good thing for the Constitutional Committee to see whether this retroactivity is in line with the Constitution, when this will then also apply retroactively to these agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u167	Mr President! There has been a good debate here perhaps on the next steps, and I am very pleased that we have a government base that sees the continuation of entrepreneurship as important in this country. Today we have talked about how jobs were created there and how many people, up to 1.4 million people, can find jobs in these companies. We have some 300,000 companies in our country, but they are in fact becoming 78000 right here in the near future, in the next few years, a generational change or retirement situation. And of these companies that need a new owner, about 30,000 attempts to find a new owner through sales, unfortunately so that the buyer is quite often from abroad. Less than 20,000 current inheritance taxes will find a successor through the generation shift, but as many as 20,000 of these companies have announced that they will stop doing business in this situation. And we know what that means from the point of view of jobs, and it is therefore very positive that support has been found here for the ideas that, according to the Swedish model, we could abolish the inheritance tax altogether. In Sweden this was done by the government under the leadership of the Social Democrats more than 10 years ago and in Norway a few years ago. And hopefully we too in Finland will be able to make this step forward. It is not worth being jealous here, but it is worth thinking about Finnish ownership and Finnish jobs now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u168	Mr President! That is where I said that there have been two tax proposals here in Parliament — two-point friend capitalism. Now we are addressing this second point, namely the relief of inheritance and gift taxation. In this economic situation, where the unemployed and the elderly have to compromise, why should we reduce inheritance tax and gift tax? Why this transfer from the poor to the rich? The government wants to promote the continuation of business in the same family, this is in itself an acceptable argument. However, the government’s proposal indicates that after the relief, the actual tax on corporate inheritance is on average 3.5% of the company’s fair value — 3.5%, 1.6% for farms. This benefit is so significant that it would indeed be appropriate for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to take a position on whether or not equality between citizens is being jeopardised. I quote from the government's motion: "Absolutely inconvenient. " It is easy to agree with this. So the State is donating 58 million because it has been thought that this 3.5% is too much. Unfortunately, the reduction in inheritance tax and gift tax will not even achieve this seemingly objective. There are three crucial errors: 1) few defects in company inheritances will not be eliminated, 2) the tax rate will benefit everyone other than the successors of companies, including holders of a valuable dwelling or a large portfolio of shares, and which is the most serious of all 3) the promotion of origin does not encourage genuine enterprise. First error: If the recipient owns at least 10 % of the company and operates in its administration, only 40 % of the value of the company is subject to taxation. Silly Minister of Finance Antti Rinne extended the payment period to ten years. Prime Minister Sipilä has appealed to cases where relief could not be used. This is difficult to understand, since professional business involves the design of ownership. It is difficult to legislate on a law that governs the family’s activities and even harder to legislate on a law that would prevent errors in the design of ownership. But this is what the government has been trying to do. The main problem therefore arises in the case of the "largest assets" raised in the draft law. And in this respect, the draft law proposed by the government in the summer was logical when it aimed specifically at reducing taxes on the greatest gifts and inheritances by as much as a quarter. It was insolent, but it meant well, but after severe criticism, the government decided to distribute interests more evenly, not only to the most wealthy but also to the wealthy. The result in itself was not changed: the two highest income categories are now receiving the same benefits for their euro of EUR 11.6 million, 40% of the total. Next year, a gift recipient of EUR 2 million will pay a tax of EUR 50000 less. But at the same time, the whole argument of the law was shattered. Now the show is no longer impertinent but useless at the same time. — Unfortunately, my papers are mixed up here, so I will have to continue this speech later, if I still get another one.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u169	Mr President! I would have simply pointed out to Mrs Haraka that I did not say on that very basis why it should be brought to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — thank you for agreeing with me on that, obviously because you said it was easy to agree with this. I am concerned about the protection of property and this retroactivity. But the sum summarum: good if it comes to the Constitutional Committee and Mr Harakka agrees with that. Then I was distracted by this speech: it may be that there are wealthy people here, and so it is that when the inheritance tax scales are changed, then you cannot put such a thing in there if you have a bigger nest — or you can put it there, but you pay a terrible tax. But this whole tax reform is not just from the poor to the rich, but, as I said in the previous speech, there are so many single parents to whom this applies. And I just visited the Young Widows Association, which is for widows who stay in that situation with the children. They are often just ordinary middle-income working people with heavy debts. They're not rich. Here comes to them, to the spouses, and to the children: the deduction of the spouse is increased and the reduction in minors is increased and the tax tables are calculated. I don't know if we should tax them more now. It's kind of a big deal when a spouse dies — it's got little kids. I have met hundreds of these people on behalf of my work at the Local Register Office, where there are thousands of minors under supervision. And I can assure you with certainty that most of them are just ordinary people with normal incomes. They're not rich. It's not the death of a mate that makes a person rich.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u171	Mr President! I think that this proposal, as I tried to say earlier, is trying to influence the fact that many passive companies would become a more up-to-date owner or a more up-to-date entrepreneur who would take the company forward in such a way that it would be able to grow and become a growth company. That is why there are positive steps in this proposal in relation to entrepreneurship. And I said that what the political decision-maker thinks is reflected in the business field. That is why I think we should send out such signals that we are trying to create the conditions by which an existing company can grow and that it can become a growth company and that we are making arrangements such that the balance sheet of its company can be strengthened and investment can be boosted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u172	As I said earlier, the first mistake here, Mr President, was that the justification for the law was shattered. The second mistake is that, in this latest form, the majority of the taxable persons are free passengers. Instead of a company, they receive a valuable dwelling, a summer villa or investment property. The recipient of a portfolio of 0,5 million shares will pay EUR 10000 less tax than this year. It is difficult to understand how this helps companies to continue. However, the most serious and third mistake is that the bill prevents the emergence of genuine blue and white entrepreneurship in Finland. If an entrepreneur is born into the wrong family, he will not survive 3.5 per cent, but will have to pay 100 per cent of the company’s fair value. It is clear that the vegetative domestic ownership best protects jobs, but the Family Federation has compelled everyone to think that only companies in the same family can count as blue and white entrepreneurship. There are significant family companies in Finland, but there are also significant companies in Finland that have been owned by third parties when the family has not been able to continue working. There are far too few of these stories in Finland because the government does not help a smart and poor expert to own an existing company for bold, renewed blue and white entrepreneurship. The situation is complicated by a stronger preference for origin. Even if a family member is not the best follower for the company, the tax advantage will force you to keep the company in the family. It also leads to companies not sparring in sales order and no change of ownership is planned. And as Mr Heinonen said, there are more than 70,000 companies in Finland that are threatened with exhaustion. There is certainly also a business among us that would take off with an unprecedented new, external owner. Should we do something about this genuine problem, for those owners who were not born with a gold spoon in their mouths? Or does the government want to make the best business of birth in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u173	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u174	Mr President! There is really nothing to say about this proposal except that I am a little concerned: I understand that even in this previous law there is this Article 12b, which states that the tax rate for an unconstructed building site is higher in some municipalities in the capital region and that there is a lower limit which is now being raised quite briskly, i.e. from 1.5% to 3%, which the municipality must at least set as a tax base. I think I understand the idea that the capital region wants people to use all these construction sites. But, for example, there are so many plots in the Hyvinkää, Lake Nurmi and Pornainen region. There are unsold construction sites, even at the moment, and At Hyvinkää, we very much hope for new taxpayers. That we do not have so much a problem now that people keep empty the places we have wanted them to be. This increase is a little bad in that sense. I am sorry, though, that there has not been a little assessment of where this should be addressed. I then thought that, when we have a little different housing policy there a little further away from this capital region, it is now being punished that we are just attracting residents on a little larger plot, and sometimes there are such old plots where there is another building site, and then there is a desire to move here from Helsinki in order to have that space. This, of course, complicates our situation so that I am sorry about that. I have not seen any argument as to why this group is the same. It might also be possible to think about them in the light of the actual effects.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u175	Mr President! This will mean an increase in real estate tax in some 125 municipalities, i.e. an increase in the lower limit will force these municipalities to increase the property tax. In fact, I understand it quite well, because when I look at it a little bit, there have also been some messages from many of these municipalities that the municipal economy is not doing so well, and they have nevertheless wanted to keep the property tax down. And when a municipality has been forced to go there quite high, it is justified to try to contain this difference and to consider it reasonable. Of course, if the property tax has not even been within these limits, you can always ask whether all means of earning income have been used from the point of view of the municipality or the city. In raising the lower limit of the property tax, it is often forgotten that it is, of course, directed at the owners of the property, but it is, in fact, directed at all residents. So it's going to be in the rentals. It comes to owner-occupied residents through company charges and others, if it is not a detached house. And this is how it will affect the expenses of every person in these municipalities next year, where that increase will take place. In my view, the tax on an unconstructed building site is justified — by trying to encourage the movement and use of these land. And I myself would like the government to reconsider the idea of introducing an incentive for a specific tax relief if the property is sold, for example, for public building use in the city.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u176	Mr President! The President and I were members of the Government and in the Tax Policy Ministerial Group at the beginning of the 1990s when this property tax system was created. It replaced, as I recall, three separate charges, street dues, an almond tax and a third — even a fourth one — with a better memory of the President — and created this system. Now I do not remember the size of these limits, the lower limit and the upper limit, were when this was put at the beginning, but I do remember that many times the limits have been changed and always raised. This happened during the last parliamentary term, even more was raised under the leadership of the Social Democrats than is now the case with this government proposal, for example with regard to residential property. And it is true, and it is unfortunate in itself, that this goes through all the properties to the owners who collect it, for example, as rent or otherwise pay it with their income, and in this respect it also increases the housing costs of the most deprived people. This line has been in this direction for all governments for twenty years. One question here is these property values. I do not know exactly what the situation is today, but recently the values of real estate were quite flawed, i.e. the values on which the tax base was based did not correspond to their true value. At the moment, for example, in rural areas, when real values of real estate are falling, unfortunately, we must take serious note of the fact that the tax authorities have the right values as a basis for taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u177	Mr President! Real estate tax will be increased to cover only the state budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u181	Mr President! In this case, for the second time in a row, the government is forcing the municipalities to increase their property tax. As early as last autumn, we were very concerned that this property tax would have an impact on the price of housing. It is now the concern of many people in many blocks of flats or detached houses to see whether these obsessions are coming again, and so for the second time: in the second autumn in a row here the government is raising the lower limit of the property tax. And just as Mr Harakka has just said, at the same time, the government is in the process of reforming property taxation as a whole, and that is why, in this situation, we should abandon this double withdrawal, the double imposition and wait for this development of property tax. Of course, from the point of view of the Social Democrats, it is very important that this property tax could also develop in a more non-regressive direction than today, in other words, in Finnish, to take a little more account of income and wealth differences in housing as well. We are very concerned that this double withdrawal, two years in a row, will once again increase the price of living, and that is why we do not welcome this government proposal. There has been a lot of talk here today about the fairness of taxation, and as we have just referred to the lack of money, it is now, Mr President, that, at the same time, the government could afford to make a proposal to reduce the tax burden on millions of inheritances and the government could now afford to bring to this House the so-called entrepreneurship reduction, which, however, is most favourable to the people in the best position of wealth, and the government has had the money to make tax cuts that benefit the most of the high incomes, and then it is said that, okay, we have a shortage of money, we are raising the property tax for many small ones. the problem with the resident. — President! For a moment, I could take it from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u184	Mr President! There are many things that have been said in the Chamber today that are not quite true, and Mr Harakka has now again said that the property tax would go into the bottomless treasury of the state. That's not true, Mr. Magpie. Do you not know at all — the history of real estate tax here has already been described — how it works? Real estate tax is paid directly — it is invoiced by the State and it is repaid by the State — to the municipalities. It produces approximately EUR 1.7 billion for Finnish municipalities. Let us also put this in the Minutes so that this false information is not spread all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u185	Now Mr Heinonen did not really listen to what I was saying. I said there was a deficit in the government's budget. I wasn't talking about whether they came from the state-owned tax department.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u188	Mr President! I thought Mr. Harakka knew where they came from, but yet you told it in such a way that everyone in this Chamber was given the impression that it somehow... Even now you have said that there is a deficit in the state budget, and that is what you are linking this to. This will not happen to all municipalities, this will only be targeted at 125 municipalities for some property tax they need to raise. This has nothing to do with cancelling the increase in daily care fees, but it is one of the ways in which we want to strengthen the local government finances. In other words, this money will in no way compensate for the deficit in the state budget, as Mr Harakka said, but this revenue will come in full, in short, to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u189	This is a rather sublime slander and giving false testimony, and it should be possible to check those parliamentary minutes exactly what I said. The fact that this increase in the property tax now suddenly appeared as a new one in this government's range of means does not prove that this has been a well thought-out action, since Finnish residents have been told that there are sufficient increases in the property tax now, and then, while you had to back off this increase in day care fees, suddenly you came up with the idea that an amount of about the same amount could be found in an additional increase in the property tax. Instead of speaking, if you can listen to what is truly said, you will avoid misunderstandings yourself. In this Chamber, no one else has misunderstood but you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u190	Mr President! The municipalities have extensive control over the imposition and level of real estate tax, and the decisions are largely in the hands of local authorities and city council decision-makers, albeit within the limits laid down by law. One of the aims of this Government's proposal is to increase construction, and therefore property taxation on unbuilt land will be tightened if this government proposal is now adopted here in Parliament in the autumn, and by 17 November these new tax rates will also be determined by the municipalities, which means that this will increase taxation on unbuilt land, especially in the capital region. The aim is to shift the tax focus from income tax towards property taxation, for example, so this increase in the thresholds for property taxation is an understandable measure, but in the same breath I would like to mention my own opinion that the autonomy of the municipalities must continue to be widespread, including in the area of property taxation, since we in this Parliament have already facilitated and reduced the statutory tasks of the municipalities, and we will continue to do so later in this parliamentary term. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank the Government for my knowledge that it is bringing wind farms into the area of property taxation for power plants, as I understand it from the beginning of 2018. It is definitely the right and very morally important measure, given that wind power companies have benefited from significantly high wind power supply tariffs, at least at current levels of electricity prices.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u191	Mr President! Today, when you have listened to this debate again, I must say to the SDP that you yourself are rather provocatively using very strong expressions, such as 'I am so confused' and 'disturbed' and all this sort of thing, and then when you are properly answered back here, then it is slander or the Minister's reply is ugly. That in a certain way it seems pretty funny that even a normal answer is slanderous. But perhaps Mr Heinonen will answer it in more detail himself. I would now like to address just this raging language of the SDP: the millions of heirs and pharmacists and the poor to the rich. I do not know if Mr Viitanen has already entered the Chamber, but I have been working with minors whose parents have died — one parent has died, perhaps both. They're ordinary people with mortgages. They have underage children, they are widows, single parents. They usually have an apartment and a car. Are they the millions of heirs now? This also applies to them. You are now giving the impression that the government has such an idea that we are not directing these laws at all to ordinary people. In Finland, most of the parents of minors that I have dealt with — and I have actually met hundreds of those people — are just ordinary people with housing debts, they are not millionaires. I can't believe this. They will probably be watching the TV with their eyes round that you feel that even their inheritance taxes should be tightened when their mate is also dead. I can't tell you how much I'm wondering about this. And then about listening to me: I mean, I'm not going to hear anything in this session when all the days in this row become such a scream all the time. I wonder who's not listening here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u192	Mr. Speaker! During the last parliamentary term, the government, led by a socialist finance minister, cut the central government shares of municipalities cumulatively by an estimated 5 billion and the debt burden of municipalities, the debt burden of the entire municipal sector, increased from 10 billion to 17 billion. This is what you did to the municipalities, or forced the municipalities into debt by means of central government cutbacks. This led to an increase in the income tax percentage of municipalities, which was raised because of your policy. It concerns income recipients on very low incomes. And in addition to the tightening of taxation, there were negotiations, redundancies, and the services of municipalities were weakened. That was your municipal policy. Really, you also raised the property tax. In your time the lower limit went up more than what this motion, the unfortunate performance itself, now contains. But this is where we were. According to this budget book, the insurance of both the Association of Local and Regional Authorities is that this budget as a whole strengthens the local government finances by EUR 39 million. Not much, but it is hugely more than what happened in the last period when you cut the government shares of municipalities in a cold way, which led to workers being laid off and services being weakened. Now the government allows municipalities to raise property tax, but it forces a few municipalities, which are mainly the wealthiest municipalities in the country, to force them to increase it. That is unfortunate, of course, but this is the way that has been used recently, and you do not have any cleaner papers in this respect than the current government does, quite the opposite.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u193	Mr President! In fact, the opposition, who had left the room for a while, returned to the Chamber, but the phonograph began to rotate a little from the wrong place, in the wrong place. These arguments by Mr Haraka regarding the integration of the property tax issue into day care are quite extraordinary and I would like to hear the arguments. The fact is that the rich municipalities in the capital region and many other urban regions had already made decisions not to increase the fees for day care — even before the legislation had even been prepared — that there was no other group size — while we in smaller provincial cities have no money not to raise them if that were possible. We in Lappeenranta had to change group sizes, we had to abandon subjective day care rights. Even the Social Democrats had no choice in presenting it with the money to be taken from it. We had to think about where to take the money to ensure that the fees for day care are not increased. This is regional inequality, and if this change in property tax can in any way correct it, then it will only lead to a better outcome. Far too many people are already concentrated in the capital region all too quickly, and if this can curb excessive growth, uncontrolled growth and the depositing of areas for the sale of plots and waiting for the rise in value, is that not just a good thing? Is the SDP now for the grynders if this is a bad development?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u194	Mr President! If we were really listening here in this Chamber, you would know that these speeches involve us on behalf of a citizen and a resident, and we are concerned that this forced act by the government will increase the cost of living. This is our concern. I believe that it is part of parliamentaryism that the opposition has both the right and the duty to make criticisms and also its own options. The SDP would not be raising the inheritance tax on small widows or orphans, not at all. But we would be raising taxes on inheritances if someone inherits a million — is there not little room for increase? The government is doing exactly the opposite, as it can afford to reduce the taxation of millions of inheritances. And we have drawn attention to the fact that when a lot is said here that these tax solutions are a whole, now, in terms of income distribution, it always happens that a small person pays more and a large person gets a little easier. The citizens are confused about this, President. I think we have the right to bring it up and to express the concern that we hear in those turbulent and squares when we talk to people. As far as widows and orphans are concerned, it is, of course, regrettable that, in this case too, the government is completely abolishing this duty-free part of life insurance, and it would be appropriate for us, in part, to consider it tax-free. So in this respect, if you will allow me to confuse this choice of values. By the way, it has become a great deal of citizen's feedback, which has considered this aspect of the government's proposal to be totally unreasonable. But as far as this property tax is concerned, I repeat: This increases the cost of living, and this is the second year in a row. The overall reform will take place. Therefore, it would be wise and sensible in this situation to refrain from this compulsory increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u195	Mr President! Mr Viitanen answered them but did not answer my question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u200	Mr President! For my part, I was thinking of taking part in this quality debate on government revenue and expenditure in itself. But just a few words about facts. When we talk about what the impact is, even now, on real estate tax in Helsinki, the capital region or more widely in the provinces: In this regard, the colleague said earlier that the abolition of subjective day care rights in regions, for example, will result in savings. In my opinion, this is a good example of the fact that there has not been a proper study of the impact of the legislation on decisions, in fact it is now in those provinces that, in fact, the savings did not come. But what happened? In fact, it has brought more office work, more bureaucracy and less hands to the care itself, to the care of children. So what do we learn from this? When we make laws when we legislate, we need to know what the right costs are. Well, it's not always about saving money, even if it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u201	Mr President! Of the speeches made by Mr Kankaanniemi this season, you could write such a thick book on the budget book.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u204	Mr President! Mr Viitanen still did not justify his own actions. You were a minister and you were taking forward the decisions I mentioned, and they severely weakened the finances of our municipalities: the municipalities were in debt, laid off and weakened the services. And now we have this government in the hands of what you left behind. And now we have to put the local government finances in order, the state finances in order. Fortunately, there has been a big change. The number of jobs is increasing. In your time, 100,000 were lost. Now the debt is slowing down. Investments have started, and this country is on the rise. But in your time, unfortunately, everyone went down except debt and taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u205	Mr President! I still did not hear from Mr Kankaanniemi why this government is taking on more debt this year than the government in which the Social Democrats were involved in in the last year of the last period, why it is taking on more debt next year than it was taking on at that time. I did not hear Mr Kankaanniemi explain why. Instead, I wonder that when more and more of that debt is being taken over, why on earth can there be room for such value choices in tax policy, there is room for tax reductions for the good. And then we come to the situation — we will see next spring, I hope I am wrong, but next spring we may see the situation — that butter, no jobs, no tax cuts, no employment effects, and then we are in a situation where further cuts have to be made again. This equation is impossible, and I want justification for that equation. And, Mr President, I would like to finish by saying that what this kind of municipal policy is when you think about it from a municipal point of view: Now the Finns and the Government are doing
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u206	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u207	Mr President! I would like to comment a little more on those fortune-telling abilities of Mr Skinner: the long-term effects of the savings now being made before they have even been made, while, for example, in our town, savings are being prepared by officials with official responsibility, and the calculations and implementation of them are being monitored, what savings will then be made from these day care measures in the final analysis, and, if there is any reason to do so, corrective measures will be put in place. But the basic truth is that it is difficult in the provinces when the capital region is blubbering, and the property tax is perhaps a tool for settling this issue. Well, by the way, I wonder what the Social Democrats are saying about these day care issues. After all, the right to subjective day care does not go away; it remains for 20 hours. Don't you even have 20 hours off from your own children?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u208	Well, let us give Mr Skinner a response, although there is only one more speech left. — Mr Skinneri, please reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u209	Mr President! We now have to defend the capital, or Helsinki, and, of course, Finland as a whole. I personally do not necessarily like that kind of confrontation between Helsinki and the provinces either. But, in fact, my point relates to this content itself, that is, how much has been studied, how, for example, such changes in day care affect and how much it actually costs. This is researched data, these studies are conducted all the time. I would urge you to look at these studies if and when such legislation is adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u210	Mr President! I hope that you will link up where the effects of this subjective day care right, precisely this change, have been studied. I'd love to read them. I've never seen them. And I'd like to remind you that this is a decision the municipality may have made. Mr Mäkelä said that in their municipality restrictions on subjective day care rights had to be removed, and I think he said that even those child care fees had to be increased — unfortunately, this is the case in their municipality, we have not had to go there. And it was also good that the government should calculate these lowest day care fees. I will continue with the previous speech: It has been said here all the time that there is no listening or how people are speaking here and why the Finns speak to the SDP this way and talk about the previous one. I mean, life is a continuum. If I say that I am something, then I must also be able to show by my own example that I have always been one. That now, if you think we're doing something wrong, it's pretty strange now that we can't say, "Hey, now you're talking like this, but you're doing it differently." You're talking about debt. Thus, Finland has been in debt since 2008: it was 54 billion, and when this government started, it was 95 billion. Who do you think owes this country? The war had fallen, the Commission threatened us with a follow-up procedure. We've really had quite the chaos in our hands. And I myself have been a municipal decision-maker, and it was pain when — I sat on the city board — every time the budget was turned, the mayor began to say that the VOS are being cut again, that how many of them are being cut. It was so easy to move them and say that no, we just move them there — quite incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u211	Mr President! After all, last season the economy was clearly adjusted and, for example, the deficit fell from EUR 8 billion to EUR 5 billion, that difficult austerity decisions have been taken in the last period. We have also invested in employment, in the youth guarantee, in the care of the elderly, but now they are being scrapped, and we are worried about this and we are very sorry. And so I am still calling for this debate to find no justification for what will then be the consumer protection of its electorate if, for example, we are told before the elections that we will by no means accept increases in the gas tax, and then they will be raised. Or we will not accept the Greek aid package and then the Soini One will be born. And this is what I am calling for in all of this. And that is the right and duty of the opposition, by the way. It was said here earlier that the SDP itself is good to speak because we are very consistent. We have been responsible for government responsibility, we have created a welfare society, social security services, we have been responsible for employment, and that is why we are responsible for the opposition too, when it is our turn to be here, we are presenting our own alternative budget, which, among other things, takes less debt than the government would take.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u212	Mr President! I will also correct the Minutes in case there was some misunderstanding about it that Lappeenranta did not at any point raise those day care fees at the end of the games, but when the bill was in preparation, it was prepared, but the increase in care fees was brought down at municipal level by, among other things, the Basic Finns. Although we insisted firmly on the good government proposal to reduce the fees for low-income day care. Now it will remain in this final performance, and it will be a pleasure to find the money at municipal level. I wonder why the Social Democrats have not gone this way before.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u213	Mr. Speaker! Mr Viitanen will never listen when I have told him many times what happened during the last parliamentary term in debt. Indeed, the government owed EUR 20 billion, time exactly, but the municipalities owed EUR 7 billion and almost completely as a result of the cuts in central government shares. It is not a saving to make another public body pay, to take up debt as if on behalf of another. In addition, when your government started, there were 11 billion, just over, and when the government stopped, there were just over 4 billion. So you ate the state treasury for EUR 7 billion in four years. This too is such a debt-taking, in fact, that the deficit was corrected by eating the cashier. In addition, you did not spend money on the kind of investment that the government is now using. Over the last parliamentary term, the repair debt, such as the road repair debt, increased by several hundred million. Now we're cutting it down. You did not have this billion bill of immigration, which is now going to bring the economy into difficulty. You would like to see an even more loose immigration policy, which would trigger costs terribly. I'm glad it's not happening. In other words, EUR 38 billion was the real, real deficit in the last parliamentary term, which you lost in debt. And state property when you sold another $3 billion, you used it the same way as debt. Such a policy cannot be pursued by a responsible government. This time the municipalities will not go into debt,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u214	Mr President! I wonder if it would be possible to make such a collection of these speeches by Mr Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u219	Mr President! Let us not go on with this for too long, but I will say this again, Mr Viitanen, that I have here an official page of last spring's budgetary plan, page 13, and these figures, which I have just listed, are from this paper, the official government document which you have also had, because you were on the Committee on Budgets to deal with this. We can see the government debt, the debt of the municipalities, then the reduction in the cash register, and also the responsibilities that grew just horribly during the last parliamentary term. They are facts, and there is no need to make a book of them, because they have already been recorded there and are also available from the parliamentary information service and the archives. You should also have them in your head, because they have been dealt with in that committee. Mr President! Unfortunately, the result of the last parliamentary term was that 100,000 new unemployed people came to Finland. They are now becoming long-term unemployed and, of course, cause a bad fall, but your huge debt-taking, tax tightening, the weakening of services and so on led to unemployment, an increase in unemployment, a halt in investment. Now the situation has changed: investment is ongoing, employment is improving, public debt is no longer growing at the rate you were in, confidence in society through the Competitiveness Pact and many others has improved. No municipality is now entering into crisis municipal procedure. During your period there were very many of them and the municipalities raised taxes — income tax and property taxation —
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u220	Mr President! Of course, as a Finnish citizen, I would like the economic outlook to be so rosy, which is what the representative Kankaanniemi seems to believe. Unfortunately, many economists and fortune-tellers have recently said that, unfortunately, it now seems that this deleveraging by 2020 will not happen either. Before that, experts have said that the government will not achieve its employment objectives, that the government will not meet its indebtedness targets. These are all the facts that economic experts have told us. And that is why I am concerned that the overall policy must be such that it will increase employment here and now, and that it will help us achieve economic growth. Then it would not be necessary to do such a bad cutting policy, as the government is doing now, but I do feel that the ideological reasons too, because there often seem to be such a certain insolence in the atmosphere when these cuts are justified by the basic Finns. I shall come back to the original theme of this property tax, as I am sure we will start to take this last round of speeches. In my view, in this situation — and I would also like to ask the government parties to consider — when, in any event, the Ministry of Finance is undergoing an overall reform of the property tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u223	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u224	Mr President! The Finnish life form is based on equal rights that enable each individual to implement himself regardless of gender. The use of masked veils in a public place has close links to gender equality and the individual’s right to decide on their own dress. Article 6(4) of the Finnish Constitution provides for gender equality. Article 7 of the Constitution protects the individual’s right to personal liberty and immunity, which is not to be interfered with without a legal basis. As a result of the avalanche of immigration against Finland, the fundamental rights guaranteed by Articles 6 and 7 of the Constitution have been denied by representatives of certain population groups from third countries, whose religious-cultural outlook does not recognise gender equality in the way in which the common culture and legislation of our society do so. Therefore, the ban on the use of burka and niqab scarves in a public place would be a clear statement by the government in favour of placing the weight of universal human rights ahead of the religious traditions of special groups. The use of Burka or Niqab is not provided for in the sacred texts of the Muslim people, so the prohibition of the use of garments cannot be considered to infringe Article 11 of the Constitution, which guarantees freedom of religion. ) or Article 9 of the ECHR. In Afghanistan, the use of Burka was compulsory for women in public places during the Taliban regime, at the risk of severe punishment. Yet, women still wear a burka covering their whole body in many places for their own safety. On the other hand, the use of the almost completely masked niqab is common in the Arab countries surrounding the Persian Gulf. Mr President! In particular, the jihadist organisation In areas occupied by Isis, women are required to wear double niqab and gloves. The use of Burka and niqab cannot therefore be regarded as a human rights issue in Muslim countries either, but as a requirement imposed by religious standards on women. It is justified to take a more likely view that Muslim women in Finland or elsewhere in Europe do not, as a rule, use the masked veil voluntarily, so that its ban would not violate the spirit of Article 7 of the Constitution. Mr President! In Belgium and France, there is a ban on the use of face veils in public places. In Belgium, a ban on the use of face veils was justified by national security, since the identity of the individual should be made available to the safety authorities. In France, burka and niqab scarves were considered to be inappropriate for secular society and subject women to a fine for keeping burka or niqab in public places. The preparation of similar legislation is currently under way in Estonia and Latvia, and regulation is also under way in many other European countries in this area. At regional level, bans have been imposed in Italy, Germany, Spain and Switzerland. In the Netherlands, the ban on burka is in force on certain public escapes. In this context, the EU Court of Justice has also stated in its new approach that it is the employer’s right to prohibit the wearing of a head scarf during working hours, if this is prohibited in the company’s rules, for example on the basis of safety and hygiene requirements. Mr President! The Government has stressed that it attaches particular importance to the integration of immigrant women and young people and has announced in its action programme a clear commitment from immigrants to the rules of Finnish society. However, our current legislation does not take sufficient account of the threats posed by mass immigration to human rights and to the Finnish customs and legal culture. By prohibiting the use of veils covering the face, Finnish society would send a strong signal that special forms of minority culture should not be above our country's constitution or other laws. The use of burka and niqab scarves should be prohibited from the perspective of the Western concept of human beings and the safeguarding of gender equality by means of a public penalty, as defined in Article 2 of the Orders Act. This bill has been signed by a total of 16 representatives of the Finnish Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u225	Mr President! In many European countries, there is a law prohibiting the use of Burka and Niqab masks in public places. In addition, many European countries are currently considering banning veils. As Mrs Saarakkala rightly pointed out above, in France, for example, these veils were banned as early as 2011 and they could be used with a fine of EUR 150. An even more severe punishment comes from the person who forces another person to wear one or the other. In France, the prohibition was justified, among other things, by the fact that the veils do not fit French society and the country's concept of equality. A woman in the West should have the same rights as a man, including freedom and the right to decide what to wear or not to wear. Unfortunately, the conduct of burka and niqab is not often decided by the Muslim woman herself, but by her relative or spouse. These standards of dress dictated to Muslim women are based on an old-fashioned Islamic patriarchal culture, and the veiling of women is, above all, a strong symbol of female subjugation. Mr President! The use of veils makes life difficult for Muslim women in many ways. For example, it prevents Muslim women from adapting to Finnish society, because many employers understandably do not want to hire someone who is disguised behind the veil. This is particularly true in customer service professions. Indeed, the veil ban would at best serve as a factor for the integration of immigrants. In addition, the veil ban would also help to prevent people who are unwilling and unable to integrate from moving to Finland when they are aware that Finland does not allow women to be subjected to the veil. Finnish society must send a clear message to immigrants: if you do not adapt to Finland, you are not welcome here. If a person considers it a priority to force his woman to wear this demeaning veil, this person must do it in another country, not in our secular Finland. Mr President! Finland must definitely follow the example of other civilised European countries and ban Muslim women's masking outfits. Above all, it is about gender equality and fairness and the right and freedom of the individual to decide for themselves, for example, what to wear or not to wear. The veil ban is also about protecting Finnish society that swears to the names of gender equality from harmful influences and factors that crumbling it. Gender equality is an important part of the Nordic heritage and tradition that we should continue to uphold. Mr President! Freedom to choose must also be the right of women, and that is why I support this initiative by Mrs Saarakkala.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u226	Mr President! In Finland today, it has become customary for a woman to dress as she pleases. Face masking is precisely a requirement for women of certain conservative cultures. It is a visible indication of a lack of equality between men and women. It certainly does not help to wear masks in Finnish society when it comes to social integration. People feel that such a person is alien and closed, and it is challenging to approach him. This, of course, is the intention of men who hold power in these cultures. Traditionally, the reason for masking the face has been shame and obscure intentions in Finland. The evidence of this is the head coverings seen in court with coats and hoods. In demonstrations, disguises for violent purposes are already prohibited by law. The freedom to dress alone is not enough; the veils that cover the face must be banned in public places. Muslim women have no real freedom to choose their clothes if the wrong choice is overshadowed by exclusion from their own community or even by the threat of violence. The present legislative initiative is absolutely welcome and reflects both the Finnish and the general European value base.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u227	Mr President! There are many asylum seekers and other immigrants in our country who will not be allowed to stay. For those who are allowed to remain, it is essential to adapt to Finnish culture and society. The least we can do to encourage this adjustment — even to prevent it — is to cling to narrow-minded or radical practices that do not respect the values of our free and secular Western society. Dressing on women’s subjugated veils and robes is perhaps the most flagrant example of such adaptive practices that are likely to separate them from the majority of the population. This has been noted throughout Europe, and as a member of the Western community of values, we are obliged to include the veil ban in our national regulations. Mr President! It is very much to be welcomed that this bill will be adopted and given the message of what is acceptable in Finnish society. Yesterday was a girls' day. It is our duty to give girls and women in this country the opportunity to have equality even with this bill. This law protects them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u228	Mr President! The prohibition of wearing veils covering the face in other countries is justified, among other things, by the violation of women’s rights. In Finland, however, we obviously know better that it does not hurt, and if it does, it would not be a social issue that is so heavy that we should go out and legislate. Cultural peculiarities themselves must be allowed when they do not infringe anyone's rights, but they must not be allowed simply because the representatives of that culture themselves say that they do not infringe any rights here. Of course, there should be courage in assessing it in society, even in us as parliamentarians. Political and cultural correctness in this respect does not serve the values of Western society. According to the objectives declared by the state itself, the integration of immigrants "means that immigrants adapt to Finnish society and adopt new knowledge, skills and practices to help them participate in the life process of their new home country". In this respect, too, this bill has reasonable objectives. And it seems that only the Finns of Finland in this respect are interested in the rights of immigrant women. The explanatory memorandum to the bill has stated the various points of the Constitution and justified whether or not this question is problematic for the Constitution. I can say that I have not signed the bill since the reflection, and that is precisely the constitutional aspect. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would be happy to judge whether it is said, on a neutral basis — precisely what is the position of the individual's freedom to dress as he wishes — against the position of what are the common values of society that we want to promote. This is something I still have to weigh personally,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u229	Mr President! This bill proposes a ban on the use of burka and niqab scarf in public places. The use of Burka and niqab is not a human rights issue, but religious standards force this. It is not voluntary behaviour then. The aspect of national security is important in this period of time. This has been said in many European countries. Identifying is a really necessary help for the safety authorities. I am also in favour of gender equality and individual rights, and I therefore support Mrs Saarakkala's draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u230	Mr President! After all, as I have said many times, this negative immigration is, in itself, one of the greatest madnesss on earth in Europe, comparable to holocaust and some kind of cultural revolution. It's the mother pig that's breeding little pigs, and now we're catching those little pigs here — we're trying to take them. About a month ago, the East Centre expressed its opinion against the problem of immigration. People who disturbed this event made up a story that the media swallowed with hooks and hooks. I quote from the police press release on the matter: "On Sunday, 11 September 2016, there was news in the media of an assault in connection with a demonstration in Tallinn Square of the East Centre, where, according to information, a pregnant woman would have been assaulted and several men would have committed the crime. The police confirm that an alleged crime has been reported. The police have been in contact with two parties and video footage of the situation has been available. Based on the information now available, it can be concluded that the descriptions of the works in the media are not true." This woman with a foreign background was cloaked from head to toe. The case is a fine example of how you can say and do almost anything about burka’s shields, like a bag on your head or a combopop on your head. That is why I support the initiative taken by Mrs Saarakkala.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u231	Mr President! I myself am looking at this from the point of view that I think it is important that there should be people in public places, in swimming centres, in libraries, in offices, who can be recognisable for this very reason of security afterwards. After all, we have situations where we try to track down who has moved there afterwards. I believe that, overall, it should not be possible to protect itself in such a way that it is no longer possible to identify itself. I think it is important that a woman or a man, a person himself, can decide how to dress in principle. Of course, there may be situations when a person wishes to cover up the veil, and I accept that too, but I do not accept that we in public places should be protected in such a way that, for safety reasons, we cannot identify people afterwards. This bill does not apply to the area of domestic peace, and certainly it would not be possible because of the provisions of the constitution on domestic peace. In any case, I am in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u232	Mr President! This bill, drawn up by Mrs Saarakkala, to amend the penal code so that, in a public place, the wearing of a face-cover veil is punishable by a fine, is very expensive, and I have signed this bill personally as one of 16 representatives of the Finnish People's Party, and many of us are here today to discuss this. The subject has already been dealt with quite comprehensively in this debate, but I would like to briefly repeat a few points that have been raised. This initiative by Mrs Saarakkala would promote equality, especially for immigrant women, as Mrs Saarakkala said well in her opening speech, while at the same time promoting their integration into Finland. Similar legislation is already in force or, at least, in preparation in a number of European countries, including Belgium and France, Estonia and Latvia, and we should also follow this Western European practice here in Finland. It is particularly noteworthy that in many cases women are not allowed to decide on their own dress, and of course this procedure is not in line with Western culture and the concept of human rights, which strongly emphasises real equality between the sexes. And, of course, safety issues must also be taken into account. This proposed legislative amendment would therefore send a strong signal that Finnish society requires all people moving here to adapt to the customs prevailing in our country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u233	Mr President! This bill prohibiting veils can also be justified through identification and security. The person who reveals his face plays with open cards and is, if necessary, identifiable for criminal purposes, both as a victim and as a perpetrator. I would also like to point out that the majority of women who wear a veil covering their faces belong to the Muslim population. However, the sacred texts of the Muslim believers do not make this obligation to act, so it is certainly not possible to invoke religious principles or the defence of religious freedom in the defence of this veil.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u234	Mr President! I don't seem to have signed this bill, but I do think it's a good opening. It is important that this issue is discussed and discussed at this stage before we have bigger problems and questions to resolve. It seems to us that these issues, to which this relates, will certainly come before us in many ways. What is essential in this proposal is that it requires that the face covered become a punishable act. Instead, you get your hair covered and otherwise you get to dress whatever you want. And, for example, in Muslim believers, that covering of hair is obviously a prerequisite, but covering of face is not. In this respect, this is quite reasonable, and in this respect I believe that this is an appropriate amendment to the criminal code. We have had a similar thing in Parliament quite often in the debate, covering the face in court. A lot of people, when they get sued, cover their faces so they can't be identified. And there has been a debate about whether that too should be denied. And I think that perhaps it would be a little preventative and worthy of consideration if the Court of Justice, on its own face, were to bear the responsibility for what they have done. It does not have to be a punishment in itself, but perhaps it would be justified in itself. Mr President, I welcome this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u235	Mr President! European culture includes face-to-face interaction. Once Europe has been moved and sought, customs should also be adopted here. This will also contribute to integration and integration into the general population. One example: how can an immigrant woman who hides her face create friendships with the native population if the opposing party cannot be sure whether the person who masks her face is supposed to be the person with whom she has spoken before or someone else?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u236	Mr President! The left and the green, especially and of course everyone is talking about this equality. I'm surprised they're about to accept the use of burka and the subjugation of a woman. Usually, where Islam is — so-called faith in peace is now called, whatever they did now — women are treated in such a way that the first thing to do is to put a bag of makeup out of their pockets, then a veil on, I don't know what kind of bikinis are, and I'm sure they won't go to the bar. It'll end when you fall for it. But there is talk of equality and freedom. Mr President! Burkat is also a threat to security. If I pull a combo with nothing but eye holes and go to the bank, what happens then? This is the same thing as burka. There must be something more to a person than eyes. And now there are cameras everywhere. Here in the centre of Helsinki, you can hardly get many meters to travel without having a camera on. Cameras can then be used to investigate and evaluate controversial cases or criminal cases. The kind of person you can't see but your eyes, if you can't identify them, let alone find them. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u237	Mr President! Thank you for your support for this bill, and I also see that there are also those who have not yet signed up. This gives the belief that this issue, which is unlikely to be the case at the present time, with 16 signatories directly moving forward on the basis of this initiative, could, however, be taken forward by the government. Yes, the silence I see on these cultural issues here, for example, on the left side of the hall, is striking. Where are the Greens and Left Alliances, when we are talking about human rights, which are so important to them in many other contexts — but when it comes to Finnish culture, it is, for example, a question of many of us wanting to ban the circumcision of young children in Finland and of ensuring the status of women, for example, by putting such veil bans in the law, there is total silence. I cannot believe that this reflects, for example, the views of the Greens and the Left. Is it, then, that the Finns of Peru are the only party to take over this matter as well? That's what it looks like now, but hopefully the government will catch this pitch we share.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u238	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u239	Mr President! The current law of order, which entered into force in 2003, only prohibits interference with disturbing begging. However, it was possible to ban begging in previous municipal regulations. It is inconceivable that no change has been made to this phenomenon that disturbs people and does not belong to the Finnish welfare state, even though there have been at least two legislative initiatives that have tried to tackle begging in Parliament in the past. The number of beggars in Finland has increased significantly over the past few years, and the numbers are likely to continue to increase, which is reflected in the street view, especially in the capital region, but also elsewhere in Finland. Begging is an organised activity and involves trafficking in human beings, child abuse, prostitution and other aspects of organised crime. Criminal organisations, for example, lend Romanian Roma high - rate travel money, forcing them to be beggars, street players and even prostitutes in Finland. According to the Ministry of the Interior, the money received in this way goes to a large extent to organised criminal organisations. Allowing begging in Finland does not reduce the problems, poverty and discrimination of beggars from abroad in the countries of origin, but rather increases them by exposing them to various forms of exploitation. Most of the beggars are made up of people belonging to the Roma minority in Bulgaria and Romania. It is the duty of Romania and Bulgaria themselves to look after their own citizens, not Finns. The residence of the citizens of these countries in Finland excludes these people from the authorities of all countries and exempts the national administrations of the countries of origin from their responsibilities. The fact that we close our eyes to begging for a disguised organised crime does not make this duty any easier. Begging EU immigrants are not part of the Finnish street view. It has a considerable negative impact on the safety and comfort of our cities. According to the police, Romanians are suspected each year of several thousand crimes, including thefts, assaults and sexual assaults. There is also a great risk that some of the asylum seekers who arrived in Finland last summer and autumn will remain illegally in Finland after receiving a negative asylum decision and end up begging for a living. In other parts of Europe, the attitude towards begging has become more negative and the laws have been tightened. The Nordic countries in Norway and Denmark have been subject to various restrictions on begging. The Swedish Government is currently considering a ban on begging. Finnish citizens are very negative about begging, as is evident from various surveys. The increase in the number of Roma in Romania and Bulgaria in our country is a sign that in future beggars will head for countries such as Finland where begging is still legal. In this respect, Finland must urgently update its legislation and remove additional attraction factors. Mr President! The bill proposes that begging in a public place to support oneself should be prohibited by law. Furthermore, begging in a public place for the support of others, such as criminal organisations in the country of origin, must also be prohibited. Section 7 of Chapter 2 of the Orders Act A new Article 4 should be added, which prohibits begging in a public place. The penalties of the Order Act are set out in Chapter 5, Section 16, as a breach of order. A new paragraph 12 should be added to this paragraph, which would allow sanctions for begging in a public place. As a penalty for begging, a fine could be imposed in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u240	Mr President! Begging and vagrancy were still phenomena in our country at the beginning of our independence. I believe that the removal of these phenomena, along with the issue of torpedoes, was a key priority in the task list of our new country. In this first decade of the new era, begging and vagrancy have become another phenomenon. At first it appeared only in our largest cities, Helsinki and Turku, but today the "requesters" are active throughout the country. Today’s beggars no longer travel on foot games and piled on a stick; instead, they fly their new roaring minivans from one city to another. And beggars are no longer malnourished, and they often seem to be in an exceptionally good nutritional condition today. There is a lot of petty crime involved in the phenomenon. Victims are, as a rule, elderly people, who, under the guild of begging, are stolen property even by means of artificial methods that satisfy the description of a robbery. Begging has become arrogant and sometimes even aggressive. I think the latest example is the Yle case dated 11.10.2016. I'm going to read a passage here: "In the Kajaan Church, a professionally active group of beggars—required leaf, food The Kajaani Congregation does not want anyone to be surprised by such a situation. The parson thought the beggars hit the church people in a tender spot. A professional group of 12 beggars confused the church people in Kajaani on Sunday. The beggars who flashed an EU citizen's passport entered the church for church service and called, among other things, for collections to be directed to themselves. The beggars did not come to the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Kajaani in summarily, in an inch by Reverend Marko Miettinen. — — — — A couple of weeks earlier visited the church who wanted help. Then they were helped, and now a group of 12 beggars came to the church at one time who had been very professional. " Mr President! Forest trails stop passing vehicles, and in this way dangerous situations are also caused. Anyone on a road or road vehicle is a road user and, as far as I can see, reckless behaviour may even be responsible for endangering road safety. Such sudden, almost forced stoppages of vehicles are likely to endanger the safety of all road users. In the shadow of beggars from southern Europe, there are housebreaking gangs operating in nearby areas, but also common-spanish common-law criminals. Therefore, begging and vagrancy involve a large amount of hidden crime, which unnecessarily employs police and insurance companies. Mr President! I'm against begging, but I'm not against collecting. There's a difference between collecting and begging.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u243	Mr President! Earlier this week, when I got off the train to the Helsinki railway station, I didn't think I could take many steps when I was dealing with more older women, judging from what I said, from Romania, with a hand out there begging me for money. Their actions were very aggressive, they stepped coldly in front of me and were not going to let me go. This was by no means the first time I have encountered such an unfortunate situation here in the capital region. Well, in that situation I wonder once again that this is really the first impression that Helsinki wants to give to visitors from outside the city — well, this is hardly what anyone really wants. Mr President! According to various surveys, a clear majority of Finns are in favour of banning begging by law. This opinion of the people has remained unchanged year after year. That is why I find it very special that this problem of begging should be debated here in Parliament for parliamentary term after period, even though, in my opinion, there is also a strong consensus among political decision-makers, with the exception of a few gravel votes, that the problem must be resolved. It is clear and perfectly understandable that the problems and mild phenomena of begging and the procrastination of decision-makers in resolving the matter make many citizens frustrated and angry. As early as 2010, the Ministry of the Interior set up a working group to investigate the prohibition of begging. At the time, the task of the working group was to identify possible legislative changes to the order law. Later in the same year, the working group submitted a final report and presented a set of measures, including the following concrete proposals: begging in a public place to support itself should be prohibited by the rules of order. Chapter 17 of the Criminal Code should include specific rules prohibiting the organisation of begging. The law of order should also include a ban on unauthorized camping. Mr President! I wonder why they wanted to bury these excellent proposals in the files and they were never pushed forward by governments. However, each of us understands the reality of this begging phenomenon: begging by beggars from abroad to Finland is an activity organised by criminal organisations. Criminal organisations, for example, lend high - rate travel money to the Roma in Bulgaria and Romania, forcing them to be street players, beggars, pickpockets and prostitutes. The Ministry of the Interior itself has previously stated that the money thus obtained goes largely to organised criminal organisations. In addition to exploitation, the organisation of begging therefore has clear features of organised crime and trafficking in human beings. Mr President! We once again took this bill, presented earlier by Mr Lehdo, in the hope, among other things, that the government would finally take concrete action on this issue. I very much hope that this time this problem will not be buried under the piles of paper.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u244	Mr President! The bill now in the referral debate to ban begging is very much to be welcomed. It would provide the police with preventive tools to intervene in begging before it becomes disturbing and criminal activity. According to surveys and surveys, the majority of Finns find street begging disturbing and embarrassing. However, begging is much more than begging for your life. The intra-EU movement to Finland for begging purposes has been found to be organised and is motivated by various types of crime, such as smuggling, trafficking in human beings and property offences. Earlier this month, the police emptied a camp of 20 foreign Roma from the rescue department’s training area in Sulkavuori, Tampere. They found suspected stolen goods in the area, and the police arrested the Roma as a suspect in property offences and in order to determine the conditions for being in the country. The value of the loot is calculated in tens of thousands of euros, and the stolen goods included supplies and tools from construction sites, wallets and other valuables taken from pockets. The bill is in no way discriminatory, since the law of order would prohibit any begging in public places. Allowing begging in Finland is not the solution to the poverty and discrimination of any group of people in the countries of origin. On the contrary, it gives these countries an easy way to outsource their own problems of poverty and discrimination to us. Among other things, the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the EU was conditional on the improvement of human rights. It is appropriate to ask where to implement this condition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u245	Mr President! The Finnish culture does not include begging now, and we also have good social security, which means that no one entitled to it can have the need to beg for their lives. In addition to its perturbation, this phenomenon of begging is accompanied by the many temperate phenomena already mentioned, including crime and other issues, and it is particularly incomprehensible that citizens of other EU countries should be begging in Finland. It is another sign of the EU's failure to include countries that are unable to manage their human rights situation and social security in such a way that their citizens do not have to wander around Europe begging. I wonder how it is so difficult to put this simple matter in order in this Parliament that it cannot be managed in several periods. It's questionable in terms of the authority of the house. So I am in favour of the bill and I expect it to move forward in the preparation process. The authorities need ways to deal with disorder. Our job is to make their work easier, not to make it more difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u246	Mr President! Excellent speeches have been made here, everyone has been like that. I agree that this initiative must be brought to the end, it must be taken over during this term of government, and the question is, why not, since there are signatories from all the political parties, up to group leadership, at least from the Finns of Finland. So now is the time for action. There is also the fact that, when we are faced with challenges with regard to police budgets, we must come up with these security measures if the development of appropriations seems to be the case now. We also have a resource shortage in social and health care, but we know that beggars receive health care services in Finland, and paperless people also receive services for general-risk infectious diseases. These beggars bring here not only crime but also these infectious diseases. So we have a variety of phenomena that result from this begging and begging. The common sense must now come into the picture, let us not squirm with any right of begging in this matter, when we do recognise what this phenomenon is all about, such as Mr Hongisto, for example, with his very startling example of this. In other words, I warmly support this initiative and look forward to measures — and I call on this government to do so. And it can't be that... Or is it that this matter is, as it were, stuck in a drawer because it is especially driven by the Finns of Peru? In my opinion, the Finns of Finland must now also put pressure on government partners as a group,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u247	Mr President! Since 2004, 10 Member States were admitted to the European Union, including Romania and Bulgaria. When the accession treaties of these countries were discussed in the large committee and its bureau, I was a member there. Congressman Soini was, too. I remember when I asked for a hearing with former representative of the Åland Islands, Gunnar Jansson. He was then an observer of human rights in the Council of Europe, and he came to tell us what the situation is in Bulgaria and Romania with regard to the Roma population. It was shocking to hear, and then we took the view that countries that treat their minorities the way they treat them cannot and should not in any way be admitted to the European Union. Well, that is what happened, however, that these countries were included. The EU only nicely wanted to expand quickly but completely bypassed human rights issues. This is how we got to grips with this problem. Then we may not have been able to estimate that when free movement takes place, those poor people will leave to beg here. But that is what happened, and it is an absolute disgrace to the European Union today that in its territory as European citizens, as EU citizens, there is a group of people who are treated worse than animals in those countries. This is what happened. The fact that these are coming here to beg is understandable in itself, but we cannot accept it. And that's what this bill is all about. Mr. Speaker! I can come back from the toilet — just a minute. [Second Vice-President, Arto Satonen : The representative may continue to speak on the toilet. (Speaker moved to speaking rooster)
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u250	Mr President! Mr Lehdo's bill to ban begging in a public place is quite welcome. As stated in this bill, begging has caused increasing disturbance in recent years. In addition, begging is mainly concentrated in the major cities and their centres, especially in Helsinki, but this unfortunate phenomenon has not been spared by other localities in Finland either. Begging often involves organised crime, even prostitution, which of course the Finns do not accept. This problem stems from the countries of origin of the beggars, and Mr Kankaanniemi has just given an excellent speech about these problems. Unfortunately, the situation often seems to be that Finns in their own right sometimes give a few euros to beggars, to whom they feel pity — quite understandably — but yet, on a large scale, this leads to the arrival of new beggars in our country, because it is in the interests of the organisation that benefits from it. On the other hand, when begging is particularly extensive, tourism, for example, can suffer and, of course, begging is not good for other livelihoods, and this is an unfortunate fact. Legislation on begging has already been tightened elsewhere in Europe, and this must happen in Finland. Mr President! This representative, Mr Lehdon et al. The bill is therefore very important and must also be transposed into our legislation and as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u251	Mr President! If a penalty were imposed on begging in a public place, it could also be collected in Romania. If a person leaves our country without paying a fine, he or she can also be fined there afterwards. Finland and Romania have signed an EU framework agreement on fines, and the financial penalty imposed in Finland can be sent to another Member State for enforcement, and the country of enforcement may then keep this return to itself. And when it is known that begging is prohibited in Romania, I think that even the Romanian State would be happy to accept a fine for it. This would certainly reduce Romanian begging here in Finland when they knew that there would then be repercussions in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u252	Mr President! According to the Ministry of the Interior, as stated in the explanatory memorandum to this bill, begging has become increasingly aggressive in recent years. Each one of us may have noticed this, especially when moving around the capital region. Moreover, most of the money goes to organized criminal organisations, so younger men, for example, then take advantage of these older women in that they make them beg here and then go and collect the profits themselves. There is evidence of this, too. The police also say that thousands of people are suspected of these crimes every year. The most important reason for this, in my view, is that these countries have a duty to take care of their own citizens, especially in the case of EU Member States. In this respect, I quote Ben Zyskowicz from 2010: "The overwhelming proportion of pickpocketing in Finland is made by foreigners, and so someone might argue that the law discriminates against foreigners." Since that is the case with this law prohibiting begging, it is often suggested that it discriminates against foreigners, but this logic is therefore lame. In addition, I quote the Swedish Minister for Public Administration, Social Democrat Ardalan Shekarab: "The aim must be to eliminate begging. That is not the answer to poverty. The solution to discrimination and exclusion in Romania and Bulgaria is not, nor will there ever be, that we have beggars on the streets of Sweden." I saw the Minister of Social Democrats in Sweden in August 2016. There is a very strong consensus in Europe that this form of begging should be banned in public places by law, and that is why I support this bill and I hope that the government parties will welcome it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u253	Mr President! I myself looked at that law of order, and it is, indeed, possible — if I found the section that this bill rightly refers to — to intervene only in this disturbing begging, and that would of course require evidence, and should be involved and involved. So it's gonna get a little tricky. If it itself is already banned in that sense, it will be much easier for the authorities to intervene. Unfortunately, it is also true that there are indications of trafficking in human beings for this very reason, which is exactly what Mrs Elok was talking about, which is where other people will then be forced to do the begging work and, unfortunately, others will receive the money. And that is certainly not the kind of value we would accept here in Finland. This is where Mr Kankaanniemi has made a good point of this EU situation, and I am also very confused that we in the EU at all can have countries that are not really required to do very much, and the rest of us will try to do everything in our power to do so, and we will be threatened by the monitoring procedures of all the world. There are human rights in Romania, as well as - and I mention as an animal-loving person - animal rights in an absolutely miserable state, and I cannot understand that the EU is completely incapable of interfering with it. Of all the other things, there is always a crowd of hundreds of officials. I am glad that the signatories have Finns and representatives of the Centre Party and the National Coalition Party, and I therefore hope that this will indeed move forward. Here were several examples of begging. Every morning, when you take a train, you sell — I don’t know who they are, who they sell — some magazines. I don't know if it's begging or selling, or what it is anymore. And it is a good thing that Mr Hongisto pointed out that there is no desire here to prevent it if the fund-raising permit is used to raise money for different purposes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u254	Mr President! It is sad and distressing to see and see how a person must beg to live. In Finland, beggars are seen especially in cities. They come mainly from Romania and Bulgaria. There is crime, exploitation, misery behind the curtain, and especially in Romania, and in Bulgaria, minorities and also animals are treated undervalued. These people would like to help, but it does not work by giving money here in Finland, but the country of origin must take responsibility and treat its citizens with dignity. If the number of beggars continues to increase, it also means an increase in crime, because there are increasingly abuses around begging and associated with it. Many of our citizens fear the crime of begging. That is why I support the bill that Mrs Lehto has put forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u255	Mr President! Bulgaria and Romania receive more than €2.4 billion of regional aid per year from the EU. I believe that, as long as we are members of the EU, we have a full right to demand that these countries invest in human rights, that they cannot leave responsibility for their people to other countries. Finland must ensure the safety of its own citizens' everyday lives, and banning begging in public places is a step in that direction. There is news from the big cities that people have been forced into the throttle and cramm or that elderly people have been robbed by the Roma gangs. On the pretext of begging in remote areas, easy targets are often sought for looting. A note about the door - to - door Roma have certainly not come by bicycle from Romania to Hollola, for example. Instead, there is greater organized activity in the background. The denial of begging gives a clear signal that such a game in Finland is no longer available. It is time for the very brilliant government currently in power to take action to correct this also.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u256	Mr. Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u257	Mr President! I would like to thank everyone who has signed the bill and I would also like to thank those who have spoken in favour of the bill in this Chamber, because today we have heard many good speeches in this Chamber about why the law should finally be amended. And it is hoped that during this parliamentary term the law will finally come into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u258	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u259	Mr President! I'm going to present the bill I've made for a change of party law. The initiative has been signed by 29 MPs from five different parliamentary groups. The initiative proposes to amend the party law in such a way as to improve transparency of election funding. Pre-notification would be mandatory and would concern both the party, the party association and the association referred to in the grant decision. In particular, operators close to the parties, such as foundations and other associations, which currently operate with considerable freedom, would be more specific. This means that, for example, the number of accounts and exchange services would be limited and, in addition, a supporter of the local community, such as a foundation, could be given more specific reasons by the National Audit Office if the aid exceeded EUR 1500. Mr President! There are a number of arguments for this bill which we Members of Parliament have repeated several times in this Chamber. The current situation has also been assessed by independent bodies. For example, the Foundation for the Development of the Municipal Sector has estimated that the electoral funder will be excluded from publication requirements. According to the Foundation, for example, municipal party organisations spend millions of euros on elections, which are mostly hidden. These shortcomings must be corrected. The current law provides for the exclusion from electoral financial control of those who pass money to local communities or other parties' communities and associations. If the provider of money could also be required to provide an explanation on request, the origin of the money could be more effectively ascertained. The reform of the party law last year corrects some of the specific features of the law, but there is currently no clear solution for determining the origin and recycling of money. In addition, the problem remains the so-called local communities, which can be used as bulvans for the recycling of electoral money. The amendment would improve the transparency of election funding in such a way that election costs should pass through bank accounts or exchange services under the supervision of the National Audit Office. The restrictions proposed in the initiative would also apply to party associations, and support and funding for the election campaign could only be used through the above-mentioned bank accounts or exchange services. Possible payment cards and electronic systems should be connected to these services. The voluntary nature of prior notification to parties, party association and association referred to in the grant decision does not serve the principles of transparency specific to election finance control and therefore the current voluntary practice would be made mandatory. The bill proposes to amend Article 9a(1) of the Party Act, Article 9b(4), and a new Article 8d would be introduced. This new article would also apply to the various switching services that have come with electronic funding. This amendment would significantly complicate the commervents and chaining of different accounts. Mr President! It is important to bring legislation in such a way that the electoral financier is not excluded from publicity requirements. I therefore hope that Parliament will take a positive view of my legislative initiative. I hope that there will be a good debate on the rules of the party law and election funding, across the party borders, with a view to action.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u260	Mr President! The amendment seeks more transparency in election funding, so transparency would be improved. In election funding, prior notification to the party, the party association and the association referred to in the grant decision should not serve to increase visibility, but should be mandatory. Since I am in favour of transparency and transparency in election funding at all levels, I warmly support the Elon bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u261	Mr President! I am also in favour of this initiative by Mr Elo, and that is where we will now be dealing with his second initiative on electoral funding. I myself am also a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and I hope that this will be a good debate there and elsewhere. It is time we had a more extensive debate on this precisely because these funds have been very much out of hand. It's a little unclear what election funding is. There have been many kinds of issues in public, and citizens need to know more about them. Personally, I would also like to see the subject raised, and perhaps we can speak with Mr Elo in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, also because of the next legislative initiative, that it would be good now to consider the compulsory prior notification of the candidate himself. Now that the election funding announcement need not be made except when you have been elected, then the old ones will not be notified. Let me take, for example, this family of Antti Rinte. After all, according to the press reports, his spouse received approximately 33,000 euros of election support from various trade unions and, as I recall, Antti Rinne about 20 thousand. Well, now his spouse has not made this prior notice, at least I did not find it, and when he has not been elected in the parliamentary elections, this will be forgotten. That it would be a good chronological list to look at where a person has received support from — many would be interested. Of course, it may affect voting behaviour, but in the interests of transparency I do not know why not everyone does so. That it is still something we could discuss with Mr Simon Elo in the Constitutional Committee in connection with this package of legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u262	Mr President! I would add to my introduction that in the Turun Sanomat case of 29 January, the National Audit Office itself also admits that election money may still remain in the dark and that it would be appropriate for them as an agency to increase their powers of inspection. In the same case, researcher Jaakko Eskola says that control could still be improved if there was a political will — that, of course, is what I am looking for here with a legislative initiative. He also points out that it would not necessarily be necessary to have additional resources to improve this control in itself, that is to say, it is mainly a question of operating methods, practices, legislation, rather than the need for more people to carry out this control. In other words, if the criticism I might suspect will come, is that whether there is enough money for this or whether it pays a lot, then at least according to researcher Jaakko Eskola there would be no need for additional resources, and the National Audit Office will be ready to introduce such additional powers if it is politically justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u263	Mr President! Now I am looking at this next bill by Mr Elo, and that is where he seems to demand this compulsory prior notification — brilliant, brilliant. Then we will be able to deal with this in the Constitutional Committee. And I'll let you know in advance that I'm in favour of that, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u264	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u265	Mr President! This second initiative also concerns electoral funding. When the former touched the party and various associations and foundations and their spending in elections, this bill focuses on amending the candidate's electoral funding law. The bill has been signed by 34 MPs from six different parliamentary groups. On the basis of the bill, a so-called campaign ceiling would be set for all general elections. This means that success could not be bought, but that there would be clear limits to spending money. The pre-notification would also be mandatory for the candidate himself. The common intention of both legislative initiatives would be to enforce such an obligation throughout the party field. The amendments to the Act on the election funding of the candidate were justified in line with the Government's previous proposal. The supervision of the use of party support, i.e. state aid under party law, was transferred to the National Audit Office, which was a clear improvement and reallocation of resources. However, in addition to the transparency of election funding, improvements are needed to the candidate's electoral funding law so that the flexible use of the resources of an individual candidate or of those supporting an individual candidate does not obscure the basic principles of democracy in the eyes of the public and affect too much the results of the elections. Mr President! The political message should always outweigh the weight of economic resources and other available resources. At present, for example, prior notification of election funding is voluntary and the campaign ceiling for election funding has not been set in other respects than for individual supporters. However, there may be so many individual supporters that the total cost of the election campaign can increase by up to EUR 100,000. Such sums tend to obscure the public's perception of democracy. In order for everyone to have equal opportunities to succeed in the elections, this arms race must be stopped in some way, and I am glad that indeed six different parliamentary groups have come to support this initiative. As far as I am concerned, it seems to me that a unified view is that something needs to be done about this, but, as in so many cases, it is only a matter of time ago that something should be done. This bill and doing it came to my mind when I visited the United States in the spring, where, of course, the presidential election is now taking place, and there I asked the local congressman, the local MP, how much it took for you to get to the U.S. Congress. He smiled and replied that a million dollars should be in his pocket, otherwise you shouldn't even leave. It pales, Mr President, my EUR 37,000 in the constituency of Uusimaa, which was in fact slightly higher than average on the Finnish scale. So I am not sinless in not spending money myself, but I try to get rid of sins by doing the law together so that this much money does not have to be spent. That is why the bill proposes to set a clear and justified ceiling for the overall funding of electoral campaigns, i.e. a so-called campaign ceiling. In the draft Act, the upper limit for election funding would be EUR 7500 in municipal elections, EUR 15000 in regional elections, EUR 30000 in Parliamentary elections and EUR 60000 in European Parliament elections. You can see in these amounts a certain logic of how they go. Of course, the first criticism is that different constituencies, different spending structures — can you put the same? Oh, because that's when everyone's on the same page. There will be no difference then in the case of the candidate within its constituency. Another criticism is that, with money then, an unknown candidate can in a way buy familiarity and in that way make the game fairer compared to the person who is in a way known. Mr President! I dare say that the present situation benefits already wealthy, well-known and seated parliamentarians, namely those who already have a name that already has money. I personally do not believe that there are so many cases that had no name, but money was found and money was then able to smooth things out. I don't believe in this myself. This criticism was expressed, among other things, by representative Ben Zyskowicz when this election funding was discussed earlier. Mr President! Finally, researchers Erkka Railo, Mari K. Niemi, Sini Ruohonen and Ville Pitkänen, who wrote the 'Competition for Power' book, are in favour of a Euro-denominated campaign ceiling. In my view, there is very strong support for this campaign roof both in Parliament and among researchers, and especially among the people. As in so many things in Finland today: it would only take the last touch, that is, a joint decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u266	Mr President! I think the funding of the elections has gotten out of hand. Representative Elo here presented the campaign ceilings mentioned in his bill. They feel really good. This is where the municipal elections, the regional elections, the parliamentary elections, the EU elections went, and these borders look and feel really right. I do not think there is any free election support, perhaps from a close relative or a family if there is a good relationship. When companies and associations support the election financially, it is hard to believe that it would be done without waiting for a counter-service. As Mr Elo said here, the political message should be more important than money. With all this in mind, I warmly support this legislative proposal by Mr Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u267	Mr President! The initiative is in order. Of course, those euro amounts are quite large — although Mr Elo says it is good that they are the same everywhere — at least in Central Finland. Well, you can't talk about yourself now when you have a long career in the past, but last time I spent 8,000 euros, and actually I spent far too much, almost 8000 euros too much. The starting point is very different in different situations. On the other hand, in a small constituency, the threshold to reach the ten is high, but it is good to have one provincial magazine where conveniently when you advertise, you get it, and you don’t have to burn 60,000 more. Mr President! Of course, the starting point should be for the candidate's knowledge, skills and tested citizenship to be the basic starting point and then his values, his ideas and his programmes to be the ones that would solve, rather than the amount of money that is available to him, to be determined, as is unfortunately pretty much the case now. That is why such a border could be quite in place and I have signed this initiative. One thing I would like to raise is that, as far as I understand it, neither the candidate's electoral law nor the initiative has now presented a penalty if you give false information or fail to provide the information. Then, if there were reasonable or even a little high threat of punishment, I'm sure honesty would come along and be better. We remember the famous words of a representative who said that it is in this system, when there are no penalties, that this law does not have to be observed. Now, if we could go to these tight limits,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u268	Mr President! I'm sure it's true, as Mr. Elo here pretends it's good to have some kind of roof. And it is also true what Mr Kankaanniemi said there that the situations in the provinces are different from one another. If I think about this New Land, we have dozens of magazines, and when there is almost the same group as the owner there is not much price competition so that it is the price that is and it goes. There are a lot of candidates here and, of course, you have to advertise a little, especially if you want to get out of the unknown. It is always desirable to have new people here too, to have some new ideas here and to have a genuine chance to try. However, it is precisely that — sometimes in the public domain — such people have taken a huge debt and, in it, a bit like a moped out of hand, that they do not know how to set limits on themselves — I understand, of course, that this desire to get away is hard. And this could prevent it, so that no one would go into such a shocking arms race now, it is not worth the debt. I myself put 22,000 and tried to comfort the self-employed that I bought from all domestic entrepreneurs, all printed products and blackkets. I would probably have gotten them cheaper elsewhere, but I was glad to be able to support a domestic entrepreneur. My election funding was in line with my own savings, and then my brother’s company and my parents gave me the money. It is so that whose bread you eat, its songs you sing. In that previous speech I spoke about the importance I attach to the announcement, and especially to the prior notification and its compulsory nature, because if you cannot, it will then remain forever on this sort of thing as I remember it. For example, I took this family of the SDP, Antti Rinte — they are massive election support, tens of thousands for the same family. That it would be all right to keep them well in books and covers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u269	Mr President! It is known that many good candidates do not go to the elections when there is no money to spend. It is a family to support and does not want to risk the household of your own family, and then we will not go to the parliamentary elections, for example. I spent about EUR 11,000 myself, and I thought it was quite a lot. It was a pretty big risk to put that much money on the line. But that's what you had to do with a small budget to figure out what that money is really spending on. And then, the more money there is for advertising, the less the candidate then goes to the people. That that candidate has to be there with the people, and he shouldn't be able to get away with it. That's what this is all about. A very good bill from Congressman Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u270	Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank you for your contributions and point out that, in itself, it is not dishonest, let alone criminal, to receive financial support for its campaign. It is also part of normal Western democracy: to support the ideas, candidates and so on. Of course, it is about what the rules of the game are and how transparent and transparent it can be. And, unfortunately, at the moment, although much improvement has been made since the so-called electoral money was made in legislation and practice, there is not yet enough transparency in the legislation in this respect. I would also like to highlight what Lauri Tarasti has said: in itself, legislation can never be completely complete, it always leaves room for a person to be dishonest and to act wrong, no matter how good the law is and how good the practices are. But I still believe that this campaign ceiling and this mandatory advance notice — so that people can see before the election day, before the vote gives their vote, what support this candidate has received, where money has been received, because it too inevitably affects, of course, or at least tells us of the candidate's views on different issues — would make a substantial contribution to the current situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u271	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u272	Mr President! In this bill, I propose to amend the law on public access to the activities of the authorities. The scope of the Publicity Act would be extended to include companies and other entities governed by the law in order to obtain information on the authority’s documents. By means of an entity owned by an authority, I refer in my bill to a legal person governed by private law in which the authority exercises control as laid down in the Accounting Act on a group company. In practice, therefore, it would be primarily companies owned by municipalities and the State alone or as a majority owner. There is a great need for this bill and the changes it proposes. In recent years, municipal activities in particular have been significantly consolidated in almost all Finnish municipalities. The background to this development is in part a previous change in the Local Government Act, which obliges municipalities to take over their activities in a competitive market. It has become apparent that the purpose of the Publicity Act has been circumvented by the municipalities on purpose or without meaning. When the municipality operates as a business, for example, it is governed by the Publicity Act, but if the same activity is transferred to a company or a foundation, it is no longer covered by the Publicity Act. Current developments reduce democracy, transparency and genuine accountability. My bill aims to ensure that individuals and communities are able to control the use of public authority and public funds, to form their opinions freely and to influence the use of public authorities and to control their rights and interests. Mr President! I described the background and main content of my bill. I will now go into more detail on what is being proposed in my legislative initiative. The initiative sets out a model for the exercise of publicity through the company's own authority and its authority. It would be the task of the Authority to obtain the requested documents on the basis of the ownership status of the company. The documents could also be requested directly from the company, but if the company considered that the documents were not public but were subject to a cryptographic basis in accordance with the Publicity Act, it should refer the matter to the Authority. So this is what a public authority would always do. Another possible model would be that the request would always be addressed to the company and would carry out a public examination. This model could, in some cases, be simpler and resemble what Sweden is currently using in the Publicity Act. However, it would remain unclear about the responsibility of the decision-maker when the decision-maker does not act as a public authority. A representative of a private company is not subject to a sanctioned obligation to comply with the law, unlike an official who may commit an act of intent or gross negligence in breach of the law. However, there is an initiative to exclude listed companies from the scope of the Publicity Act. This means state-owned Fortum, Neste and Finnair. The stock exchange company has very precise rules on what information the company can give out. For example, any information affecting the share price must be made public in general if it is disclosed to a third party. In practice, the application of the Publicity Act to these companies could create insurmountable problems. Mr President! Many Members of Parliament have also received a second legislative initiative on this same subject for signature. It is initiated by Mr Kärnä. What is the difference between the initiatives taken by me and Mr Kärnä? Of course, Mr Kärnä's aim is very commendable. In legal terms, it has been implemented by means of amendments to the law on limited liability companies, which would refer to the application of the law on publicity to public limited liability companies. The difference in scope would be that, according to Mr Kärnä's initiative, it would also apply to listed companies but not to foundations. In the case of Mr Kärnä's initiative, publicity would therefore be carried out directly through the companies. The request for documents would be addressed directly to the company and the company would conduct a public examination. In this case, it remains open to the company or its representative whether there are penalties, for example, for intentional violations of the law. The decision-making and appeal procedures would also require more detailed regulation. Decisions by the authorities are laid down in the Administrative Law, which does not apply to undertakings governed by private law. A procedure should therefore be laid down for such an undertaking to draw up a decision which is comparable to a decision of the authority which is subject to appeal. The decision on public access to documents shall be appealed to the Administrative Court. It would probably also require further legislation in the event of an appeal to the administrative court against decisions taken by private companies. It is problematic that the amendment should be made to the law on limited liability companies. In such a case, it would not be possible to establish the true scope of the public service law, but would be contrary to the addition of the law on limited liability companies. A more successful solution, Mr President, with regard to Mr Kärnä's model, would be to add a change to the law on publicity, not to the law on limited liability companies. As a whole, Mr Kärnä's initiative would therefore require more legal text and at least amendments to the law on publicity. In any case, I would like to thank Mr Kärnä for his initiative and diligence. Any route leads to the desired outcome, the better. The number of signatures received by legislative initiatives shows that Parliament has the will to increase transparency and democratic control over the activities of the public authorities, regardless of the form and legal structure in which our common funds are used.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u273	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Haraka, for the timely and good initiative. I would like to state the basis for all of this, which comes from the Finnish Constitution and its Article 12, which says: 'The documents and other records held by an official are public unless their public access is restricted by law for the necessary reasons'. The same point goes on to say: "Every person has the right to be informed of a public document and of a record." So this is what the Constitution says. But how, in practice, is life in Finland? As Mr Harakka described, we have problems in practice. I think one is an attitude. The second is education, i.e. whether we have genuine knowledge. And the third is perhaps also the lack of a sanction procedure mentioned by Mr Haraka. In other words, I think the question is very much the same as, for example, in the case of a procurement law, which is in itself a good existing law. So do our communities have genuine knowledge of how to deal with the Publicity Act? Do we know how to answer or not to answer or to obtain information? The second thing, of course, is what business secrets say. I would like to say here, as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, that this bill does not mean that business secrecy should be violated either. Let us also say this in the interests of clarity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u274	Mr President! The problems of transparency in the use of power have recently been raised, for example, regarding Western Metro and the new hospital in Espoo. For example, Yle asked for the Western Metro Protocols to be read, but the request was not accepted even though the company is owned by taxpayers. Jyrki Vehta, a member of the West Metro Government, argued that these documents had not been originally written on the basis of their publication. This also shows, of course, that there is also a major problem in practice. The law was changed or not, so it can be considered that the law on limited liability companies does not in itself prevent the owner from already pursuing better and more transparent disclosure practices, i.e. the practice itself could already be changed. But I agree with Mr Haraka — and Mr Kärnänk’s initiative, which I have actually signed — that the law should also be clarified in this regard. In any case, we could begin by sending a signal to these companies at present that it would be good for their own interests to change the practice in a more transparent way. As an Espoo City Councillor and taxpayer, I dare say that Länsimetro Oy’s activities in this respect were not in the interests of Länsimetro Oy, nor of the city and its taxpayers. The unfortunate blow has also come to the reputation in this respect, and I hope that lessons will be learned from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u275	Mr President! This is a very topical matter, and I believe, or actually I do know, that the government is preparing for it. At least it has been discussed in the context of this regional and social reform. If and when there are more incorporations, these questions will have to be considered. Of course, it is good and important for the government to make such a proposal. That is what I expect and expect in this context, and it would then also apply to all publicly owned companies that already exist. There are already quite a few of them, and the EU, for example, has required the incorporation of certain activities. This has been the case in many municipalities, among other things, and the state has also had them throughout the ages. Recalling the old ones again, this publicity law was being prepared in 1998. Until then, we had a law on the secrecy of documents, and then the situation was changed and Lipponen's first government put forward a proposal for publicity legislation. I was on the Administrative Committee and it was discussed there, and it was a difficult, big and difficult motion in many respects, but at the end of the parliamentary term we took it through anyway. Now it has to be said that although it has been changed somewhat over the years, it has largely worked very well. It has just come with the development of some of the needs to change. But now the situation is that these companies have become so many that there is a need for change. The second option is indeed that of Mr Kärnä's bill. I think we should think about this side by side. I think one initiative goes to the Committee on Economic Affairs and the other to the Committee on Administration. We should now think about how to proceed, but hopefully the government will put forward a proposal which will then go where it will then be dealt with and adopted, as the initiatives generally do not.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-12-ps-99.u276	Mr President! As a representative of Uusimaa and with the support of the Espoans, I can say that it is precisely for the reasons mentioned by Mr Elo that it would be very important to clarify the law here. In the case of the West Metro, it has proved difficult to draw the line between the law on limited liability companies when it comes to the strict interpretation of the due diligence obligations referred to in the law on limited liability companies and the equal treatment of owners. While municipal decision-makers become members of the boards of limited liability companies, sometimes the responsibility of the Companies Act is not quite crystal clear. I hope, of course, that this bill will also clarify this.
