ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u1	The 2nd issue of the daily order is the topical debate on asylum and integration policy in Finland. The debate will be opened by Juho Eerola, the first signatory of the discussion initiative. The next item is Mr Orpo, Minister of the Interior. The other speeches shall be reserved by means of a P button and shall not exceed 2 minutes. I will give the floor in the order in which I am considering it, and I will also, at my discretion, give the floor for a reply of 1 minute. Let's get this conversation started. Congressman Eerola, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u2	Mr President! "At present, Europe is under unprecedented migrant pressure These words will begin the immigration policy programme for Finns, which was drawn up at the end of 2014. During the summer and autumn of last year we had to witness the release of this pressure throughout Europe all the way to Finland. I do not want to be hindsight, but we would not be in this situation if Finland's immigration policy had been put in place during previous governments. There would have been better use for the money that we are now spending on this matter. Finland’s immigration policy has been extremely naive on a European scale for years. The ease of family reunification, humanitarian protection and the lax interpretation of the foreign law have made Finland the desired destination for asylum seekers, not to mention the generous social security system. Warnings about the problems of the policies pursued have been heard deafly. For years, Finland has been underestimating critical ideas about immigration. In turn, our proposals have been regarded as contrary to international law and, in turn, to good taste. Mr President! Now, in the debate on asylum policy, new winds are blowing. Until a year ago, the idea of scattered asylum seekers throughout Finland was condemned. Now such considerations have become mainstream. A concrete example of a change of direction has been developed in December by the Government's asylum policy action programme. It will put into practice all the measures we have called for in the past. The conditions for family reunification will become stricter, the possibility of humanitarian protection will be removed, and social security for those who have received asylum will become consideration. Finnish asylum and integration policy has become Finland's asylum and integration policy. People are finally listening to me. It is great that also representatives of the Rinne and Lindtman has supported this development. With the authority of the party and the chairman of the parliamentary group, you have shown that the Socialist Party also supports the Government's asylum policy programme and, in particular, its proposal to tighten up family reunification. You have finally chosen the path of responsible immigration policy. Of course, it would have been better for Finland if this awakening had taken place earlier. Madam President! The government's policy on asylum has been exemplary and responsible. In addition to domestic reforms, the government has actively contributed to finding a European and Nordic solution. A good example of this is the Nordic Council meeting in October, which sought a solution. The flow of asylum seekers through the Nordic countries. At the meeting we made sure that Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Löfven understood that the passage of asylum seekers through Sweden to Finland could no longer continue. Even Finns have not had the habit of letting anyone pass through our country without permission to Sweden. About a month after the meeting, Sweden and Denmark started border controls. This decision helped our foreign and domestic ministers to communicate with the Swedes and the Danes. Mr President! Let us not forget that the change in the direction of asylum policy was not just forced last autumn. For example, extortion of family reunification was agreed on a year ago in the Government Programme. The proposal is now in Parliament and will be put into effect as soon as possible. In the future, a family reunificationist is required to be able to support his family, and I hope that the government will not waste time bringing into force the remaining tightening of the family reunification directive. In fact, the first steps of Finland's new immigration policy were taken before the government negotiations. In March last year, the right to urgent health care was overthrown by Finns living in Finland and by Kari Rajamäki. In the current situation of asylum, you cannot avoid thinking about the costs that Finland would have taken if that decision had not been taken. According to preliminary data, the Finnish Immigration Service will make at least 25,000 asylum decisions during this year, a large part of which will hopefully be negative. Some of those who have received a negative decision will remain in Finland illegally. They would also have been entitled to urgent care in the future. Fortunately, now the spike is not open in this direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u7	Madam President! It is true that Finnish immigration policy has changed in the last less than a year. A major change starts from the fact that, on a European scale and on a wider scale, the situation of immigration, the situation of refugees and its phenomena changed radically about a year ago. Last year, between 1.1 million and 1.3 million asylum seekers arrived in Europe, depending on the method of calculation, but this is an enormous amount compared to the previous one. Compared to the population of Europe, it may not be that great, but if you bring entry to Europe, entry into Europe, is out of control and comes on illegal routes and organised by smugglers, that is the problem, the situation is out of control. This has led to various challenges and problems in Europe, between European countries and also in Finland between Finns and asylum seekers, between asylum seekers and a wide range of challenges in the sustainability of our system itself, both the Finnish system and the European system. Yes, the government has acted in time. Last autumn, at the end of the summer, when we were the target of a large, uncontrolled entry, we began to work decisively in time and in a day. We kept building a picture of the situation and drew conclusions and measures which then led to the composition of the government in the form of an action programme for asylum policy, which contained more than 80 points in which a broad range of views were taken on this phenomenon and its management, the reception of these people, the handling of their affairs and the subsequent measures. Finland’s asylum policy can withstand comparisons with other countries. We currently have 22 national and 8 EU legislative projects. We set up some 200 reception centres in the middle of the biggest migration wave in the fast run, we managed this whole with the help of the organization centre. Of course, we have stepped up our border controls at the eastern border, it is clear, but also at ports, at airports, where we have managed to control the situation at national level. However, it is quite clear that as far as migration is concerned, Finland is dependent on what is happening at the European external borders. We were able to find a solution to migration from the East with Russia, but what happens in the future is largely resolved in the Mediterranean at the moment, in the implementation of the agreement between Turkey and the EU. It must be found the means by which it operates in compliance with the rule of law, but above all by breaking up uncontrolled entry from Turkey to Europe and at the same time improving the conditions for refugees in Turkey and their refugees in the countries of origin. High pressure is currently at the heart of the Mediterranean route. Above all, migration pressure from Libya to Italy is increasing. It is perhaps worth noting and aware that it is at least different in its composition at the moment: the arrivals are mainly from countries south of the Sahara, the countries of West Africa, whose security situation is not such that it is very likely that they will be given asylum in a European country or in Finland. It is not expected that those who come from these countries will continue their journey, for example, to the countries of northern Europe. All in all, however, the root causes of migration, of refugees, have not gone anywhere. There are countless wars in the neighbourhood of Europe, which is quite a broad concept today, there are crises, terrorism and extreme poverty. In addition to this, there is a highly organised network of tens of thousands of smugglers who organise trips to people with a promise of a better future, which is easy to grasp when there is no prospect of the future in their own country. Ladies and gentlemen, please. What is important now is that we can deal with the issues of these people who have come to Finland in the last year, effectively, fairly and firmly, so that Finns believe in the system so that they can accept what is happening. In addition to that, we must be determined to target those people who are given asylum, and in this context the government has today published an integration policy programme, which I am sure the ministers present will tell us more about. Key actors are the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, OKM and the Ministry of Local Government. For those who do not receive asylum, we must act effectively and return them to their countries of origin. It is an effective return policy that is part of a credible asylum and immigration policy. Moreover, action in the European Union is essential. There will be solutions to our future, and I will return to that in the forthcoming speeches. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u8	Then let us continue with the two-minute speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u9	Mr President! Firstly, I must say that this debate is an excellent initiative. We need to have a wide-ranging immigration and integration debate. All in all, the government programme also calls on us to do this. It is excellent that such an acute crisis has now been managed. Overall, the government has acted strongly in this regard. We have taken very different types of measures on a periodic basis. There has also been progress on this side of the legislation, and I think we can say this at the moment that the specific attraction factors we have had in relation to immigration have been removed and we are very much at the same level as the other Nordic countries. The Minister rightly said in his speech that it is important that the whole is under control. In practice, this means that we must have control of the whole world, both in Europe and in Finland. In the long run, however, we must also remember the fact that if the Finnish economy is to be maintained, we need immigration in Finland. We need immigrants in Finland who are supporting Finland's growth in the future, and this integration is, of course, extremely important. We need a long-term integration programme, a long-term perspective for those who come to learn the Finnish language, learn how to act in this society, understand the morals of this society and so on. Today, as the Minister said, new integration policies have emerged. In fact, for the minister this kind of long-term question: are the integration policies now in place that we can handle in the long run into the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u10	Madam President! This is a very important opening-up of the debate, and it is worth thanking the government for taking action. If we had prepared for this kind of mass movement at an earlier stage, we would have survived with much less damage than we have now. However, we can be pleased that we have finally taken a spoon in a beautiful hand and recognised that, without decisive action at both European and national level, we will not be able to cope with this kind of movement and that this kind of integration will become a very difficult process in all European countries. It is essential to note that, when cultural differences are considerable, in order for integration to succeed successfully, it requires that we also keep the amount and pace of change reasonable in such a way that we have sufficient resources to ensure that the people who eventually come and remain here also have genuine conditions for integration. This is in the interests of both host societies and migrants themselves. We must be able to ensure that the people who remain here are also genuinely able to experience the security of this society for them, and this requires that we also have sufficient awareness of the kind of people who come from here. This requires a controlled, smart policy. There is a gradual shift towards this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u11	Madam President! Integration and integration are long-term work, and we have a good group of comparisons in other Nordic countries. If this is not going to end during this government, but there may still be new major migrations, then perhaps it would be justified to think about this quite parliamentaryly, so that all parties would be involved somehow. Social Democrats have made their own integration programme of this kind, with more than a hundred different proposals and opportunities for action, and they have already been made in previous terms of government, but there is a great deal of concern at the moment with regard to municipalities. First of all, municipal compensation, state subsidies for them, because the level has fallen — is there an increase being made? Is it possible that, with a different number of years for quota refugees and asylum seekers, which is being replaced, it could be harmonised? Would it be possible to oblige all those who now have a place of residence in reception centres to begin their so-called pre-integration at the reception centre, starting at an early stage, even though not all of them may, and probably not, be staying in the municipality? Now we have one more such practical problem. When municipalities are not equipped to register them as residents of municipalities, according to the location of the reception centre, without an agreement with the Ely Centre, without an integration plan in the municipality, then suddenly there will be unsolicited and unexpectedly perhaps dozens, hundreds of new residents.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u12	Madam President! There are very good proposals in the Government’s integration programme, but it is regrettable that the government’s tough policy, especially the cutting policy, is working against these good objectives in many ways. For example, severe cuts in education are fatal, especially for children and young people with an immigrant background. Instead, I am very pleased that Sanni Grahn-Laasonen, Minister for Education and Culture, has announced yesterday that he will launch an action programme against hate speech and racism. I would like to warmly thank the Minister for this operational programme. I feel that this is the first time that someone in the Finnish Government this season admits that we have a problem with hate speech. Especially in such difficult times, when unemployment rates are high and severe cuts are made, it is often the case that it is those who are weaker in society and the minorities who suffer for no reason at all that hatred, resentment, bitterness turn against them. And that is precisely why I am sincerely happy and, on behalf of the Greens, I would like to express our warm thanks for your serious response to hate speech and racism. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u13	Madam President! It is important that we discuss here how we are better able to integrate those who have received asylum and other immigrants. There are too many false claims, rumours, outright lies in society that are being spread in the name of anti-immigration. When you listened to Mr Eerola's opening speech, the only thing that came to mind was that when all the promises have been betrayed, when every promised thing that was promised before the elections has been sold out, the only thing left is the anti-immigration that has been put on the beautiful word of immigration criticism to hide how everything else has been deceived. Madam President! Fortunately, however, there are also parties in the government who understand that we must seek solutions, not blame. We must start when asylum seekers come here to Finland, integrate and train them immediately. Most — some — receive asylum, some do not have asylum, but it is important to start from the first day in order to integrate those who remain in Finnish society. Family reunification is also very important. If you are afraid of your own family, the future of your own family, integration is made easier by the fact that your family is together. Care must be taken to ensure that many immigrants and asylum seekers are trained in their own country, how they can be converted as quickly as possible so that they have access to work corresponding to their own training and skills. It is particularly important to tell about Finnish law, respect for laws, Finnish culture and the fact that women are equal in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u14	Mr President! I dag står ricksdage inför en actualitetsdiskussion som gäller våra värderingar och överlevnad av humanismen. Det förvånar mig något att sannfinländarna kan stå i talarstolen och vara så glada över att vi blivit tvungna att inskränka på flyktingarnas rättigheter. Det kan ju inte vara någonting som kan bereda dem en särskild glädje. Det är fel tid att försämra aylsökandenas rättsskydd. Identifieringen av utsata, som till exempel offer för tortyr, våld eller männisikohandel måste även nu kunna kunnas igen och få hjälp. I ett lage där många nya jobbar med asylsökanden försvåras identity av offer ytterligare. Ingen usatt person, allra minst barn, ska skickas tillbaka till you give land. Våra värderingar står verklgen på spel. I vår skuggbudget föreslog svenska riksdagsgrupen en ordentlig stegvis höjning av flyktingkvoten. Just nu tar vi estrot många aylsökanden, Vilket motiverar kanske en något lägre flyktingklot just nu, men på lång sikt för att hjälpa manniskor som har det svårt föreslår vi en höjning av flyktingkvoten till 2500 årligen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u15	Madam President! The Finnish authorities, the police, the Border Guard, the Finnish Immigration Service and non-governmental organisations must be thanked for the tenfold increase in the number of asylum seekers over the past year and for the honour of these first steps. But the most significant government error in the last year has been the EU decision, in which the Finns of Finland are also involved: internal transfers of asylum seekers from one country to another. Firstly, it is a decision which has not even worked in practice. Its effect was to accelerate the activities of human smugglers and that uncontrolled international migration. Instead, we should and should continue to invest heavily in the controlled reception of quota refugees, where those refugees are taken directly from refugee camps and placed in municipalities. In that discussion initiative, Mr Eerola said that it would be better for people receiving asylum to spend money on their integration than on unnecessary applications. Well, this would be better, but the government does exactly the opposite. For example, the integration resources budgeted for this year – which I hope Minister Lindström will comment on here later – are totally under-represented in the need we face. In other words, the number of people requiring integration has tripled. And knowing that we do not already have integration as it should, the challenges are really great. It could be a big bill for Finland if that integration fails. For example, the big concern is that the National Audit Office's research
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u16	Mr President! Indeed, as has been said here, the municipalities will then do the most important work in this great process, and I think that the municipalities of Finland are doing a good job anyway. Well, of course, it has to be said from the past, for example, that these emergency accommodation units were not yet able to be negotiated in advance with the municipalities, but, despite the sudden situation, the municipalities worked hard. But now that we are considering this six-point government integration programme, it can be said that once again, yes, the municipalities will continue to work hard, and this work will certainly be enough, as we know that the integration process is only just beginning for many, and it is still difficult to assess the situation of asylum seekers in the future. It is quite clear, and I am not surprised at all that the municipalities are looking for an increase in these calculated compensations. So that's what I want to ask Minister Vehviläinen about how to secure the resources of the municipalities. Then there is another point to note — as the Minister for the Interior well knows, when last autumn this situation was very large: the Finnish public authority system was tested immediately and thoroughly, in particular PTR cooperation, there was also MPR cooperation, and NGOs were actively involved in their own efforts. Thank you for that. And from it was concretely seen this good and effective operation of the Tornio Organization Centre in practice. I would like to ask the Minister for the Interior: has there now been any new lessons to be learnt from this, which makes these sometimes modest resources more efficient, although it can be said that the resources have also been good, but if we look at the actors in the field of internal security and their activities in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u17	Mr President! The human civilization will ensure that people in need of protection are helped in all situations. I think it was well defined from the Minister of the Interior, Mr Orpo, that humane, fair, rigid treatment is the basis for everything in asylum and integration policy. In this new exceptional situation, it is important that the situation remains under control, just as you described there, Minister Orpo. The SDP has supported and supports a policy in which this sense of security and control of people is maintained by the right measures and by a rigidist. We need sufficient authority resources to keep people's sense of security. The immigration authorities must have sufficient resources, police and border authorities. The administrative and judicial processes must function properly. There must be sufficient resources there, so that, in this situation where people who need genuine protection and then on other grounds — quite acceptable in themselves — people who are moving in the hope of a better life, there must be the difference in order to help those who genuinely need protection. We also need sufficient Nordic cooperation, and I hope that Mr Soini, who is currently hosting the Nordic Foreign Ministers, will also raise this point, that we need Nordic solutions in asylum policy and integration policy. It's very important. As far as integration is concerned, I think that this is where the government may have failed most so far. There are actually quite common features when I suddenly looked through your integration paper, and I hope that you will go through the SDP option, 156 or 160 sets of measures. I'm sure they'll find food for the government. Mr President! I would like to say that it is very important that national consensus be found on issues like this, in the context of the integration of the asylum seeker. This will be a phenomenon that affects more than parliamentary term, and in this respect I support Mr Paatero's initiative to create parliamentary preparation for this situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u18	Madam President! This debate has already shown that the political parties are very much in agreement on the line taken in asylum and integration policy over the past year. Of course, there are small differences of opinion, but the main line has been that of supporting government action. Last year, as we all know, the number of asylum seekers nearly increased, and the government has been exemplary in international cooperation on this issue too. But for those who have come to Finland, it is obvious that we must demand that the people who come here live here in accordance with Finnish law, and these issues of equality are one of the key issues here. As far as internal security is concerned, there have been different mild phenomena throughout the country over the year, which has, of course, increased the fears of citizens. The police, the protection police and the Border Guard have all stretched to the limit in combating these mild phenomena, and we must thank them for the work they have done. The resources they have had have not increased to the extent that their duties have increased, and this is something that we must also pay great attention to in the future. This integration will be a long process and will require good cooperation between municipalities and different organisations, and integration policy must be made more effective, and I believe that it will become more effective as experience in different municipalities, cities and organisations will also increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u19	Mr President! There is a real need for people who are fleeing from war, persecution, torture, suffering, women and children who are confined in those muddy fields, fenced outside the borders of Europe or in Greece under conditions that cannot move forward. Europe cannot now build borders in such a way that people in need are not helped. We'll be all right — they'll be all right. History always evaluates these things a little longer. I'm a historian myself. When I think about how crisis situations are assessed a few decades later, people who have stood up for the values of society and the rule of law are generally respected. So now is not the time to cut human dignity and respect for human rights, including when it comes to the rights of asylum seekers and the rights of people who are genuinely in need. Unfortunately, this government, with the governments of many other European countries, has had little in competition with those who limit rights the most and try to transfer responsibility for respect for human rights to others. This competition should be brought to an end and European common rules of play which respect international refugee agreements and the rights of those genuinely in need. Clearly, the quota for refugees should be increased for those who are in real need in these refugee camps, especially for women and children. There should be an EU-wide permanent quota system in order to be able to react quickly in different crisis situations and not to falsify, and then respect in Finland the rights of children who, under the age of minors, receive asylum here. Now you are, Minister Orpo, setting a threshold of up to EUR 4000 for these children to bring their parents to Finland. In other words, we must now ensure that there is no legislation restricting the rights of people who are staying in Finland, because integration is important and it is also important to safeguard the rights of children. There is a need for common human rights solutions across the EU. Finland must be on the right side of history.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u20	Mr President! Last year's crisis was truly educational for the whole of Europe. I learned at least the following things. Firstly, organised crime benefits from uncontrolled immigration and makes it a billion-dollar business if it is not addressed. Secondly, the current asylum system is being misused on a large scale. Thousands of asylum seekers in Finland alone have already left voluntarily because conditions or benefits did not please or meet the expectations that different travel vendors have once again entrusted them with. Thirdly, the carrying capacity of the host society must be taken into account or the outcome is a disaster. We are facing an intolerable situation which has already been identified by, for example, the highly responsible recipient countries of humanitarian immigration, such as Germany and Sweden. Fourthly, we have also learned that there is a need for common EU rules, but if those rules of the game are not working, then they will not be respected. Mr President! There is currently a fever in the search for solutions, and this situation that has been experienced last year must not be repeated. It is inconceivable that hundreds of thousands of people will at the same time pass uncontrollably through the EU and many more safe countries and seek, as it were, the most self-directed residence for themselves. We need to find the means to control this situation on a European scale. Finland has done its part responsibly in compliance with EU rules and at the same time, to the extent that the national margin allows, has done everything possible to ensure that the situation is taken over and that the attraction factors for Finland are eliminated. If we look further into the future, then we need to find the solution whereby these obsolete international and EU regulations are renewed in such a way that such migrations stop even before Europe and that the asylum system is changing towards a quota refugee system in the sense that aid is already being selected from outside the EU and they are indeed those who need help.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u21	Mr President! Integration issues are very topical now that Finland has received more asylum seekers than before last year and immigration has also increased in recent decades. The success of integration is a fundamental issue for these immigrants, but also for society as a whole and for the economy as a whole. In an ageing Finland, immigration is also an opportunity; it must be remembered. However, it is not only a question of immigrants being integrated into Finland, but also of us, so to speak, being integrated and adapted to the changing situation and increased immigration. I do not mean that the people of the Republic of Finland should change their own customs or laws, but that they should learn to accept differences and different-looking people and break the spoken Finnish. If immigrants are shunned or excluded from social life and working life and discriminated against, how can they ever integrate and adapt to society? We should broaden the concept of Finnishness so that Virtanen, other than blond hair, can also be a Finnish and full member of society. Mr President! Housing policy has a lot to do with integration. We must avoid social and ethnic segregation in residential areas. Land policy, planning, housing policy and social policy must create diverse housing areas so that poor people and immigrants do not separate from their own separate areas. It is important that different people meet each other in everyday and residential areas, and it is necessary to avoid the development of a society segregating into the regions of the rich and the poor. This is very important for the cohesion and integration of society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u22	Madam President! Today's government action programme on integration is very comprehensive and also seems very feasible when, by quick reading, I found more than 50 different measures. There has already been reference to the experiences of other Nordic countries and the call for closer cooperation. There is certainly every reason to cooperate closely with the Nordic countries. I would like to take the example of Norway, which already has ten years of experience with the Integration Agency. Of course, Norwegian compensation for municipalities is considerably more generous than we can in Finland, but the results of this have been quite good at OECD level. For example, 60% of asylum seekers participating in a two-year programme will be in permanent employment or at a place of study after two years. It is quite clear that there are differences between municipalities, but in line with the Norwegian model, there are four common factors: the individual needs of refugees are taken into account; the monitoring of integration work has been intensive; the focus has been on employment; and the activities have led to opportunities for training or employment where immigrants are forced to use Norwegian. In this action programme, language learning plays a rather central role, and I would like to ask Minister Grahn-Laasonen how, at different levels of education, we can strengthen the learning of practical language skills and not just that our asylum seekers learn grammar from individual commervenks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u23	Värderade Talman! Mr Eerola accused the previous government of the refugee crisis, the Syrian crisis, the unrest in Iraq, the situation in Somalia. I guess that was a pretty productive government, though. He also praised the fact that the government is on the line of the Finns. The shabby manifesto has become the government's line. This is how the world changes. The opening speech prided itself on the abolition of the possibility of humanitarian protection. Finland boasts that the right to humanitarian protection will be abolished. Is that really a cause for pride? Is that right?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u24	We're about to go to the debat, but now Mr. Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u25	Madam President! Throughout this migration crisis, the Christian Democrats have consistently stressed that, above all, through the quota refugee system, we should help people in vulnerable situations directly from refugee camps to Finnish municipalities and thereby be able to start integration measures as quickly as possible. In that sense, the government has failed in EU policy on the EU tables to join this system of internal transfers, which has then proved to be still ineffective. A six-point integration programme has been published today, focusing in particular on two points: the reform of basic adult education and the comprehensive integration of immigrant families. Both are extremely important, and I hope that this will also improve the position of immigrant women in particular. We have a problem with the Finnish system that the language skills of an immigrant woman at home with young children cannot develop. He is quite often in danger of not having access to work, even later on, because of his lack of education, and yet his role, for example, in helping children in school, would be extremely central. I would have liked to ask Mr Grahn-Laasonen if there was any thought as to how this basic education could be made more effective. Could Finnish folk high schools or adult education centres, especially educational institutions for liberal education, help with this basic education? And how else can we ensure that the language training of immigrant women at home with young children can work? Today they quite often have
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u26	Secretary Orphan, two minutes from that seat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u27	Madam President! Thank you for the constructive contributions that were made by the majority and then there were a couple of less constructive contributions. But it was that last autumn Finland faced such a situation that the sustainability of our society was under test. And when European countries and our neighbouring countries, even Sweden, acted by tightening up their own asylum systems, we had to do the same. We had to weigh between humanism and pragmatism, and because our system and its endurance were under test, we had to choose the line of tightening it up. Now we have the situation under control, but yet Finland has come and there are well over 30,000 asylum seekers. To help them, to deal with their case is now essential, and that is why we must have this overall situation under control, and that is why we must continue to defend our position by making those unfortunate decisions and tightening up our system. As far as taking quota refugees is concerned, yes, I absolutely agree with that policy, but as long as the country is out of control and Europe is out of control, we will not be able to reach it. That's why we need to get the system under control. Here again, the key element is the European Union. European Union legislation defines to a great extent the environment in which Finland operates, the pressure on our borders, the functioning of the asylum system and its decision-making processes, the functioning of European border control, the functioning of return policy, the effectiveness of catching up with crises in third countries and the problems of refugees. European legislation and the asylum system are not working at the moment and are therefore being reformed. Its reform is in the interests of Finland and we must be actively involved in it. The purpose of its reform is to make the system work so that we can focus on those people who are in need of its greatest help and so that we can develop legal and safe entry routes to Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u28	Then Minister Lindström, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u29	Madam President! If we would now leave this less flattering speech by Mr Adlercreutz. When he said that integration is of no interest to the government, I do wonder about such speeches. It has just been announced today, work has been done on the back of the neck, it has been invested in the TEM side compared to the previous one, when integration was a few thousand, these amounts have now increased tenfold, 12 times more, and we have also invested more staff and more work and knowledge. That I wonder about these things. These operational programmes, which Mr Rinne presented, the SDP programme: it is very good that these ideas are coming, here too. The government has these programmes and measures. It is not the amount of measures that solves anything in themselves, but the fact that they make sense and put them into practice. But such that integration is not of interest — it is babble talk.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u34	Let's go to the debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u35	Mr President! It is very important that this pragmatic but human line is the way in which Finland handles this issue, and we must do it together with the other Nordic countries. And regardless of the color of the government in which the Nordic country is at present, these guidelines have been very similar. This is like a message to the RKP and the Greens. I would like to thank the Social Democrats, and especially the mainstream of the party, for seeing this common state. But this is also a humane policy, because each person is treated separately and, in his case, it is assessed whether he or she is entitled to stay in Finland, whether there is a need for protection, and then integration will be promoted if there is a need. And just as Minister Orpo said here earlier, it is also important that the return system works for those who are not entitled to stay in Finland. It's just the idea that everyone is personally judged.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u36	Madam President! First of all, we must thank the government for these determined measures which have now brought this very difficult situation under control. As far as integration policy is concerned, I see that we need to make what Finland is, after all, our leader and tie the phrase 'in the country like a country' to it. This state of Finland is a sovereign republic based on democracy, equality and equality, which must always take into account the fact that we are all equals. And all the influences that undermine this must be firmly rejected, whether from the extreme left, from the extreme right or from the radical preachers of Islam. Any such influence that undermines this must be combated. To the representatives of Adlercreutz and Niinistö, I would like to say that I am in favour — and I believe that everyone in this Chamber is in favour — of helping those in need. But you do not seem to recognise the fact that not all asylum seekers who have arrived in the country are really in need.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u37	Madam President! On this international day of freedom of the press and freedom of speech, I would like to remind you of the situation over a year ago. That is where Mr Eerolakin spoke about this basic Finnish immigration programme. It was criticized by forensics as racist and very strange — in any case, at its basic point of departure as racist. There were these dislocations, family reunification, ghettoisation, undocumented health care, and the cost of immigration. These measures have now been taken forward by the government, and now these speeches have changed. I am grateful that people have started to talk about this. We can talk about this now. I think it is very important that we talk about things properly and not talk about hate speech. I would like to thank everyone — I would not have believed this day — for being so open about this in Parliament as an initiative for discussion. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u38	Madam President! There was another discussion initiative last autumn on hate speech and racism. This Parliament was then very unanimous and very empathetic. However, something has happened, and today the sound of the bell is a little different. Mr Eerola showed this very well in his opening speech. Finland can't shut down, people come here. People will also come here in the future. It is absolutely true that integration is now a priority. I personally appreciate your programme of measures, which you have published today, but, unfortunately, there is once again a lack of money, as there are unfortunately many other good proposals from the government. On the other hand, you cannot talk about integration if, at the same time, you radically weaken family reunification, for example. Finland is a great country. I am proud of Finland and that I have been allowed to live here like this. Maybe you have to come a long way to understand how strong the shoulders of this country are. We can do much better than what you are currently showing at the head of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u39	Madam President! Mr Adlercreutz, Mr Razmyar and a few others who criticised these family reunification blackmails as undermining integration: After all, integration has been bad in the past, when family reunification has been easy. So integration has been bad in the past when this family reunification has been easier. As Denmark, for example, tightened its own practices, income differentials between immigrants and the people of Canvas and the employment of immigrants improved. So this integration will improve as these criteria are tightened up. The majority of asylum seekers who have come here do not receive asylum, at least not before, contrary to what Mr Arhinmäki said, but the majority of them have been young men without family. So what do they combine if they get this residence permit? Probably nothing at first, but then they'll be strong in this marriage market of their countries of origin.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u40	Mr President! I do not know what the results of the previous speech were based on. In many respects, you can put really big questions on it. But instead I would like to support what the representative of Estonia said earlier in that regard about what was learned from Norway, namely that through work we should socialise, learn language and profession at the same time. It is certainly a model that is very good and effective. And I would now like to say that this work has been done in the reception centre in the municipality of Kontiolahti in North Karelia. It is now only important that the government should now be able to direct resources to support this work, because it should be quite quick to talk about things, because you know very well that these situations change very quickly and when a person gets the decision that he can stay here,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u41	Mr President! Yes, getting one’s own loved ones, loved ones, to live in the same place is one of the most important factors in integration. Although the government has now adopted an integration programme, all these good goals will hit the cheeks if people do not have the opportunity to have their own family and love in Finland. After all, the idea of the EU is that never again war, the cause of peace, and together we want to create common growth. Now, on the borders of Europe, we have barbed wire fence camps with women and children in the middle of a mud camp. Summer comes, heat comes, there is a danger that hygiene will be weak and infectious diseases will progress. Many of the help NGOs have already left the region because they do not see the agreement between the EU and Turkey, possibly even illegal, as being wise. I would like to ask how the government will ensure that the human rights of these people are safeguarded.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u42	Mr President! It is, of course, wonderful that the government wants to invest in integration, but I would also like to see the government assess the impact of the government's legislative proposals on integration, in addition to such declarations of programmes. One example is the limitation of subjective day care rights, which will make everyday life difficult for immigrant women in particular. The second is the government's proposal to tighten up the criteria for family reunification, which will make it more difficult for people in need, women and children to get here, and it will also make it more difficult to integrate people who have been granted asylum in Finland when it is no longer possible to get their own loved ones here for safety. Mr Eerola is also aware that an exceptionally large number of unaccompanied asylum seekers have also come to Finland, who are also affected by this. Minister Orpo, which of us could focus on building a new everyday life in a completely new country if you have to live with constant care and uncertainty about how...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u43	Madam President! Under the leadership of Minister Orpo, the government has made a very good policy in the difficult and surprising situation that Finland faced last year. Finland’s immigration policy has been humane, human and human rights-respecting, and at the same time pragmatic. By this pragmatic approach, I mean that it has been necessary for us to make changes in our system at about the same pace as the other Nordic countries, so that we do not end up in a situation where asylum seekers throughout Europe come to Finland specifically, because here the conditions, the conditions for having a family, compensation and so on would be better than elsewhere. This involves this family reunification. It is easy to criticise this tightening, because it is true that it does not contribute to the integration of asylum seekers who have already arrived and are arriving. But the other side of the matter is that no amount will be the ceiling if Finland, as the only country in Europe, is left in this much more favourable situation than others.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u44	Madam President! Quite a few have thanked Minister Orpo here today, but unfortunately I am not one of them, understandably. After all, the government is making a truly inhumane policy, and I am certainly not going to support this. Well, let's take a look at these integration intentions and what kind of action the government is doing: Limiting family reunification — that is, if you earn the same amount as a Finnish journalist, local nurse, café and bar worker, nurse, you will not get your spouse or two children in Finland. You heard me right. It's an inconceivable income limit. Furthermore, the creation of two floors of social security, the treatment of other people as second-class citizens — quite incomprehensible. A few words also for the Finns: It is incomprehensible that you pretend that you are interested in small people. The Government Programme was adopted in May. You were ready to operate on a lot of things. You're doing a lot of cutting. The asylum crisis started only in July. I can't believe this, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u45	Madam President! The refugee crisis that has shaken Europe has been going on for almost a year. It is good to remember that there are thousands and thousands of human fates behind this crisis. That is why we must pursue a responsible policy so that we stick to international agreements, but also responsibly, by giving the right conditions to those who are eligible for a residence permit here. Above all, we need action at EU level, but also at international level. Mr President! Now, how we succeed, above all, in integration and also in this asylum policy, will have a real long-term impact from now on, over the years of government. What would be essential now would be to find this, such an important issue, as broad a national consensus as possible and not to use this situation as a need for a day's policy, not on any political side. The idea raised by Mr Paatero and Mrs Rinne that a parliamentary working party should be set up for the asylum and integration programme: I ask, Mr Orpo, whether it will be all right with you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u46	Mr President! Mr Lindtman said that no policy instrument should be used. However, we still have to wonder what the Social Democrats had in the Urp era in relation to asylum policy, immigration, and what is now in the Rinte era. Just as Mr Eerola said in his speech, representatives Rinne and Lindtman have come to the line of the Finns. That is good, but I wonder what the other demarcation group has on the government's asylum policy. Tytti Tuppurainen has called the Finnish line "the closing place of darkness". Mr Nasima Razmyar has taken the wrong line on family reunification, which the government is now proposing — in complete contradiction with Group Chairman Antti Lindtman. What is the policy on immigration of demars? This is something people don't understand. That's what you could tell us. Is this the Comrade Tuulivir, which goes according to the winds in question, turning in which direction the wind now takes? Do the demars have a policy on immigration?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u47	Mr President! Finland must not close down, and all those in need must be helped and people on low incomes must not be put against each other. If you, the True Finns, create the impression that people on low incomes are suffering at the same time that asylum seekers are coming here, it is because of the economic policy, the cutting policy that you, as a government party, are pursuing. But, President, Finland must now be active at the EU tables. Now is not the time to look inward. The EU's asylum policy is being reformed. Schengen must be protected; it requires a smart external border policy. The Dublin system must be reformed, and it is also in the interests of Finland, because we are an external border country of the EU. But one of the most important reforms at EU level would be to create safe and legal entry routes here in Europe. One safe route of entry would be, Mr Elo, precisely that family reunification. It is important to ensure that there are no more victims in the Mediterranean. It is also our responsibility to future generations. That is the policy of the Social Democrats on immigration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u48	Mr President! The refugee crisis is not exactly our fault or ours, but together we should find solutions here, preferably across party lines. This is not the place where it is worthwhile building an opposition-intergovernmental line. I don't accept that. The success of integration in many ways in the long term can even be a matter of fate for us in our society, and that is why we must be involved in both humanity and realism. We also need to be prepared for an increase in the number of asylum seekers, as happened last year, as the summer progresses. It is also quite realistic to be prepared for the fact that the sense of security in our country may also deteriorate quite radically. I would like to ask Minister Orpo how we are prepared for this now that internal security is already less well resourced.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u49	Madam President! It is necessary to help and integrate well those who have come to Finland and Europe. It is necessary to help people in refugee camps and in the regions of origin, suffering people, but a sustainable solution needs more than that at global level. In Europe we cannot hide behind the oceans like North America, such as Australia, such as Japan. We must be able to contribute to reducing differences in living standards, poverty, human rights violations, crises in neighbouring areas, particularly Africa, North Africa. It calls for international cooperation, for a European external relations policy to be effective at global level, for a good development policy. Therefore, a sustainable solution can only be found if these root causes of the crisis are removed in the longer term from our neighbourhood, from outside Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u50	Madam President! The Finnish line must be such that asylum seekers become Finnish builders, and this can only be achieved if integration is successful. In this respect, when Mr Adlercreutz made that provocative argument that integration is of no interest to the government, I would ask him whether you have familiarised yourself with this programme of measures on integration published by the government, which responds to your concerns, among other things, that successful integration and employment can be an opportunity to respond to the challenge of Finland's dependency relationship and labour market matching problems. Here, too, the government is aware that integration policy has not produced the desired results in all cases in the past, but now, as the ministers have said here, the programme will seek new forms of intersectoral cooperation, digitality and employment as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u51	Värderade Talman! Mr Kärnä has asked whether we do not understand that not everyone needs security. We can read statistics: between 30% and 40% will be given asylum, and that is how it has been and will probably be the case. I believe that everyone will get a good assessment, and I hope that this will continue to be the case. Minister Orpo talked about the need for harmonisation, and I understand this need. But I also hope that the government will see the need for pan-European structures and will vote in favour of creating a compulsory burden-sharing system in Europe because it is in the interests of the whole of Europe. For this integration: If you look at the immigration policy programme that was published shortly before Christmas, there was not much talk about integration. I believe the government agrees with that. Well, I'm glad it's on the show now. Minister Lindström asked about this issue of attraction and it did not come out of my mouth that the attraction factors were linked to the ease of employment, but came from the minister's pen in response to a written question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u52	Madam President! The integration action plans published today by the government do contain very good objectives, and I hope they will be successful, but yes, the great concern here is that those measures require resources for education, employment and the functioning of municipalities, and we know that the resources are already tight and that there are not as many resources for integration as we have in relation to these people. Then I would particularly like to ask Mr Grahn-Laasonen what you intend to do about the poor learning outcomes of immigrants, because these results are indeed alarming. We immigrant young people have in comparison to the general population
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u53	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen now for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u54	Mr President! Of asylum seekers arriving in Finland, 84 per cent are under 34 years of age, i.e. young people, children or young adults. In principle, they have good opportunities to become part of Finnish society, to be educated and to be employed, but this requires that we succeed in integration. That is why today the Government has published a programme that contains a great deal of activities in which, in cooperation with various ministries, we build a new kind of integration system in Finland, faster, more individualised paths in municipalities, education and working life. We have a number of actions in this whole, specifically in my own sector, in the Ministry of Education and Culture. Important questions arose here. Among other things, I believe that teachers play a crucial role in our success in improving the learning outcomes of students with an immigrant background. This is a key theme for the renewal of teacher training, which is underway. Basic adult education will be renewed or built. I believe that the training contract model would combine work, education, language learning. The boundaries of integration training and other training will be lowered and smoother paths will be built. Culture, sport, youth work, inter-religious dialogue have been taken into account in this programme. Early childhood education is of great importance, as is the fact that we are catching up with immigrant mothers at home, who are often excluded from these activities. When attention has been paid here to resources, the government also agreed, in connection with the spending limits debate, on the resources that can be used to achieve this integration. On the education and culture side alone, we have increased resources, for example, for preparatory education for basic education, language teaching, the recognition of previously acquired skills, vocational training starting places, specifically targeted at the training needs of immigrants, measures for culture, physical activity and youth work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u55	Secretary Vehviläinen for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u56	Mr President! First of all, successful integration always requires good cooperation between the state, municipalities, different communities, the third sector, all the actors involved, and I consider it valuable that there have also been speeches here about cooperation across the opposition-government borders. I am pleased that the Social Democrats have announced their own programme, and I will also look at the ways and means there. There have also been a few speeches about this imputed municipal compensation system. We are well aware in the government that municipalities think that they should increase their imputed compensation. We're going to think about that. That was 1993 when it was defined, and twice since it was raised by 10%. It may be that even the whole system is not working as it is, what it is now in this situation, so that we have to look at the functioning of the whole system. But then there's another thing I want to take, which is these municipal places. You know that all in all we need some 10,000 municipalities now very quickly. We have about 2500, we need 7,000 to 8,000 more, and that is a lot. Now the Ministry of Employment and the Ely Centres have in fact concluded agreements with 134 municipalities with their own regions. We have 297 municipalities in Mainland Finland. It will tell you that there is still much to be done. In a certain way, I would also like to appeal to you, when there are a lot of municipal decision-makers here, that Members of Parliament in their own localities should also be able to influence the adoption of these positive decisions. It is just as it has been pointed out here that if municipal places are not found, then those who receive a positive decision will remain there in the accommodations of the reception centres.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u57	One more Minister Orphan, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u58	Mr President! First of all, one thing about this family reunion. When talking about the right to family reunification for minors, then I would like to emphasise that Migri makes a personal assessment and evaluates each time, weighs the child’s interests. Then the idea of parliamentary work. I think it is very important that we in this Chamber be able to discuss these issues across party lines, and I will also be familiar with the programme of measures that the SDP has drawn up. I believe that we should continue the debate and I am sure that the government will consider various options for deepening the debate. This is something in which we need to find common paths, not distinguishing paths. I would like to briefly emphasise the importance of this process of reforming European asylum and immigration policy. Among other things, there was reference to President Niinistö's speech at the beginning. He said that where changes are to be made they are not in human rights treaties that are far away and have their own history and values. Domestic legislation is highly bound to European legislation, that is to say, it is a European legislative system and the whole process that we are able to influence. Now the Commission has opened up this reform and we must be involved in it. It defines what are the practices at the border, what are the processes — whether we can achieve a uniform set of criteria so that there is no race and so on. One element there is this issue of burden sharing, which is waiting for the Commission's proposals, and we will then look in peace at the position of the Finnish and Finnish governments. Some kind of burden sharing in a crisis situation could be in Finland's interest, but let us return to this when we see the Commission's proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u59	Then let's go to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u60	Madam President! From the speeches that have been made, it seems that the government is somewhat opposed to an anti-immigration policy and a slightly more solution-oriented Petteri Orpo line. This is not entirely true in the way that party boundaries define this line, but, for example, I would like to thank Minister Lindström for giving a strong thumb last year on green measures to promote integration in the field of immigration. As far as integration is concerned, the most important thing is the rapid process, the mapping of knowledge, the study of language and culture, and the home and work itself, but above all, what crosses all of this is the right to a family. I ask you, Minister Orpo: do you consider the importance of the family to a successful integration policy? If so, how do you assess the government's legislation on family reunification in relation to this? And above all, if a person works and pays taxes, should he also have the right to a family in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u61	Mr President! Now that this family reunification and the importance of the family have been put at the heart of this, I just want to bring to your attention that the Government's action plan on integration also presents very constructive solutions for integration. In future, asylum seekers who have come to Finland alone under the age of 15 would be placed in Finnish families instead of institutional care, which is a much cheaper and more humane solution, because it is important that every child and young person have some kind of safety net, and in a Finnish family they have the opportunity to learn the language and the skills necessary for integration here. I hope, therefore, that such measures and this type of direction, to which the protection of children in Finland is going in the first place, will move from institutional care to foster family activity, which has been shown to be a well-functioning solution —
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u62	Madam President! In order for this debate on asylum and integration policy to be meaningful and to seek solutions, it is necessary, Mr Eerola, to stick to the facts. The income limits for those who have received subsidiary protection in family reunification have been in place since 2010, and I hope that this somewhat loose use of data does not indicate that the Finns of Finland try to make politics, but try to solve problems. We need solutions, not guilty ones. During the spring, the Government parties, together with the responsible opposition, have discussed a number of legislative proposals related to foreign law. However, these legislative proposals come to the Parliamentary Administrative Committee by drop and getting an overview of these issues is difficult. I therefore warmly support Mr Paatero's proposal to set up a parliamentary working party to give us a better overall picture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u63	Madam President! Personally, I also warmly support the responsible immigration policy of the government, and in this context I should also like to thank Mrs Eerola for bringing this debate to this Chamber. Uncontrollable immigration, as has also been mentioned here in the initial debates, seems to me to be one of the main problems, and I hope that Finland and Minister Orpo there in Europe will still be involved when negotiations take place. I would like to ask the Minister a question: why are the Baltic countries, among other things, not an interesting target for immigrants? Do you have any estimates of this? All in all, attraction factors and integration are important ways forward in this area of immigration, but I am waiting for the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u64	Madam President! The situation of asylum seekers has been handled well in a difficult situation, thanks to the government. We must help those who are persecuted and those who are left behind in the war. However, with such amounts integration is very difficult, and work is the best integrationist for adults and education for children, and for that the government should be commended for the fact that this school path is now being opened up more quickly. As a former teacher, I remember how children with immigrant background experienced different problems in school just because they did not know how to speak Finnish and therefore did not manage their studies in the way they would have done otherwise. In fact, when we teach these little children, even a little bigger ones, the Finnish language, they often take it home too, and so parents learn the Finnish language, and they are even stronger in the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u65	Mr President! The SDP's line is clear: help for those in need, correct asylum processes, seek common European solutions, invest in integration and do well. The SDP is also a constructive party. We offer the government a hand in cooperation on this whole. In integration policy in particular, this is a common issue, and we really must also find sustainable solutions to this together. But this situation as a whole is difficult, and I would like to point out that the EU-Turkey Refugee Agreement and the fact that, now that we are trying to ensure that Turkey does not become refugees to an ex-EU level, we must not, at the same time, turn away from the human rights problems that Turkey faces, the problems that exist in the border regions of Europe, including the regions of Turkey, into those people who are in refugee camps, for example. We mustn't turn our eyes away.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u66	Mr President! For information to Mr Andersson, day care will continue to be provided by immigrants as necessary. Mr Tuppurainen pointed out the need to help those in need. There are billions of people in need. We need realism. The more dealers there are, the less to share. It is therefore worth considering why the native population will start moving away from residential areas as the number of immigrants rises. Finally, Mr President, the asylum business in Finland must not be moneyed out. Smugglers are already making money in the asylum business.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u67	Mr President! There has been a great deal, a great deal of discussion here, but if we go into the situation today, the pre-relationship raised by Mr Paatero is extremely important. I have visited Seinäjoki at the reception centre and Kauhava, where you can see the situation very clearly. Children are provided with day care and education, but parents, fathers and mothers have now spent six months at the reception center of this dark period doing about nothing. There is no language training, and it is therefore important that this pre-integration be initiated. I have also visited Kauhava, where Director Peura told me how this preoccupation was started. There is an elementary school, a secondary school, there are many kinds of activities for parents: cross-crushing, helping out on farms. But then the situation came that there were restaurant owners who had been holding restaurants for years — they could not prepare food because there was no hygiene passport. This is why restaurant day was held outside the reception room. I would now like to ask you about this compensation for municipalities, which is about 50%.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u68	Madam President! The section of the Committee on Finance was allowed to visit Ethiopia a few weeks ago and we looked at the situation of refugees and development cooperation. We heard that Ethiopia has received 800,000 refugees from its neighbours Eritrea, South Sudan, Yemen and Somalia. This is very important, there are countries around which are collapsing, the administration is half or almost collapsing, and the Ethiopians were very grateful for the development aid they received from Finland, and Minister Toivaka's work was also on the agenda. The question is how much we will or should pay even more attention to the situation of asylum in the region to which we are targeting development aid. And the second question relates to family planning, for example in Ethiopia, the population is increasing ninefold from the 1960s to 2050.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u69	Mr President! It may well be that the diary of this generation, Anne Frank, is written by someone who is a child refugee to Europe. How we respond to the human distress caused by the wars in Europe's neighbourhood will be one of the most important issues in which the decision-makers of this generation will be evaluated in the future. We should remember the perspective. For example, the fact that 10,000 underage children disappeared last year, according to the police, when they arrived in Europe. In Lebanon, a country the size of its population in Finland, there were more than one million asylum seekers in September. In such a situation, it is grotesque that we in Finland are discussing attraction factors. Everything that's been said here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u70	Mr President! It has also become clear in this debate that most of us at least want to be able to resolve these common issues, to find solutions to the problems that we face in this asylum policy itself as well as in this area of integration, and then, apparently, some of us here are only doing today's policy on this issue, and perhaps it will tell us something about the responsibility with which these issues are being dealt with. It is good to remember that in other Nordic countries, when this integration has begun to be considered in a new way, it has been very central to the fact that it has been carried out across government-opposition boundaries, that wider shoulders have been sought to resolve these issues and that everyone's proposals have been listened to with a sensitive ear. And that is why it is now important that this parliamentary preparation on these issues should also take place in Finland, and it is great that this has been put forward by the opposition and supported by the government, and it is hoped that this matter will now move forward. And for this parliamentary work then
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u71	Madam President! If I heard correctly, Mr Hassi said it was grotesque to talk about attraction. Congressman Hassi is wrong. While our policy must be human and our policy must be human and we must help those who are persecuted and those who are at the feet of war, we cannot think that Finland is completely separate from the policies that other countries in Europe — the Nordic countries and others — are doing. It is not, Mr Hassi, grotesque to think that if Finland were the only country in Europe where family reunification would be allowed, encouraged and supported in every way possible, or otherwise we would be clearly more attractive than Sweden, Denmark, Germany, Austria, Norway and so on, then these numbers of people would come here — such numbers, Mr Hassi, that no integration policy would be enough to make integration a success.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u72	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz mentioned Sweden. Sweden has received between 10 and 20 times the number of asylum seekers compared to Finland for a number of years. And here I have just said that everything that has been said about the importance of integration is very much to be welcomed, and that is where family reunification is at the heart of it. How can a person adapt to society if he does not get his family, his beloved family members into the country, if he is required to earn so much income that a middle-income Finn does not reach them in order to get his family in the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u73	Madam President! The success of integration is in the common interest of this asylum seeker, the person who remained in Finland, and Finnish society. But if the conditions in Finland are such that thousands, tens of thousands of asylum seekers every year come across Europe, such as the Iraqis last summer, precisely to Finland because they think that family reunification is easier and it is easier to obtain asylum, then there will be so many asylum seekers in Finland, Mr Hassi, that no conceivable resources are sufficient for us to succeed in integrating these people. Family reunification, as Mr Hassi said, is an important prerequisite for integration for the people who are here. But, Mr Hassi, it is a matter of closing your eyes to the facts if you do not admit that a milder, more liberal family reunification policy in Finland leads to such numbers,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u74	Madam President! I interpreted Minister Orvo's response to this SDP's proposal for this parliamentary cooperation, specifically in this area of asylum and integration policy, as a cautious yellow light. Of course, it is important that this debate is held. Things are not going to be finished here, but now we should all roll up our sleeves and get to work. In particular, with regard to these municipalities and in relation to them — and this has also been the subject of debate, depending on the situation — whether these acute costs should be within the framework of the national economy, and when the decisions that are now being taken have really far-sighted effects over the term of government, therefore, Mr President, we have taken this proposal seriously and we offer this over 150-point programme to you. This would be a place for cooperation, a place for broad national consensus, not for day politics.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u75	Madam President! The situation that arose at Finland’s borders last year due to the influx of asylum seekers has been handled very well in Finland. You can thank Minister Petteri Orpo and his team for this. It is well-managed work which hopefully will continue, and I believe that this immigration policy is getting the right frame of reference when we have these operational programmes and the related measures to deal with this issue. We need to get this thing under control, so to speak, and the fact that, for example, an agreement was reached with Russia on the eastern border during the summer that is beginning now is a very good thing. We must keep our relations in order towards the east, that this border peace will remain, because it is extremely important to us. But, Madam President, I would like to conclude by pointing out that when asylum seekers move around the borders of our country, I vividly remember when Mr Päivi Räsänen took the initiative that if asylum seekers were admitted, they would be taken from the refugee camps, because it would be a controlled entry and nothing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u76	Mr President! The fact that this asylum policy has failed at European level and has become out of control does not mean that we in Finland should have a similar policy. Controlled immigration, the fact that we are successful in integration, is certainly the key to this. I have read through this Government's action programme and there are many good points in it, such as what Elovaara said, for example, that people under the age of 15 will be placed in families and then help to learn and integrate Finnish into Finnish society. But at the same time, there are a lot of points here that require resources that the government has not had to offer. The capital region, for example, has a very specific problem with integration. More than half of Finland's immigrants live here in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. Now I ask the ministers responsible in the Council of Ministers whether there is a genuine improvement in this area. For example, Espoo alone costs EUR 160 million a year to compensate for tax revenue elsewhere in Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u77	Madam President! According to the UN estimate, around 60 million people are currently wandering the world looking for a new home — 60 million people who have been forced to flee their own country, leave their language, culture, family and everything. It is clear that, in this situation, when these people are looking for a new home, there is a need for all kinds of diverse integration in order to enable the residents of every country to integrate into the new situation and to integrate these immigrants. But be careful what you wish for. It has been said here in several speeches that the country must live the way it does. Finland is a great country, but it is worth remembering that, on average, compared to European countries, we have much more domestic violence than we do in Europe, we have much more substance abuse problems, we have much more suicides, and we do not want this. I think it's much better.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u78	Madam President! The immigration policy that has been heard here by the SDP and the Green Left is a complete disaster. Immigration policy in Finland before the Finns have been a total failure. The Green Left's line is that Finland will become a world social welfare office. Right now, with this flood of asylum, it becomes more evident from day to day that this kind of forceful unification of nations into multicultural utopia is not wonderful, necessary or lasting. Finland now has...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u79	Madam President! Now that we have taken this line, I think it is appropriate to recall certain basics of asylum and integration policy. It is quite true and, as far as I know, no one in this Chamber has denied that there are also, among asylum seekers, of course, those who do not need asylum and protection. However, this cannot be a justification for preventing people in need of asylum from seeking protection. Just like 137 other countries that have signed the UN Convention on Refugees, Finland has a duty to help not only its own citizens but also those who are not safe in their own country. Finland is one of the richest countries in the world, despite the current economic recession.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u80	Mr President! It is great that the government has taken integration seriously, and it is great that the SDP has extended its hand to cooperation. It's great that at least the yellow light is coming back in the ministry. I do not know what kind of light will then return to the Finnish Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u83	Mr President! The number of countries from which departure is taking place today is increasing. We are now aware that, for example, from North Africa, from the west and also from the south, there are people coming across the Mediterranean, the stream is increasing. I would like to ask Minister Orpo what the current situation is in this regard. How many people are coming from there? It is unrealistic to say that the agreements could only be changed quickly. It won't work. We cannot change the situation in the countries of origin. Furthermore, it is unrealistic to talk about quotas when there is a spontaneous huge avalanche across Europe all the way to Finland. No one asks about the quota when there are thousands of people on our border. This realism could be in front of us any day now. The government has done a good job of working on this issue, having done a programme — it must now only be carried out with drawings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u84	Then Minister Orphan, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u85	Madam President! This is the situation at the moment: there is an interesting moment in the Turkey Agreement, because these refunds are not actually in practice, but the agreement has already led, by its very very existence, to a significant fall in quantities, to a few hundred weeks. I referred here earlier to the fact that it seeks the means — and Europe is also working on the rule of law — to organise the practices that have been agreed upon. It is an essential part of improving the conditions for refugees in Turkey. That is an essential part of this issue. The next observation is there in Libya. We are also trying to find cooperation with Libya in order to put an end to this smuggling and the sending of people on dangerous journeys, but when there are at least two governments in Libya and there are apparently thousands of Isil fighters there, that situation is very worrying, very serious. But those amounts are still at or below last year's level and, as I have told you, the countries of origin are different from those of last spring. As far as Europe is concerned, Europe has closed its borders. There are tens of thousands of people in a bag in Greece on the Macedonian border, as described here, under absolutely shocking conditions. Finland has sent disaster relief, among other things. But if, for example, this EU-Turkey agreement works, then we must at least find a way to dismantle the unsustainable situation in Greece, and we have decided on the mechanisms for internal transfers. What happens now in the spring: At the moment, this situation seems to have not yet begun, at least not as we saw it last year. I know that Europe is working hard to ensure that this Libya-Italy route is maintained in order to stop the Turkish route, but that all of this means that then those people will be left there in their countries of origin and in the crisis areas and they will have to be helped there. But if we can get to the point where we can't control the quantities we can't control.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u86	Then Minister Toivaka's turn, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u87	Mr President! Development policy and development cooperation can really have an impact on root causes in the root countries there, and also on the prevention of refugees, and also on the response to this very current refugee situation. We know that there is a great need for humanitarian aid, food and shelter, but, at the same time as these crises are prolonged, there is also a need for strengthening the carrying capacity, for people to have work and education. Indeed, Finland has increased its support for these regions, where there is a great deal of refugees, and for these neighbouring countries. This year too, we have already made EUR 61 million in donations to, among other things, the neighbouring countries of Syria and the Central African Republic. There was mention here of Ethiopia, which suffers not only from a large number of refugees but also from a huge drought. Help is on the way to Yemen and also to areas with these prolonged crises, such as Afghanistan and Somalia. This work is extremely important, but at the same time we must ensure that this carrying capacity is strengthened, that people have hope there in the camps, and that is why humanitarian aid alone is not enough. In Istanbul, for example, this month, we are dealing with how we can combine our carrying capacity and these humanitarian activities in such a way as to make aid more effective for these people in refugee camps. But then a few words about this current situation in Libya. So it is not noticeable that it is the Syrian refugees who are actually coming through Libya and along the Libyan route to Italy. At present, most of these asylum seekers come from sub-Saharan Africa. Around the weekly level, the numbers have been around 5,000 people, but this will of course be monitored very closely where this situation is developing, and solutions will be sought at EU level, as Minister Orpo has previously mentioned. Similarly, at the level of development ministers, we are looking for solutions on how we can get more help to solve root causes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u88	Minister Lindström, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u89	Madam President! First of all, thank you for the debate, which has basically remained quite proper — sometimes it gets a little warmer, but that's all right, it's all right. There is a hand of cooperation here on the part of the SDP, and I myself have such a philosophy here that this problem will not go anywhere during this reign. This will also be in the arms of the next government for sure. The same is true of that unemployment. That is also the problem of the next government. That is why, as far as the solutions we are now making are concerned, we are in a situation where we have to rethink the philosophy of integration in many ways, because these amounts are quite different from what we are used to. Well, concreteity, what we have now been thinking about, among other things, concrete ways of this employment: this kind of impact investment is one way, and it would implement this kind of quick employment experiment, combining the immigrant's fast employment with the continuing training during the employment relationship. This is aimed at 2000 jobs. This is a so-called SIB model. On the other hand, I would like to highlight another important element of cooperation, namely the partnership programme. We cannot manage this alone; we need business cooperation, the help of labour market and business organisations, universities, chambers of commerce, all of these, and we have already come from there when this crisis started, to knock at the door of the Ministry of Employment and Employment, to help us. This is such a huge challenge, and this will not end next week or next month, but will continue. That is the attitude we, as a government, must take on this. When this came to the SM, they took the crisis mode here, and that crisis mode must be kept on. Let us not rush, but let us work decisively to resolve this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u90	Then there's still a few more minutes to make the debatable remarks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u91	Mr President! When we talk about integration and immigration, it is good to remember that there is a large number of asylum seekers but that there are many other reasons for coming here: family reunification, students are the second largest group, work-based immigration and then humanitarian reasons. All these people should be taken care of. My concern is, of course, that the unemployment rate of those who have moved to the country is more than double that of the native population, and this can lead to many challenges for us if we are not able to train and employ them. The idea of creating a parliamentary working party that would look at this immigration and integration in the long term would be important, because this does not end, as the ministers here testified, in this term of government, but requires this kind of long-term work. It should be committed to society, to these efforts, to everyone's commitment. In practice, however, it is important that measures are taken here and now,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u92	Madam President! It has already been said here that Finland is a great country, as if we did not remember it or know it. Many of our parents have experienced war. Many of us have lost our grandparents to the war front. During the Winter and Continuation War, 90,000 soldiers died, and Finland took 400,000 evacuees. Yes, we have a heart open and we also know how to accept a person. On that weekend of May Day, I have been traveling among the people, and there has come a clear message from the elderly: They have asked whether it is the case that immigrants who arrive here receive more than others. They've said there's cell phones and there's equipment and there's clothes. This is the message of the people. I have answered them that help is needed. I would like to ask about the real situation at reception centres: It has also been reported that there has been some sort of problem with food and that food does not necessarily taste good. What Is the Real Situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u93	Madam President! I would like to remind Mr Eerola and the other Finns who have criticised the previous government and, as it were, wanted to put their eyes on the current problems there. Last season, a law amendment was introduced to close the loophole: In the past there was legislation that if you had received a negative residence permit, then if you did not voluntarily return to a country that does not accept compulsory returns, then you really did get a residence permit and even a permanent one. If this change had not been made, we would be in real trouble, because the return of the Iraqis, Afghans, who have received a negative residence permit, would not be successful.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u94	Värderade fru talman! After studying what external factors affect how to integrate, the biggest single factor is how to deal with immigrants: how we talk about them here, on the street, how to open doors to homes, kindergartens and schools. This is the single biggest factor, and it means that this debate is also important. If you want to focus on positive issues: the employment rate has improved every year. Every year they become more employable, which means that when our society develops, when we internationalise, when we open up, it will lead to better integration. This development must not be stopped. But there are also practical problems. For example, it is difficult to open a bank account, difficult to get insurance. These are concrete barriers to employment. If you don't have an I.D., these are behind the rock. What thoughts does the government have in this regard? Are you going to ease these concrete problems?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u95	Mr President! Here Mr Zyskowicz spoke earlier about family reunifications and facts, and I would like to make it clear that the fact is that family reunification is not attractive to anyone at the moment and is not possible for anyone at the moment, because of the tightening up that has already been done in Finland in the past. In other words, a person currently in Syria, for example, is expected to travel to Lebanon to get a visa to Turkey and then, if he can, travel to the Finnish Embassy to Ankara for this family reunification process, or to Somalia to apply for a visa to Ethiopia, and if he can, he will be able to travel to the Finnish Embassy to Addis Ababa for this family reunification process. In other words, these practices in Finland are already strict, and I do not understand why this government wants these criteria to be tightened up in the past, knowing that it makes it more difficult for those in need to get to safety and makes integration more difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u96	Madam President! I think that this government has really taken this matter under good control last autumn, given the circumstances, and the authorities have done a good job and the President has done a good job. Niinistö has correctly stated that we need to focus on helping those who are really in need because our resources are not enough for all. This is a human question, but of course we also have to budget this expenditure. Last year we had 32,000 asylum seekers. Now the budget has been made on the basis of 10,000 asylum seekers, and it causes additional expenditure in many ministries. We must also see that we are able to meet the challenge that exists for the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u97	Mr President! With regard to the situation in Syria, Mr Orpo, I ask you whether there has been a debate and some agreement between the EU and Turkey on the fact that Syrians are now behind the Syrian border will not be able to enter Turkey at all when this number of asylum seekers has fallen so dramatically from there. It has come from quite a number of sources that Turkey has, as it were, closed its borders towards Syria and that people will have to wait there in a country where the fighting is really dramatic. Nothing has changed in Syria at the moment. Have those people stayed behind the border to wait?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u98	Minister Orpo responds briefly, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u99	Mr President! I have no information or evidence that any of this has been agreed. I do not believe that the European Union has any capacity to agree on what is happening at the Turkish-Syria border. In any case, I think that the situation at the Syrian border is extremely difficult. In particular, it was difficult when we were living in a time when Russia started bombing and created a new stream of refugees, which apparently Turkey has tried to curb. All in all, however, I believe that the European Union must be concerned about the human rights situation in both Syria and Turkey, and insist that this agreement in Turkey be counterbalanced by respect for human rights and the proper treatment of refugees.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u100	Mr President! For Mr Räsänen's information, exactly in my opening speech, I spoke of the previous governments in the plural. In my opinion, the previous government had a very good and active Minister for the Interior in these matters. Now that he is in the opposition, if possible, he is even more active. However, I would add that in those countries where these criteria for family reunification have been successfully tightened, we have not seen any weaker results in terms of integration, but, on the contrary, in some cases - and these results are still very short - the income differentials between immigrants and the majority of the population seem to be decreasing in those countries where such tensions have taken place. So at least it has not weakened integration when family reunification has been tightened up. This integration, for example, has been bad for Somalis, Afghans and Iraqis when family reunification has been easier. So I saw when we measure integration by measuring how well these arrivals are employed and learning Finnish.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u101	The two-hour period for the debate is now closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u102	The third item in the order of business is presented for the presentation of the interim question. Antti Rinne and 27 other representatives have asked the Government an intermediate question about the direction of Finland on the VK 2/2016 vp. I now give the floor to the first signatory of the intermediate question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u103	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u104	Madam President! The proposal supports the key project and deregulation of the legislation in accordance with the Government Programme and is therefore largely to be supported. However, there is a small need for change. Drunk driving is a cancer of road traffic. Preventing drunken driving is therefore important road safety work and generally acceptable for drivers. Last year, about 18,000 drivers of a motorised vehicle were suspected of driving drunk. In the view of the government, the alcolock is an important tool in reducing drunken driving offences. The current legislation defines the alcolock as a device to measure the alcohol content of the driver’s breath air and, if necessary, to prevent the vehicle from starting. The alcolock requires the driver to breathe occasionally even while driving. Alcolock technology is developing, and new, alternative equipment models are being developed all the time, and that is good, because the alcolock is still quite easily tricked. Nothing is as smart as a human being. Alcolock is an alternative to a driving ban on a drunk driver. According to the current law, a person resident in Finland who has committed a drink-driving activity based on alcohol use and who has not been banned for any other reason, such as serious endangerment of road safety. A person shall have the right to drive a passenger, a package, a lorry or a bus or a tractor. Alcolocks may be mounted on one or even on all vehicles which are in controlled use. In addition to the alcolock, a driver under a controlled driving licence in Alcolock will receive a so-called alcolock driving licence, which must be accompanied by a driving licence as before. The requirement for the use of the alcolock is reflected in the national special condition 111 which is attached to the driving licence. In addition, the registration number of the vehicle or vehicles which may be transported shall be entered in the register of driving licences. The court may set a probationary period for the driver to be supervised by the alcolock, which shall not be less than one year and no more than three years. The average duration of a controlled driving licence in Finland is about 17 months, but in Sweden, for example, these driving bans are longer. The driver must use the alcolock throughout the test period and pay all the costs of the device, which, according to this proposal, amount to between EUR 110 and EUR 160 per month. The alcolock can also be rented for a controlled driving licence. In this case, the price of the device is approximately EUR 200 per month for the first year, EUR 160 per month for the second year and EUR 120 per month for the third year. The rental includes extracting and calibrating the operating data. This is the first instance of the law: it is not possible to acquire the Alcolock unless there is money. It is neither self-evident nor consistent with the principle of equity. Anyone who has no money will be banned from driving, and whoever has money will continue to drive unless he commits other offences. In practice, everyone should also have access to the Alcolock regardless of their wealth. One option would be that, after a certain basic charge, someone would pay more than a part of the price, installation and cost of the alcolock. However, in 2013, a study by the Finnish Transport Safety Agency has found that, on the basis of the data released from alcolocks, the controlled driving licence devices have prevented more than 12,000 drunk driving and more than 40,000 alcoholic driving. It's not a very small amount of traffic. In my view, a particularly important point is that, according to the proposal, a controlled driving licence is withdrawn if, without an acceptable reason, supervision violates the restriction contained in a controlled driving licence, neglects the obligation under a controlled driving licence or makes or attempts to render the alcolock inoperative. In addition, the driver shall not drive a vehicle other than that fitted with an alcolock. The right to drive controlled by the Alcolock must also be withdrawn if, during the alcolock programme, the driver is guilty of serious endangerment of road safety, drunken driving or serious drunken driving. Controlled driving rights shall also be withdrawn if they are requested to do so. Madam President! When used correctly, the alcolock effectively reduces drunk driving. About 30 percent of drivers caught driving drunks repeat their actions. On the basis of the above study, the majority of drivers felt that the alcolock had contributed to reducing their alcohol consumption and preventing a new drink driving. The aim of the reform of the legislation on alcolocks is to remove the lack of interpretation and inadequacy of the legislation and to make the legislation on alcolocks a more coherent whole. If this succeeds as proposed, it is in the interests of all of us. According to the Transport Policy Report adopted in the Parliament in April 2012, irresponsible traffic behaviour and substance abuse in transport will be addressed more rigorously, including by expanding the use of alcolock and enhancing the treatment and support measures offered to alcohol-related people. However, I do not think that these measures are sufficient, but that there is also a need for vehicle configuration from problem drink drivers more frequently and on a country-wide level. This is not the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u105	Madam President! During the previous parliamentary term, the Committee on Legal Affairs dealt with the citizens' initiative on the hardening of sentences for DUI, and at that time the committee adopted statements on this issue. One statement was that Parliament requires the government to take urgent action to increase the use of the alcolock, and now this proposal is one of the following. This government proposal provides for the adoption of the Alcolock Act. It introduces, inter alia, a new notification procedure for Alcolock operators in order to allow regulatory oversight, and this notification would be a prerequisite for access to the market for alcolocks. This law also provides for the approval of the alcolock model in accordance with the legislation in force. There is also, of course, the law that, if problems in the alcolock are found to impair road safety — if there were errors or deficiencies — it would be possible to withdraw the approval of that model immediately. It is a good thing that we are talking about alcolock and that its use is also becoming more common. Since we do not have any alcolock manufacturers in Finland, perhaps this would be a good idea to think about how we could develop these models in our own country. When we are a technical and skilled country on these very issues, this could be one good idea that we could then bring to the world. All measures to prevent drunken driving and to save every victim from a drunk driver are worthy of action, and in that respect, alcolockusia is also very important to bring to its end.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u106	Madam President! Alcohol is one of the biggest factors in the risk of accidents in road transport. In recent years, about one in five fatal road accidents had involved an intoxicated driver. And when it is known that a drunk driver often repeats his actions, it is a very serious matter. The aim is to reduce accidents caused by the use of drugs, not only by traffic control but also by education and campaigns. Although the most inventive are able to orbit the alcolock, the alcolock is an effective technical tool for preventing drunken driving and has become more widespread in Europe. In addition to pre-empting drunk driving, the Government's proposal aims to eliminate the lack of interpretation and inadequacy that burdens the current regulations and to improve the protection of personal data. In addition, the aim of the amendment is to lower the price of the Alcolockus programme and to increase the use of the Alcolock as an alternative to driving ban. The price determines the spread of the alcolock among not only the wealthy. The law would cover the approval, installation, maintenance and use of the alcolock, the so-called health-based alcolock, and the alcolock used in school and day-care transports. Madam Speaker! Currently, there are four different sets of legislation on alcolock. The bill supports the key project of breaking government standards, as the amendment is intended to clarify regulation and reduce administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u107	Mr President! You have to use every possible means to construe drunken driving. The generalisation of the use of alcolock can prevent drunken driving offences and probably also the driving rights of the vehicle. The use of alcolocks does, however, make a very clear contribution to road safety. Still about one fifth of road deaths are caused by drunken driving accidents. In addition to saving lives, Alcolock also has such positive effects, as evidenced by a study published in February 2013 by Trafi shows that one third of Alcolock users reported that they had maintained their jobs thanks to the Alcolock. That is a very worthwhile and good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u108	Madam President! The same means of combating drunken driving are not suitable for all drunk drivers, as there are different levels of substance abuse. Thus, drunk drivers can be roughly divided into three groups. The first group includes young people and first-timers who drink alcohol even while driving at risk limits, i.e. about 0.5 per mil. For young drivers in particular, alcohol is a major risk factor in traffic. According to the studies, the best way to prevent drivers in this group is to calculate the limit of the standard in Sweden and Norway, as well as to raise awareness. At 0.2 per cent, the average hop farm of drivers will fall by a decrease in the permille limit. This will improve road safety in the same way as the calculation of average traffic speeds. Those in the second group often take conscious risks of driving intoxicated and are caught as statistical victims as a result of a so-called miscalculation, a miscalibrated personal alcohol meter, a report or a traffic accident. The effect of the alcolock in this group is effective because they are often employed and in need of a car. Life management and alcohol consumption in the third group, the most problematic, are no longer under any control. They drive their car every day when they're drunk. Persons do not need to drive a driving licence or even a registration plate on the vehicle. Nor do they care about prolonged driving bans. They don't get an alcolock because they don't have a driver's license. This group is not affected by the calculation of the permille limit either. In addition to the seizure of the vehicle, only prison sentences prevent them from driving. Penalty is an expensive system for society and, in some cases, for individuals. For this reason too, the cheapest and most effective way of increasing road safety and reducing drunken driving is to confiscate a vehicle from them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u109	Madam President! Mr Kulmala was very grateful to us here to clarify the problems of alcolock and drunken driving. Yesterday, among other things, I last drove a car with an alcolock. Although I was not a drunk driver last night either, I would wonder whether it would be worth checking in this connection, for example, whether the alcolock could be a mandatory device for new cars. The cost of alcolock has been presented here: if it were to come to about 100,000 cars a year — the number of new cars sold in Finland — I would believe that the price of the device would no longer be a problem. Today, a few car brands already have a pre-installed alcolock, and it shows nothing in the car price. Some years ago, when an alcolock became mandatory for the taxi industry in connection with school rides, the price of locks was about EUR 1 000 installed. I believe that if a total of 100,000 alcolocks are installed on new cars on an annual basis, the price is quite different and downwards. This device you have is simple, and the Finnish equipment manufacturer will probably be found, as long as there is a market, and such a 100,000 machine market business might be of interest to someone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u110	Madam Speaker! Indeed, alcohol causes a lot of accidents. In fact, just before May Day, it became known that 49 people died last year, and in one fifth of the deaths, alcohol is involved and there is a slight increase. Of course, not only that alcohol but also medicines are one factor in the traffic. I'm sure the Alcolock won't be able to find those drugs in that person. But we do have a lot of things that should be put right in Finland. I don't know what that alcolock device looks like, I've never seen it, so it's probably not so common. But I would hope that with this bill this device will now increase and at least give us some kind of protection and security in that traffic. For every person who has been victimized by alcohol, that situation is catastrophic for both the victim and his family and loved ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u111	Madam President! In my opinion, the police have the opportunity to develop their working processes in the case of drunk driving, thereby making their work much more effective. At the moment, the police are working hours to deal with drunken driving, especially as regards the driving distance between the scene of the crime and the police station. Accuracy alcohol meters and functional communications must be made available quickly to police cars. In this case, the police do not spend their hours on the road driving drunk drivers and searching for a computer. The lack of resources and congestion in pre-trial investigations also lead to an excessive extension of the investigation period. Legislation should be changed to support work processes and be adapted to the telecommunications age. In particular, in order to speed up work processes, the police should have the right to write a sentence directly on the road in the case of drunk driving where the evidence is indisputable. In this case, only the post-traumatic cases and the cases of drunken driving which exceed 1.2 per mil and have repeatedly been committed would continue to be the subject of a full pre-trial investigation and a judicial ruling. In the case of drunken driving, a quick on-road procedure would relieve the field police of their input into other traffic control and public order duties. At the same time, police investigators could focus on investigating other crimes. Such a development of working processes would save society and, at the same time, taxpayers' money. Savings would be generated especially in prosecution and court proceedings. Accuracy alcohol meters should also be purchased for all major police boats.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u112	Madam President! A drunk driver often experiences great shame, and rightly so, but at the same time the family of a drunk driver is also ashamed. This alcolock could remove certain shame, especially from children, if that father has made one mistake, as if by half accident, and is unable to take the child to hobbies. This alcolock could make it possible for him to take the child to hobbies in the future, as the card remains in another shape, and the children would not have to experience shame when the father cannot — suddenly the children start to tease each other. As far as this price is concerned, if new cars, these millions of cars, were to be fitted with an alcolock, it would hardly cost much more. In view of the fact that the air conditioning used to be an accessory and was considered expensive and today it is quite common in every car and is rare that it does not exist, this alcolock will probably be in every car in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u113	Madam President! Congressman Juvonen just left the gym, but he asked me what kind of machine is an alcolock. In that traffic, a lot of us have been able to blow on a similar device in connection with the police raid. Of course, there are other devices besides those in police cars. The device is similar to what the police have in that traffic, is blown into it by a blast of about 3 seconds, and it recognizes the amount of alcohol in the air and is transmitted either through a wire or wirelessly into a car with a magnetic lock in the starter motor. It takes about an hour — an hour from a professional — to install this device in the car, and the device itself is certainly not very expensive today. These types of inflatable devices can be found at service stations, of course they are not exactly the same, but modern technology will probably be able to put reliable accuracy on these devices. There is absolutely no question of cost.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u114	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u115	Madam President! Although slavery has basically been abolished, millions of people around the world live under conditions such as slavery. Modern slavery includes, for example, debt slavery, trafficking in human beings, child labour and forced marriages. The most vulnerable people in society, such as women and children, are always more vulnerable to exploitation. The ILO estimates that almost 21 million people worldwide are victims of forced labour, of which 11.4 million are women and girls. 4.5 million of the victims are in forced labour related to sexual exploitation. Trafficking in human beings is particularly targeted at women and children. Trafficking in human beings means selling people for example to prostitution, sexual exploitation or forced labour. Organ trafficking can also be trafficking in human beings. One of the worst forms of forced labour is the use of child labour. Children’s working conditions are often very poor, low or non-existent, and subject to health and welfare conditions. Trafficking in human beings is one of the most profitable forms of international organised crime, which also affects Finland. Finland is estimated to be a transit country every year for up to hundreds of victims of trafficking in human beings and for some of them also a destination country. The Government's proposal to approve the Protocol and the law on the transposition of the provisions of the Protocol in the field of legislation must be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u116	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u117	Madam President! In this context of the reform of the Audit Act there are many issues and through the directive there is also a need for reform. You can be happy to support this main line. There are many things there that also affect the everyday lives of small entrepreneurs. I would like to draw the attention of the government to one point which I would have liked to have been corrected in this connection, and that relates to the government proposal last season presented by Minister Ihalainen a little over a year ago in January 2015. The main content of this proposal is that there would have been an obligation for auditors to notify the relevant authorities of suspected financial offences. At present, there is no such obligation from the point of view of combating the shadow economy. A similar law has been in place in Sweden since 2000 with good success, and I hope one day that I will see that this kind of law is also laid down in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u118	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. A debate on the 8th and 9th items of the order of business will also be allowed in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u119	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 8/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The first speaker is the chairman of the committee, Mr Jalonen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u120	Mr President! I came here to make this presentation, which is perhaps more like a correction on this point, because there has been so much misinformation in the press about this government proposal and this report. This is, therefore, at this stage, this first step, just and only from entering into this reporting practice, nothing more. There has already been a great deal of discussion about the second stage, although there is no proposal as a whole. It was very much this kind of sensational discharge of the subject, can be said this way. But now this government proposal and report in question is only, and only, about this transition to notification practice. However, the committee felt it was important to raise these concerns, which were already raised in the course of the discussions and expert opinions which might come up at the next stage, and which can be read in the report. But for these corrections. When the newspapers write that this opens up the competition and so on, the postal competition has already been opened in 1994. This has been facilitated and relaxed along the way, making it easier to get to this sector since the opening of the competition. These have taken place in 2002 and 2011. These have been made along the way, and this is, as it were, a continuum to it. These expert statements must be drawn from this kind of summary that almost all experts have supported this board proposal and this notification policy including Posti himself. Actually, the most critical statement has come from the unions. It can be interpreted so that it may be the only such non-supportable presentation. But there's caution there, too. But this, too, was even more because of the unknown phase two. This first step is only and only about this transition to the notification procedure. This, although the experts are almost unanimous, was then unanimous among the members of the committee, i.e. there is a motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u121	Does the Minister want to speak at this stage, or will you listen? — Minister Berner, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u122	Mr President! The Government's proposal to amend the Postal Act is under discussion. The Parliament has been dealing with a reform of the current administratively burdensome system of postal licences granted by the Government, which would be converted into a lighter, non-declaratory system. The committee dealt with the proposal quickly, and I would therefore like to thank the Committee on Transport and Communications for the rapid handling that will allow genuine deregulation. During the preparation of the proposal, we asked for opinions from different market players and authorities, and almost all of those who issued the opinion considered the objectives of the proposal to abolish standards, reduce the administrative burden and reduce barriers to entry into the postal sector to be supported. The same message was expressed by stakeholders during the committee's deliberations, as the president said. The proposal will enable the emergence of new postal services in the future, and will also contribute to the improvement of the capacity of newspaper companies to operate, since they can now distribute letters in connection with their own distribution of newspapers. This is important because, as the committee also pointed out in its opinion, the number of letters has clearly decreased in recent years due to the increasing use of electronic communications and the general trend in electrification. In its opinion, the Committee stressed the importance of continuing to ensure high-quality and affordable postal services for citizens throughout the country, despite the need to reduce regulatory burden. The committee also highlighted the second phase of the reform of the Postal Act, which will be prepared to secure safe and high-quality postal services for all Finns. Mr President! As has certainly been shown above, I am pleased with the way in which the postal bill was dealt with in Parliament. I see that this change is a step towards a new type of postal services that will benefit both postal companies and their customers as high-quality and diverse postal services throughout the country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u123	Mr President! Minister! The Government's proposal to amend the Postal Act provides for the waiver of the postal licence granted by the Government and instead for the transition to electronic prior notification to the Finnish Communications Agency. This is exactly the opposite of the position taken by the Committee on Transport and Communications with regard to the authorisation of 2010. The committee then saw the terms of the licence as a key mechanism to influence the functioning of the market and the safeguarding of the universal service. The granting of a postal licence was then transferred from the Ministry to the Government. A simple electronic prior notification is an inadequate tool for the authorities. Postal services are such an important tool in society that it must be possible to assess companies in this sector in advance. It is also worth noting that the draft law would remove all requirements concerning the current licensing system regarding the regularity and quality of postal operations, the sufficient resources of the company and the long-term organisation of postal operations. This change would also allow the new company to stop providing postal services to its customers at two weeks’ notice. The wide opening of the competition would undermine Post's ability to operate. Without the burden of universal service obligations, new operators could roll cream off and focus on profitable areas and profitable products, such as letters from companies. During the last parliamentary term, it was estimated that this would cost the country millions of euros, which should be paid to Post in charge of universal service. So in the future, the government would have no reason to expect a dividend from Posti. Last year, EUR 18 million of dividends came from Posti to the treasury. In the future, those euros will roll into private bags. Mr President! They represent the people, and we must promote the common interest, not the interests of a small circle. This amendment to the Postal Act will not benefit the citizens. On the contrary, citizens' postal services are most likely to deteriorate as the economic base of the current service level crumbles. Ensuring adequate and uniform postal services throughout the country is now and will be the task of the state. New players will focus on profitable corporate mail in urban areas and would not manage the post offices of people living in sparsely populated areas. As a result of this amendment of the law, we may conclude that in sparsely populated areas mail would no longer be delivered on five working days a week, but less often because the money is being taken away from Post. People would be put in an unequal position in different parts of Finland. Under the EU Postal Directive, only situations or geographical circumstances considered exceptional may differ from the five-day delivery. This is Sipilä's government's regional policy? Discipline the people in the countryside. Don't they also have this public service? Has regional policy now given way to the market and the promotion of regional equality been swept under the carpet? There are always options in politics, even though the government is trying to argue otherwise. The government is taking Finland in the wrong direction at the moment, but it can and must be reversed, and that is why we are going to propose that this bill be rejected. Mr President! Today we are celebrating an international day of freedom of speech. The Union of Newspapers has rightly been concerned that if Posti’s distribution dates become fewer, what will happen to their operating conditions, the open access of Finns to information and the functioning of democracy. It is also necessary to mention that there has been a lot of fear management, especially from Posti. Principal confidence representatives and occupational safety and health commissioners have been instructed what to say to the public. Efforts are being made to silence people in the workplace and attempts have been made to make the activities of shop stewards more difficult, including by stopping the payment of kilometric compensation. Matti Wiberg, a professor of political science at the University of Turku, wrote as a May Day in his blog that we cannot afford the most knowledgeable in any field. Freedom of expression is guaranteed in Chapter 2 of the Constitution12,Article 10 of the European Convention Freedom of expression means the right to express and receive information and opinions without prejudice to anyone. Post office workers also have these fundamental rights. They must have the right, truthfully and rightly, to criticise their employer when there is cause for it. Mr President! The results of the Posti personnel survey last autumn support the perception of poor management. Other state-owned companies have also received a similar message. The employee seems to be the biggest enemy of the company in the Post. Workers have felt threatened, blackmailed and accused. Now this policy of silence There has also been a spread in the postal sector among us parliamentarians — by the Prime Minister’s Party. This is the management style of the people in power? The Members of Parliament have extended their freedom of expression. According to the Constitution, a Member of Parliament has the right to speak freely about all the issues under discussion and to deal with them and to criticise social abuses or abusers of power. The Prime Minister directs state-owned companies, and it is justifiable to ask why personnel policy has deteriorated in Posti. Why has the Prime Minister not called for a good staff policy? People are dismissed at the same time as temporary workers and the Director receives a salary of EUR 50000 per month. Nor are employees told anything, and they feel that they are no longer appreciated. All state companies must be exemplary in personnel policy and reasonable in management salaries. This is one of the SDP's objectives for the development of state ownership policy. The policy of state ownership, which is based on zero-hour contracts and wage-earners' billing, is not on a sustainable basis. It will not bring about growth and employment. A person who is not certain of his salary does not build a house does not spend money on services purchased from companies, does not buy and spend. In this case, the wheels do not rotate, but stop, as has now happened in Finland. Fortunately, the trade union, through a long legal struggle, was able to control the price of free distribution companies, which was perhaps a greater act for Posti's competitiveness than any action by Posti's management.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u124	Mr President! As you heard, one of the signatories to this protest has just given a speech, and it is rather thin to join this government proposal. In other words, this is a good illustration of the way in which this matter is dealt with and progressed. There were very few objections to the substance of the matter, to these red tape procedures, to the notification procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u125	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u126	Mr President! It is a pity that Minister Berner — and I am glad that he has been here for a while — has now left and has not listened to this debate. He, if anyone, knows about his own civilian occupation and could have been able to shed light on his own view of the way in which, admittedly, there have been many questionable aspects of the management of Posti, the way in which such an example is conducted in the business world. The competitiveness of postal services has been in great difficulty for a long time — and I am speaking here as a member of the Board of Directors of Post, I am not a member of the Committee on Transport and Communications, but I am well aware of this issue, thoroughly, through the work of that board. In this regard, opposition groups in the committee have tabled a joint rejection motion. And yes, this is in order when we see that this postal law is very contradictory from the point of view of the market. As a general rule, the committee supports the emphasis on free and fair competition. However, the Committee's report places expectations on the second stage of the reform of the postal law as regards universal service obligations and citizens' services, and it is emphasised very strongly in this opinion that universal service obligations must be maintained and treated equally, but when this equation does not work properly. The Committee's report states that the postal distribution network can be regarded as a basic infrastructure for society and that the delivery of mail is essential for citizens and business. This is real. Many of the authorities’ activities are also still based on letter distribution. The Committee therefore stresses the importance of continuing to ensure reliable, high-quality and affordable postal services for citizens throughout the country, despite the need to reduce regulation and change the market situation. Now Minister Berner has gone away, and I think the chairman of the committee has gone away too, and now no one is answering how this equation is actually being implemented. Hopes are great, they want to be set free, they want to be kept, but it seems like two horses are going to shoot here. The horses are about to go in a different direction, and the rider falls to the ground on his ass.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u127	Mr President! Accurate and flawless delivery of mail is part of the basic infrastructure of society, which has been so for decades, even centuries. And even if many of us Finns would like to do as much of our online business as possible without touching paper, it is still necessary to do things with many authorities and companies, and even with banks, to have a reasonably quick and absolutely flawless flow of mail, so that there are no cases that I mentioned in the referral debate of this government's proposal, because we in Finland have not been prepared to give up paperwork like Denmark. In Denmark, the situation is that citizens and businesses are legally obliged to deal with the authorities only electronically and that the authorities receive paper mail only in exceptional circumstances, for example when a person has a disease that prevents the use of a computer. Therefore, as the reliability of Posti remains essential to the functioning of society, it is necessary to regulate and monitor Post's operations with the same degree of accuracy as our other critical basic infrastructure. For this reason, I do not believe that a mere declaration is a sufficient procedure for starting postal operations. If anything goes wrong, it's gonna take some time to fix the tracks and it's gonna cost you a lot of money. Therefore, the sustainability and reliability of new postal service providers must be able to be assessed in advance before the start of operations. For example, has correspondence been properly handled? How is the security of personal data, address information managed? How to change the address? How to transport returned messages or messages to the wrong address or messages made with false address information? All of these must be able to be assessed first before the postal operations can start. Secondly, it must be remembered that the majority of Finland, almost the whole of Finland, is a sparsely populated or very sparsely populated region where the box covers of mail are not economically viable. These areas will not be of interest to private postal companies. These areas will therefore remain, for example, to be dealt with by a company which is subject to universal service obligations, in practice our old Post, unless the State starts buying these universal service services. In any case, because of the unprofitable postal services in these sparsely populated areas The postal service is also unable to compete in urban areas because its prices cannot possibly be competitive with companies operating only in urban areas and focusing on profitable business letters. Or we should ban Posti from engaging in unprofitable activities, or else it must be financed in some other way. Mr President! I am afraid — and this is speculation, as the chairman of the committee has pointed out — that we will soon not have postal services like in urban areas or, if not, in sparsely populated areas as a state-ordered service once or twice a week. In view of the above, the Green Parliamentary Group will also join in the rejection motion mentioned by Mr Taavitsainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u128	Madam President! It is quite true that this development of postal services has been taking place for decades and has been generated by e-mails of agents and so on, dismantled standards, a number of things have certainly been found along the way with proper arguments and time to live, but still the postal service should be seen as a whole. In this phase of the first legislative reform of the Postal Act it must be remembered that, in the autumn, apparently, the second phase of the Postal Act is coming. At this stage I will be wondering what will happen in this second phase, what kind of pain will the government have within it when the postal services are being broken down by the legislation relating to the traditional tasks and duties of Posti. Is there going to be cream peeling? This Parliament has long been suspected of it, and even after this first stage, the question will only become even stronger. It is easy to understand the views of the signatories of the objection at this stage. Posti is Finland’s largest employer with over 20,000 employees. So it's not about a small player. I can say this as Vice-President of the Committee on Defence that, from the consumer's point of view, the activities of Posti can, of course, be viewed from a number of points of view, both as regards letter mail and parcel mail, but one of the things that is being carried in the post office is the call for repetition. If a possible three-day distribution is to take place in the future, it is justifiable even now to ask in what ways — at the same time as trying to develop legislation on preparedness for faster refresher invitations and so on — this postal law will make it more difficult to invite resumers to rehearsing exercises.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u129	Mr President! As the chairman of the committee said in his own speech, this move towards notification is the main thrust of this proposal. Personally, I don't see any problem with that. It is possible to move on to the notification procedure and thus to facilitate bureaucracy. Even today, journalists in many areas manage distribution, and therefore there will be little such change in those areas. It is true that, during this term of government, there will probably be a second stage here in the Chamber of Parliament, and then we will have to define and carefully consider what this universal service obligation is: how many days a week will the letters be distributed? In this regard, Mr Kari raised this invitation for a refresher exercise. It's great if it comes in five days, but if we move on to three days, it's practically just a day late for an invitation. That I do not believe that the Finnish defence will fall into that day's delay, but of course this is something that needs to be taken into account in the second phase. On this day of freedom of speech, the word is also free in this Chamber, but I am somewhat surprised by Mr Taavitsainen's view of this postal law and the loss of freedom of speech. What was the connection? That's the connection I didn't quite notice from this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u130	Mr President! This government proposal is based on a de-standardisation project. The committee has, admittedly, listened to these postal operators on a very broad scale, and this has been quite unanimous, as the chairman of the committee pointed out. This debate, which has now taken place here, is very close to my region. We had a similar debate in Ylivieska about two years ago when we moved on to distributing magazines to a private company. That was the same concern in those debates too, namely that the postal services in sparsely populated and peripheral areas are now not being distributed. But at least at the moment everyone has been very satisfied with this distribution service, what is being done. For example, mail goes to our mailbox a few times a week — not every day, because the letter mail no longer carries the same amount as it used to. Personally, I would see that this proposal, and this report in particular, is an exceptionally good one, and I am very happy to support this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u131	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 4/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. This is presented by the chairman of the committee, Mr Haatainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u132	Madam President! The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was adopted by Parliament in March 2015 and it was then required that, before the ratification of the Convention was completed, the conditions for ratification of Article 14 of the Convention should be ensured by national law. This government proposal proposes to amend the law on special care for people with mental disabilities to meet these conditions for ratification and then to include provisions on measures to support self-determination and self-determination, to reduce the use of restrictive measures and to introduce general conditions for the use of restrictive measures. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers the ratification of this Convention to be important for the realisation of the rights of people with disabilities. In turn, limiting fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution requires sufficiently precise and precise legislation. There is only one general provision for the use of restrictive measures in the current Act on Impairment. As a result of the amendments now proposed, the various restrictive measures against disabled people have a significant share in the content and justification of the law. At the same time, regulation becomes quite detailed in this legislation. The committee therefore stresses the starting point that the proposed measures are the last resort for the special care of people with mental disabilities, i.e. these restrictive measures, and are only available when other measures are not sufficient and only for the necessary time. The Committee therefore considers it essential that special care should continue to reduce the need for restrictive measures by using and developing different preventive approaches and by promoting the opportunities for people with mental disabilities to live normally. Continuous development of personnel competence and interaction skills is also very important for the success of care and maintenance. Mr President! The committee proposes the adoption of a draft law, mainly with amendments resulting from the opinion of the Constitutional Committee. The committee believes that these changes will improve the legal security of persons with disabilities in special care and will bring Finnish legislation to the level required for the ratification of the UN CRPD. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs issued an opinion on this government proposal that the draft law may be dealt with in the order in which the ordinary law is adopted, provided that these constitutional observations of the committee are duly taken into account. In view of the nature of the matter, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered it necessary for the Committee on Social Affairs and Health to re-evaluate the Constitutional Committee if the committee decided to propose new legislation on the use of restrictive measures. In its draft report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposed, in the light of the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, to amend the provisions of the Government's proposal. The draft report included, among other things, extensive proposals for restrictive measures. That is why the Committee on Social Affairs and Health asked the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a new opinion on the amendments to the draft report to that government bill. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the draft law, i.e. this amended proposal by the committee, can be dealt with in the order in which the ordinary law is adopted, but it considered it justified to supplement the draft law. In its report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has taken account of these opinions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and supplemented the draft law and its explanatory statement. Mr President! The proposed amendments to the Act on Mental Impairment are now designed to support and promote the self-determination and independent performance of persons in special care so that every person with disabilities in special care has the opportunity to participate fully in society. The Committee notes that the implementation of the objectives of the proposal requires a major effort in the implementation of the law, and in particular in training and guidance. Changes must also be communicated in an understandable form to users of services and to their loved ones. The committee shares the view of disability organisations that strengthening self-determination and reducing the use of restrictive measures are also linked to attitudes, practices and structures of services which are essential to influence. Mr President! For example, due to the precise nature and precision requirements of the Act on Mental Impairment, the regulation will be detailed, which may make it difficult for it to be applied in practice. Like the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Committee therefore considers it necessary to monitor the practical implementation of the legislation and proposes the following statement: "The Commission requires that the government closely monitor the impact of the legislation on the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities and continue to develop the regulation of self-determination." This motion was otherwise dealt with unanimously in committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u133	Mr President! It is good that this bill is finally at this stage and that we can complete the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The purpose of this law is to support, in accordance with the spirit of the UN Convention, the self-determination and independence of persons in special care so that the possibility of full participation in society can be realised. Securing the most normal life in housing units and institutions intended for people with mental disabilities reduces the need to resort to restrictive measures. The exercise of the right to self-determination requires more than legislative changes. This requires changes in attitudes and practices. There are already many places where the spirit of this law is acclaimed, but unfortunately there are also care communities that have a lot of work to do. This law provides the framework conditions for development and change. One thing to be developed would be to give up talking about housing units and rather talk about community homes, because words matter. But the law alone is not enough, and therefore the Committee on Social Affairs and Health's proposal to monitor the impact of legislation on the exercise of the rights of people with disabilities and to continue to develop self-determination must be strongly supported. I would also like to mention the last paragraph of the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which says two fundamental things. Firstly, it says that'restrictive measures can only be used under the conditions laid down by law' and that'restrictive measures must not be used for any other reason. For example, the lack of staff or other equivalent financial or operational conditions do not justify the use of restrictive measures". I think it is good that it is so forcefully said. Secondly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses that the use of restrictive measures is always a last resort. This sentence highlights the professionalism of workers. Skilled workers have a wider range of tools in their toolbox to deal with people with mental disabilities on an equal footing and with respect for self-determination. You can't just work in nursing and nursing, you need skills and skills. Now that this important legislative proposal is at this stage, I hope that the bill for the self-determination of other vulnerable citizens will also be completed quickly. I myself am the Chairman of the Memory Federation, and I can say that the self-determination of people with memory disorders in our society and in our care and care practices is still very inadequately realised. This requires support from the legislation in order to bring these care cultures and the attitude of society to a change in the way that people with memory problems also have the right to self-determination.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u134	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 5/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u135	Madam President! This proposal by the Board of Directors complements the provisions on risk management of employment pension institutions, i.e. pension institutions must regularly prepare a risk and solvency assessment as part of risk management. This assessment will help to highlight the responsibility of the Board of Directors of the pension institution for investment activities. This applies to private sector pension institutions. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considered that it would be appropriate to provide for a similar obligation to cover Keva's investment activities, and considered it necessary to start drafting legislation to this end. This Government proposal also proposes to extend the fixed-term law allowing housing companies as subsidiaries of occupational pension insurance companies to use debt in real estate investments as from 1 January 2015. It is proposed to extend the validity of the current fixed-term law by two years, i.e. until the end of 2019. In its opinion, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposed an extension of the deadline by, for example, four years. We received Minister Mäntylä's letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, in which the Ministry submitted to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health a proposal to extend the validity of the fixed-term law to the end of 2022 instead of the government proposal. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers it necessary to extend this deadline on the grounds set out above and proposes to amend the entry into force of the second draft law as proposed in the Minister's letter. This committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-03-ps-47.u136	The 20th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 29 April 2016.
