ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u2	Congressman Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u3	Madam President! The employment situation is very worrying and, for example, the recent news about VR's redundancies is very sad and leaves questions about the current situation in corporate governance. President! The government has promised 110,000 new jobs, which means nearly 30,000 new jobs per year. The government has said that this goal has been cut in stone. Next week, when the government meets in the spending limits debate to evaluate the results and make the line of action, it is certainly good to see where we are now. President! There are no more jobs than last year; there are no more jobs than last year; there are fewer jobs than last year; there are fewer jobs than last year, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Stubb. In other words, the government is very worryingly separated from its own objectives in the opposite direction. Mr Stubb, how did this happen?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u4	The maximum length of questions and answers is also 1 minute in this Question Time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u5	Madam President! On the way to the spending limits debate, the government actually has three key objectives, all of which are linked to our government programme. 1) We are sticking to the overall adjustment of EUR 4 billion. 2) We strive to break the debt by 2019. And of course 3) is that we adhere to our good old spending limits rule, which I think started at Matti Vanhanen’s first government in 2003. If we reach a good decision on the spending limits, combined with a good social solution and a social agreement that is ambitiously put to the finish, then we will continue to stick to the objective of our government programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u6	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u7	Mr President! The fact is, however, that the government has not taken any employment measures last year, it is not doing them this year and there is a worrying delay in the objectives. You have had little hands crossed, and this is exactly what we warned you about last autumn: if employment measures are not taken, we will end up in a vicious spiral of cutting, which is disastrous. But now, President, I am a little confused about what the government intends to do in its spending limits. Indeed, it seems that the government itself from within has begun to be a little horrified by this process, and at least the city centre and the Finns are now putting a little brake on these additional cuts. So the look is on you, Minister Stubb. Will you, like the Finns Party and the Centre Party, put the brakes on these additional cuts, or will you really bring more cuts in addition to the cuts you have already made to the daily lives of citizens?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u8	Madam President! So, of course, we have a government programme and we have to stick to the government programme. Then there are actually two things that we are looking at. The first is the framework by 2019 — whether we stick to the undivided reserve in 2019. The second is EUR 4 billion and the adjustments. The adjustments are also linked to the sustainability gap, which will have to reach 6 billion by 2021 and around 10 billion by 2030. This is not about additional savings or additional cuts, but about an adjustment that has not been made during this first year of government either because of errors of calculation or because of decisions not taken or because decisions have not yet been implemented. I believe that this spending limits decision will also be a good one, one that is credible from the point of view of all Finns, which is credible from the Commission's point of view and which is also credible from the point of view of the rating agency.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u9	Mr President! This job development has been very gloomy over the last four years. The number of unemployed in the last period increased by 100 000, and we are going to make a clear turn in the other direction during this term of government. The main task of the government to reverse employment developments is a social pact, which is in a very good model now. It is part of collective bargaining and the combined objective of its action is 35,000 new jobs. The impact of this has been estimated by labour market organisations to be up to 45,000 new jobs. I believe that by the end of May, when this is taken decisively to the end of May, this will reverse the trend in an entirely different direction and will meet one third of this goal of 110,000 new jobs. We are determined to follow up
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u10	Madam President! Everyone knows, of course, that the general economic situation is our big problem. As long as it dwindles, there will be no investment and no jobs. But today the employees' research institute has already reported that there is a rise in sight, and that is positive. The construction sector in particular is the engine here, which is, fortunately, where there is light. I can't help believing that's how this goes. Of course, these measures, as the Prime Minister said there — the social pact and its goal in such a way that it benefits the whole of Finland — are extremely important. At the same time, there is this structural change in the management of unemployment, and we are about to bring this passive security into active security in the next few days, i.e. using the so-called state-funded unemployment benefits to finance mobility grants, start-up grants and pay subsidies, and this is coming, so that we can have this tool, which is also proposed by the SDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u11	Madam President! Prime Minister, you said that now the government's aim is to bring about a turning point, and you have said that 110,000 new jobs are the promise given to Finns by the government. You have said that it has been cut into stone, even the term used is that it is "the result or out". But now that the government is meeting at the spending limits panel to assess this first year and to make new policies, let us see where this objective of yours goes. 110,000 new jobs mean nearly 30,000 jobs per year. Now there are actually no more jobs in this country, not the same number, but less than when your government started. This is what you're trying to do. And why does it run away? It escapes because you have neglected to support growth and employment and have focused so much on cuts that even the Group Chairman of the Finns Party has said that the way of the cuts has now been completed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u12	Madam President! Firstly, a reminder, which is why we are taking these decisions: because, at the moment, over the last few years, at public level, we are in debt of around EUR 9 billion a year. Over the last six years, we have roughly doubled our debt. In practice, this means that we are taking on the debt that our children and our grandchildren are paying for. The fact is that without improving the employment situation — and in that, Mr Lindtman, you are absolutely right — we will not be able to turn this around. That is why it is important that: (a) we stick to the decision on the spending limits and the debate on the spending limits; and (b) we take the type of employment measures that can be found, for example, in the social pact that we have in the local agreement so that we can find more jobs in this country. Work creates work. That's why we make decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u13	Mr President! This is one of the main objectives of the government: 110000 new jobs and thus raising the employment rate to 72%. If this 100,000 new unemployed had been avoided in the last period, we would certainly not be in this situation. Then we would have an employment rate of 72%, and there would also be no need for cuts. But now we're here and now. We are going to have to make cuts at the same time, to seek employment and growth-enhancing measures and to carry out long-term reforms, and all these will be done by this government during this parliamentary term. A significant number of decisions have already been taken and more will be taken in the spending limits debate next week.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u14	Mr President! I would like to say, of course, that in this last decade the leading party in debt is a coalition: EUR 99 billion. However, I would like to ask whether the government has carried out an overall assessment of the impact of these measures on employment. I have understood from various sources that officials now have some 60,000 jobs, all combined with government measures. Is this in line with your opinion, Prime Minister? Sipilä, the total number of jobs, building a whole set of government measures, or do you still have something in your back pocket that we do not know?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u15	Mr President! The overall impact of these measures will be assessed at all times. This will be done next in the spending limits debate, and it is clear that more needs to be done to achieve the goal of 110,000 new jobs. These actions are being prepared. I'm sure we'll hear the first of them after the spending limits. We have important measures to tackle entrepreneurship, lowering the employment threshold. In a few weeks' time, the following proposals will also come to this House, we will talk about measures to reduce the employment threshold. There is a long list of these activities in the Government Programme. They will all be made and assessed at all times whether or not they will be sufficient for the 110,000 new jobs, and further decisions will be taken if necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u16	Madam President! Everyone recognises that cuts are undermining economic growth and employment. It's obvious. But it is also up to us to break down the growth of debt. What's the way to do that? Is it massive cuts, or is it employment policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u19	Mr President! Mr Arhinmäki is right to say that these unemployment expenditures are about the same as the deficit in the state budget. Therefore, one of our main ways of getting the state finances in order is to raise the employment rate to 72%. Even in many ways, I agree with Mr Arhinmäki — not all — and we are also making an assessment of what public sector investment we can mobilise in order to improve employment development. That's what they're doing. But we don't do it with debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u20	Mr President, ärade talman! Every young person who is excluded experiences personal suffering, and every young person who is excluded also pays a considerable amount to the state. In our shadow budget, we proposed investing in outreach youth work, developing a youth guarantee and creating a mini-job model for young people under the age of 30. In this model, the type of work that fits under a certain number of hours would have been exempted from the employer's contribution. It would be access to employment for young people at risk of exclusion and, of course, for young people in general. So both society and young people would win. I would like to ask the Minister in charge: should the introduction of mini-jobs or mini-jobs not be considered as a means of improving employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u21	Madam President! That is a good question. All the options that are also being put forward about the opposition are taken seriously. The rapporteur, Maria Kaisa Aula, whose task was to identify these obstacles to employment has submitted her report and has a wide range of measures. This, too, which you have presented, I have heard and I am fully aware of your presentation. At some point in this spring, we will be laying down guidelines, which will then be the experiments that will move on, who will then be the subjects of the experiment, the groups that will be selected. My own opinion is that we choose as diversely as possible from different regions, but this decision and this policy are still to be taken. But we must take seriously this proposal and all the proposals that have come from here in connection with the removal of these barriers to employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u22	Mr President! Employment is the most important aspect of the government programme and must be pursued in the short and long term and with various reforms. There are things that we have already been able to do, such as the liberalisation of shop opening hours and other, smaller questions in relation to the dismantling of standards. The most important thing is not to resort to any kind of trick job creation, but to create market-based jobs that strengthen and do not weaken public finances. In this respect, Finland is reaching an historic turn in the form of a social pact. When it comes to it, Finland will finally move into an EU era in its economy, which really protects and protects our jobs in an open economy. This is the great effort that this whole society has made for employment, but it does not come into being in the moment or in the moment. That is why I am asking the minister concerned: is it reasonable now, like the opposition, to monitor this employment on a flat-rate scale, or can it be assumed that these reforms will be more effective at the end of the parliamentary term than at the beginning?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u23	Madam President! Mr Terho is at the very heart of the matter in the sense that the main objective of the government, as I am sure we all do, is to have permanent jobs. What is happening now, so to speak, in the interim period, is on the one hand the management of unemployment, and that too has been the aim of structural change in order to obtain the money that Mr Arhinmäki said, a huge amount of money, for more efficient use. The word 'impact' is actually the word I am looking for: the way in which we really get those people to do what is reasonable in the most cost-effective way possible, so that it is not passive, it is activating, and that work is of course being done. The main objective of all of this, the main objective and the core of this government programme, is, of course, to get permanent jobs in this country, not by one or two measures, but by the combined effect of all of these.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u24	Mr President! In this Chamber, the demeanor of employment measures has been used only on the right side of the hall from the assembly. But it was shocking to hear that the Finns also call employment policy a trick job. Thousands of Finnish unemployed, thousands and thousands of families get a break from a difficult, severe situation when they can benefit from employment policy, which has been actively practiced in this society in the past. When private demand is weak, it is the responsibility of the public authorities to organise and maintain employment activities, to maintain employment appropriations. Mr President! Tuesday is the crucial spending limits for this country. At that time, we must find solutions to the employment situation. Mr Stubb, are you going to make sure that the Finnish unemployed get some hope for the future from the spending limits debate? Are you going to ensure that the employment budget is restored to the level that we can again employ Finns, such as last year?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u25	Madam President! Of course, we look at the framework and the spending limits argument as a whole. When we had bilateral discussions with ministries and ministers on expenditure increases, there were roughly between EUR 300 million and EUR 400 million. When we look at the overall need for adjustment that we are trying to achieve in order to maintain the savings target of EUR 4 billion, the figures are, in fact, quite contrary. Of course, we are looking for decisions that stick to our objective and which will also help and drive employment forward. I would also like to emphasise: There's been a lot of talk here about whether we can invest in some kind of debt. The answer is that we can't. Actually, it's pretty simple. Already today, our debt management costs are around EUR 1.6 billion per year. Compare this with children's allowances, the total cost is roughly EUR 1.4 billion. The More Debt
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u26	Madam President! It is quite clear that a change of line is now needed. Mr President! Mr Stubb, you have told us that your heart is beating on Thatcher. If he has not taken your heart completely now, would it give way to these good goals of the SDP? You wouldn't be able to turn them down just because they came from the SDP, would you?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u28	Next question, Congressman Wave.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u29	Madam President! Minister of Finance Alexander Stubb swore and assured about four months ago that the proposal for a management register was buried and buried. I would like to rely on the Minister's word, so why does the Government's proposal, contrary to all promises, include the possibility for Finnish companies to register for management abroad through the back gate? The whole problem of tax avoidance and the concealment of ownership could be prevented so that the requirement for publicity of ownership would apply to Finnish companies both in Finland and abroad. Is the government going to correct its proposal in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u30	Madam President! Since the whole is so difficult, I will go over some of my answers from the paper. The first point is that this bill does not include an extension of management registration in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u31	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u32	Madam President! The exception to the securities regulation negotiated by Finland during the last parliamentary term is good. It is good because it enables Finland's own system based on the disclosure of ownership in Finland. The derogation negotiated by Finland will remain in force for as long as current legislation is in force. Is the government trying to scrap Finland's own good system by making new legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u33	Madam President! No, it's not. We stick to our own legislation and implement the EU regulation as it stands.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u34	Mr President! It is important for society as a whole that the ownership of economic decision-makers and politicians is public information. It will also be possible to assess whether or not it will affect their activities and how it will affect them. Transparency of stock exchange holdings is also important from the perspective of other owners and investors. It reduces the investor's risk when the holdings are known. It has been an important issue in Finland and is widely appreciated in society. This government proposal does not take advantage of the possibility that the derogation negotiated by Finland itself for the central securities depository regulation would enable Finnish companies to issue these ownership papers abroad, so it could also be required to use methods with direct customer ownership, as well as in Finland. In other words, it would be possible to avoid this use of management registers abroad and to make it easier for you to do so. So, Mr Government, why do you make it easier to use management registration abroad when Finland has negotiated an exemption to prevent it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u35	Madam President! I repeat: we are in a situation where the right of a Finnish listed company to choose a foreign CSD is directly monitored by the EU regulation that entered into force in autumn 2014. A stock exchange company chooses a CSD and the law applicable to the system comes with its choice. We do not have the possibility, as in Finland, to restrict the EU regulation or the national legislation of other EU countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u36	Mr President! It is true what the regulations of the European Union say. Nevertheless, the Finnish Parliament has the opportunity to decide on a number of issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u39	Madam President! I'm sure there's two things on the table here. One is the right of a Finnish private investor to invest in something abroad, and the other is the activity of a Finnish listed company. In both these cases, we are applying Finnish legislation and the legislation that stems from this single EU regulation. If the Committee on Finance or the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has specific examples and ways of doing things differently within the framework of legislation, then of course they will be followed by expert consultations, and otherwise.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u40	Madam President! This CSD Regulation, this government proposal, has already been amended a great many times, and I think this is the third one. This has been going in the right direction all the time, so to speak. Among other things, as I recall, small investors are already satisfied with this government proposal. Now that the opposition is asking whether the government will change its proposal, I now hope that it will not change, but that we will be able to begin this parliamentary debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. As far as these fears are concerned, as the opposition has now expressed, this approach goes so far as to allow opposition representatives to deal with this issue in committee. However, when I understand that transparency is the will of both the government and the opposition, then we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs will have the opportunity to see that this openness [President MariaLohela : Herein lies the question. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u43	But Mr. Niinistö... — Ah, Minister Stubb wishes to comment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u44	Madam President! That's right.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u45	Mr President! Mr Skinner pointed out at the heart of this point that our legislation allows us to require that the documents issued by a Finnish listed company both in Finland and abroad be issued directly through customer ownership also in international CSDs, and this is a procedure in accordance with this EU regulation. This is the procedure used in Finland. If competition is possible, foreign operators can also be used, but the ownership would remain open. Now the big question is why the government is not doing this, at the same time, with such a change of law, which ensures that, while competition is increasing and foreign centres can be used, there too, a direct Finnish operator can be identified so that who is the owner. I would like to emphasise that it is an important value in this society that ownership is known. It is in the interest of investors, it is in the interest of the market, it is also in the interest of transparency in relation to the ownership of economic and political elites.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u46	Madam President! If I understand Mr Niinistö and Mr Skinner's question correctly, it is a question of restricting the investor's activities. The answer to this question is that the investor's obligation to use a direct account abroad would not be based on any EU provision. This would be a purely national additional regulation for Finnish companies' shares only,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u47	Next question, Mr. Pekonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u48	Mr President! During the last term of the government, we were able to establish an important old-age service law that protects the services that our elderly need. Now you, the good operating government, are once again attacking the elderly by weakening this law and reducing nurses, for example, from the institutions. When I myself worked in the infirmary as a nearby nurse, we had 32 patients in the ward. There were five nurses on the morning shift, three on the night and two on the night shift. The size was already scarce, especially in the evening shift, and there was little time for any more wonderful treatment, only the necessary ones. So I ask you, Minister, whether you believe that our elderly are being taken too good care of now, or whether there will be savings from institutional care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u49	Madam President! When the Old Age Services Act was enacted, the biggest thing that took place, or actually everything, was a nurse’s appointment. Why is that? It is true that the level and quality of care and care are important to the nursing system. But, on the other hand, there are just as reasoned answers and opinions that categorical reporting of a single chapter, both at the level of the law and otherwise, can be, on the contrary, not an improvement in the quality of care, but a reduction in it. Secondly, when Mr Pekonen asked if there were other options, even in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, we would have to look very closely at where new methods could be used to make better use of less resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u50	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u51	Mr President! Today, in the government, you have the habit of answering all the questions that, in spite of the cuts, very little will change, and here I interpreted a little of this answer from Minister Rehula. However, even this cut will ultimately achieve savings of up to EUR 70 million and we will have to take that money from somewhere. The home care of the elderly is already in a dreary state and there will be no additional funding for it. It's time to weaken institutional care. Of course, reducing the number of carers will also lead to redundancies and an increase in the workload of the remaining carers, i.e. more unemployed, exhausted workers and poorly managed elderly people. So I ask you, Minister: is it intended that only rich, well-managed elderly people should receive good care in the future? How are workers to be able to cope and workers to be made redundant?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u52	Madam President! Black doesn't change by talking white, neither does the colorful rhetoric of the day in which man lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u55	Mr President! Personally, I am very surprised at the brutal line taken by the government. You seem to always seek savings from those who are most vulnerable in society. Today, a seminar was held in Parliament on the issue of the government's intention to abolish the right to disability services for people with disabilities aged 75 and over, and the issue of how you guarantee equality, the right to services that meet the needs of these weakest people in society was well raised in the debate. An official of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health pointed out that the Ministry of Finance has given all administrations or ministries the task of making huge cuts, or, if there are no such proposals, then the VM will abolish all benefits or improvements to the services that have been made in Finland over the last 15 years. Do you know in that government that such a line will mean that human rights, fundamental rights and equality are being undermined in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u56	Mr President! The question ended with respect to international agreements. We are committed to the international agreements in which we are involved — such as the Istanbul Convention on the reduction of violence against women, and we in Parliament have ratified this UN Convention on the Disabled. As part of its ratification, the committee stated in its report during the last parliamentary term that we need to make certain legislative changes, for example with regard to the self-determination law, which will enable that ratified agreement to be fully concluded. In this work, which is carried out at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, for example, a very wide range of issues are being examined, for example, in a situation where the central government shares of municipalities have not been cut, which has enabled local government services to remain at the current level for the state, so that municipalities can have access to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u57	Mr President! This is a very important issue, and it is therefore appropriate that we also have these good points of view which the government has made. We have a number of parents at home who care for their own family or who care for their own mates. The Government has made a record in the Government Programme for the development of informal care and family care. In addition, a great deal of money has been earmarked for this. I would ask the minister concerned what action the government has taken, which will enable us to improve the status of family carers and also to ensure that those additional millions are targeted exactly where they belong.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u58	Mr President! Yesterday, 30 March, became public and open to the consultation of family carers and a bill that clearly improves the current situation for family carers. It is in the consultation and will come to Parliament before Midsummer to bring that law into force at the beginning of July this year. First of all, the law ensures that every carer — note. Each family carer, regardless of the age of the person in the family carer’s position, is entitled to leave. Secondly, the family nurse’s reward is increased, making family care a more attractive form of caring for a person close to home and facing that person. These are reduced, reduced, the clear changes to the current situation where safe old age is sought, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u59	Madam President! Ageing is a great achievement of Finnish society. The fact that we are living increasingly healthy and longer is an important issue, and it is great that, during the last period, a historic old age service law has been introduced, which is able not only to safeguard services but also to promote people's participation, so that they can be involved in society despite the fact that there is an increase in age. Last season, the unanimous will of the Parliament, Minister Rehula, the position of the committee that you were then chairing, was that if, in the follow-up to the Act on Care for the Elderly, that measure of care does not materialise, the law will be changed in a more binding direction and, as your predecessor, I prepared such a law — it will be ready there in a desk drawer, if the government would like to introduce it. I am concerned that, in the name of the norm, you are now making very drastic cuts to the position of a very large number of people. What will you answer to these staff representatives?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u60	Madam President! These proposals, which seek to find other ways of working, are, of course, part of the Act on services for the elderly. It will take time to prepare them. The final result, for example with regard to what is done in the Disability Services Act, will take about a year. But what is not being addressed and what is at the heart of the Act on Elderly Services is that the services supporting ageing remain at the current level. Secondly, Mrs Huovinen, you raised one aspect of the core of the Act on services for the elderly, the possibility of participation and involvement. Its own will in considering the need for service will be preserved. And thirdly, the assessment of the need for services and the availability of services within the timescale will continue to be one of the things we are not dealing with.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u61	Next question, Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u62	Madam President! In a preliminary study published yesterday on the options for implementing the basic income test, the working group decided to propose that the model of the partial basic income should be tested. The Christian Democrats' alternative, the basic incentive security, was also included in that preliminary study, but because we lack a real-time income register, it is not going to be tested. I would have liked to ask the Minister: while this model of partial basic income still needs to be maintained — the working group stated that, for example, the situation of a single parent will not be facilitated by the partial basic income — and the associated tax model may also lead to very high equal rates of taxation, whether the government is, however, on the road to this partial basic income experiment, since it already seems that most economists are
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u63	Mr President! Indeed yesterday, Olli Kangas and his working groups submitted this preliminary report, which is very extensive, very comprehensive. It has carried out very thorough work from many different points of view, and they have raised these well-founded views of their own as to where it would now be possible to move in this basic income experiment at all. In April, the government will now set out the ways forward that we believe are possible and we will make the follow-up. And, of course, we keep an open mind, and the goals are very clear as to what is intended. It is good that this public debate is now taking place actively and also highlights the pains and concerns that have now been raised in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u64	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u65	Madam President! It is very important that these models are still being carefully considered. And now that we know that, in the last budget, funding was provided for the establishment of such a national income register, would it be possible to wait for this good model, i.e. the basic incentive security developed by the Christian Democrats, and to take it to the test when we have access to this income register? That preliminary study points out that only this model of KD and, in addition, the negative income tax would be the type in which it would be worthwhile to proceed. However, all these other models are those that increase incentives traps and may also lead to a very high net tax rate, which will certainly congeal the purchasing power of the ordinary employee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u66	Mr President! The purpose of this basic income experiment is, of course, also to carry various types of studies forward. The basic income test alone is not enough to clarify our social security system; it requires a wide range of measures, including one of the government's top projects, namely this comprehensive study of the housing-based social security system. In other words, it is quite clear that basic income alone will not solve the problems and challenges associated with incentives traps or employment opportunities, but will require a wide range of different approaches. If I have understood correctly, this model of Christian Democrats is based on the universal credit model in Britain, which is very familiar to me, I have been very interested in it and I see very many good elements in it. And I certainly don't see why we should rule out something, but I think we should find it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u67	Mr President! It is very good that this basic income experiment, which was included in Sipilä’s government programme as a long-term goal, has now taken off the pace of that preliminary study. I believe that there is quite a consensus in this Chamber that our social security is currently one of the great jungles of things and that it does not encourage work enough. I therefore believe that all those who are hesitant about basic income should be open to this experiment. Then we'll know what we're talking about and how it could affect us. All measures to increase the profitability of employment and work are necessary and also to strengthen decent social security. Mr President! I would like to ask the minister responsible about that report yesterday. It also assesses proposals on who could be covered by this experiment, and makes proposals for a more extensive sample of different population groups and regions. What, Minister, are you thinking about that show?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u68	Mr President! Personally, I am very much in favour of this idea, because at the moment our social security system is, as is well known, quite a patchwork and there are very difficult income trap problems for many different groups of people. Personally, I see that if we want to obtain the maximum result benefit from any research, then we must also be prepared to look at the situation of the different population groups. At the moment, we have a number of different forms of social security that are granted, and it is quite clear that if we want to clarify the system, we must also be prepared to go through the various groups there and find the pain places where things can be done differently, precisely so that the individual can do better in that system, but also so that he can get to a situation where he does not need to rely on the transfers of income indefinitely, hopefully,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u69	Mr President! The Left Alliance is in favour of moving to a basic income sufficient to live, and we also welcome the fact that this is now being tried out. But when experimenting is done, it would also be good for it to be done properly. We regret that this experiment is now being carried out under rather strict economic conditions. I would also have asked the Minister: why have we ended up with such a very limited and small sample in this experiment? I would also like to know why young adults are now excluded from this basic income experiment. Young adults are among the lowest-income groups in the country, and especially young people's low-income income has also been on the increase. So if we want to explore new patterns of behavior like this, would it not be young people who would then be an excellent population group for it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u70	Mr President! I would stress that the government has not yet taken decisions on which sections of the population will be included in this experiment, which means that we will certainly be very open here and we will have discussions within the government. Of course, we must also consider the possibility that, when we go inside social security, it will also be possible, within its social security system, to make use of that social security as part of this experiment. So then it would give us a completely different opportunity to expand this experiment as well. But, as I said, these discussions we will have within the government, but we have not yet narrowed down anyone at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u71	Next question, Mr Haglund.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u72	Fru talman, Madam Speaker! A couple of weeks ago, tractors rolled into the centre of Helsinki and we were all able to follow this interesting demonstration. Farmers came to Helsinki for a good reason because their situation is very difficult. The fact is that According to the last report by the Natural Resources Agency, many farmers have even halved their income over the last two or four years, and this development is very worrying. I would have asked you now, Mr Prime Minister, as you really are approaching the spending limits debate, and you yourself have been concerned about the situation in your blog:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u73	Mr President! I think the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry will answer this in more detail. — This has been raised at the EU tables in the first place. The conclusions of the European Council have now come from a long time ago also to record this concern, and hopefully it will also lead to action from the point of view of facilitating this crisis through European crisis mechanisms. After all, there is now a licence for national action at the moment, and we will see what kind of national action we can take in this difficult economic situation. I hope that the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry will also have the opportunity to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u74	Mr President! Indeed, EU decisions have given us a little more room for manoeuvre at national level now, and what kind of additional financial effort there may be must now be seen in the context of the spending limits and the preparation of the amending budget. But what is very important is that we are able to increase the consumption of Finnish food, and we have started the preparation at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry for the Government to take a decision in principle in order to move on to Finnish animal welfare and environmental care standards in the catering services of the state administration.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u75	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u76	Madam President! This Minister The Tiilikainen message is very welcome, and this is already one good measure to help the situation. In the Government Programme, you have also promised various types of relief for administration and the dismantling of standards, which could contribute to the plight of many farmers. Could you tell me, Minister Tiilikainen, what's going on?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u77	Mr President! It's the easiest thing to start with what's in your own hands. For example, this autumn amendment to the nitrate regulation, which removed unnecessary investment needs from farmers, facilitates the organisation of practical farm work, the distribution of manure and so on, was the first step. What is more, we have been pushing for the Commission to do things that would, for example, reduce the number of livestock registers and the resulting obligations. Furthermore, the long-term objective that possible deviations in arable areas do not so easily lead to sanctions is under way. We have a very long list of things that then also require a wider decision at the end of the EU – they are not just in the Commission’s jumps – but we hope that we can influence the Commission’s decisions, and those in our own hands will move forward quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u78	Madam President! Yes, this culture of depopulation in relation to agricultural production is already getting to an end. Even the income of the agricultural population is made up of small brooks, and that is why I ask when, as far as I know, last year, some national subsidies were not used for some EUR 2 million: will you, Minister Tiilikainen, ensure that this amount is also directed towards the plight of agriculture and does not go to anything else in the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u79	Mr President! I do not think there is any concern that I would miss out on any of the euro, which is possible in this state-owned situation to make it easier for farmers to make a living. And, in fact, today, at its session, the Council of State took a decision in which the regulations on national aid were clarified in order to ensure that those euro notes and coins were accurately and fully available. However, aid alone will not improve the profitability of agriculture, but will bring the price on the market and good product sales are one of the key issues, and that is something we can promote in public finances. But we are also working hard to open up new export markets, because one of the major reasons for the plight of agriculture is the collapse of the Russian market, and we need to find replacements for it so that agricultural production in Finland can continue on its current scale.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u80	We have one more question to ask. Congressman Mölsä.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u81	Madam President! In many cases, construction in sparsely populated areas of municipalities and cities is effectively prevented by the so-called planning requirement in an area that the municipality may prescribe in a general formula or building order. The practice is varied and often leads to complaints about the building permit received by the Ely Centre, when the municipal construction project is effectively abandoned for a long time. As we remember, the Government's housing policy programme is essentially based on a commitment to clarify the land use and construction law in such a way as to improve the possibilities for construction, especially in sparsely populated areas. This is a trend that we Finns also warmly support. This will also increase activity in the regions and rural villages. I therefore ask the minister concerned: do you have any information on the stage at which this matter is being dealt with?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u82	Mr President! There's information. The zoning power lies with municipalities and regional planning power in the provinces, and the Sipilä Government has wanted this local decision-making power to be strengthened further. In fact, the law on the jurisdiction of exception has already been adopted, i.e. the powers of exception have been transferred from ely centres to municipalities. That law will come into force tomorrow, regulation in a few weeks. On the other hand, this bill, which restricts the appeal possibilities of the Ely Centres, is in preparation, and I will bring it to the House for further consideration this year. More broadly, the government's aim is to liberalise construction where there is space, i.e. in rural and sparsely populated areas, and in fact that report from the archipelago council a couple of weeks ago shows that people increasingly want to spend time in leisure homes. They are better equipped, and as broadband plays, teleworking opportunities will also improve. We also want to offer willing people the opportunity to change leisure homes
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u83	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, LaVM 2/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u84	Madam President! This government proposal is about a significant change which will require measures from the holders of pledge books whose pledges are only in paper form. Their validity expires in 2019. This is also a good indication of how digitalisation should be promoted. The fact that old written pledges can no longer be used as of 2020 to establish a new pledge means that a customer seeking a new credit must apply for the conversion of old written pledges to an electronic format or apply for confirmation of a new mortgage by means of an electronic pledge. According to the proposal, the costs incurred by the authorities for the electronic conversion of the written pledge shall be borne by the applicant, i.e. the holder of the written pledge, in accordance with the State Payment Grounds Act. At present, EUR 17 per mortgage is charged for the conversion of the written deposit book into an electronic deposit book and EUR 33 for the confirmation of the new mortgage by an electronic deposit book. Such a one-off cost for the customer can be considered to be limited and reasonable when compared to other credit costs incurred by the borrower. The Legal Affairs Committee therefore considered this to be a very important record that such a one-off cost would not be unduly costly for the customer. This proposal will allow the mass conversion of written pledges already held by credit institutions into electronic pledges. Given the large number of written pledges, this could entail one-off significant costs. According to a report received by the Legal Committee, these remain the responsibility of credit institutions. In order to promote mass conversion, it is therefore important that such conversion can be carried out as cost-effectively as possible. The transition to e-books will benefit citizens and businesses as well as creditors and the Land Surveying Authority as a recording authority. The use of electronic pledges will, inter alia, facilitate the transfer and management of collateral and reduce the cost of collateral management. The risks associated with the disappearance and damage of paper pawnbooks will also be eliminated. Given that only electronic deposit books will be available in the future, the Committee on Legal Affairs stresses the importance of information security and reliability in the system. The Committee considers it important that property owners can use their assets as collateral, even if necessary quickly and regardless of the handling times, after a transitional period ending at the end of 2019. Overall, this change is very significant and flexible and important. That is why it was very easy for the committee to find a unanimous view on this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u85	Mr President! It is great that we are gradually changing the old laws to reflect the present, and in this particular case, we are using the electric arc to provide only electronic pawnbooks for new mortgages after June 2017. This is a good thing. As the committee also pointed out, the promotion of electronic pledges is in line with the government's objectives of digitisation and, in due course, the future benefits will be evident when the risks of disappearance and damage are also eliminated. I also welcome the fact that the committee drew attention to transitional issues and to the reliability of document management. This law could have been passed well years ago, but unfortunately Finland has no longer been a pioneer in digitalisation. Hopefully it will be fixed — better late than it was then. The government is on the right track.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u86	Madam President! Like the representative here Mäkelä said before, I also think it is now time to move on to these electronic pawnbooks. Since 1 November 2013, it has been an alternative procedure with a written pledge book, and now within ten years it would be a luxury and a wish that 80% of these pledges would be electronic. However, I note those bank-owned bonds and I hope, in relation to them, that the banks will also bear these costs when they are now converted into electronics and will not be passed on to the customers. This was at least our will in that committee reading. Information security, of course, debate and reliability are key to these issues, but I am confident that we have these systems that are inexhaustible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u87	Madam President! This is a government proposal that can be warmly supported and, as Mr Laukkanen said earlier, the committee is taking this forward unanimously, and that is extremely important. This is precisely the type of digitalisation in which, although these steps could have been taken much earlier, it is good that even at this stage. These speeches have highlighted these transitional costs and then security issues, which must of course be taken very good care of when we are moving towards an electronic system. I would say to Mr Ojala-Niemelä that even in those banks, the handling of those papers will certainly have its own costs. At times, as an auditor in a small bank, I have checked and thought about the fact that this system should be made easier and more flexible in some way. That I believe that this will certainly be cost savings for the banks, which would make it quite absurd that these costs should then be passed on to the customers. All in all, this whole system would be better off. Above all, it is precisely then that those hostage books could not be lost and would then be in one system and also in the customer's use as quickly as possible at that stage, if necessary. It is a very good thing that we are moving forward on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u88	Madam President! I am also very much in favour of this government proposal, which really takes this pawnbook system to the present day. However, this is a clear step forward on the path chosen by the government to promote digitalisation by all means available. However, there is a fact in this area that is worth Parliament's attention when making all the decisions, namely that we do not yet have high-speed broadband networks in place throughout the country. In other words, as digitalisation progresses, Parliament must ensure that high-speed broadband connections are genuinely built everywhere in this country. Sweden is much longer on this issue than we are. Estonia is going its own way, and we are already lagging behind Estonia in this area. Madam President, I would like the government and Parliament to take this issue very seriously. Once again, digitalization takes one step forward with this government proposal, so it is taken equally seriously that all the municipalities in Finland are building those backbone networks in order with the resources of society and with the support of society. Otherwise, this digitalisation will lead to increasing inequality in the country and people will suffer from it. This is certainly not the purpose of digitalisation; instead, we need to put the systems in order and then we can benefit from it for the long future. This is the best investment for the future when we put these broadband in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u89	Madam President! Just as mentioned above, this is very important that the whole country is fully and equally digital. Quite a lot of these pawnbooks are still held there at home in a pie box and even under the mattress. There is a lot of such an ageing population for which it is the only safe place for them. If they do not even have these digital services available, then this transformation will become very difficult for them. The second point — the committee did not want to record it but discussed it — was this information: after three years, these pledges will expire and will no longer be available, and it will be a surprise to many when you go to the bank with those pledges that they are no longer in force, which means that this information will have to be handled well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u90	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 3/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u91	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to introduce a law on the separate procedural provisions for certain categories of products, such as electrical equipment and electrical equipment, equipment intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres, scales, measuring instruments, explosives for civil use, lifts, safety components for lifts, pyrotechnic articles, simple pressure vessels and pressure equipment, the approval and designation of an assessment body as a notified body and their notification to the European Commission and other Member States. Similar procedural rules have so far been laid down in sectoral legislation for each product group. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy supports the adoption of a legislative proposal with some technical amendments. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes that work has been carried out on the cross-border modernisation of the standards of administrative sectors, in which the need for product regulation reform has been fully assessed. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy welcomes the fact that regulation in this way has become subject to a comprehensive assessment. The committee also agrees with the assessment made in the expert consultation that the proposed system of horizontal and sectoral regulation clarifies and harmonises this standard. Furthermore, the proposal has no significant impact on the actual functioning of the evaluation bodies. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy states in its opinion that the new product directives will start to apply on 20 April this year. From the same date, the existing powers of notified bodies to establish registers will be removed. If the legislative proposal under discussion is not put into effect before that date, on 20 April 2016, a situation shall arise in which the powers of notified bodies shall cease. This creates a continuity with the activities of these institutions, but at the same time the committee points out that the products currently authorised on the market may, as a general rule, retain their status during the period of validity of their approval decisions, despite the amendment of the directives. However, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy notes that the exception is the introduction of new lifts and certain measuring equipment. For these product groups, each new device to be placed on the market shall be considered as a new product subject to type-approval, even in the case of a product or model already on the market. Continuity due to the legislative delay for these product groups may result in a break in implementation of a maximum of a few weeks. This draft law, in line with the Government's proposal, has referred to provisions which are still being prepared. The parliamentary procedure of the draft law on notified bodies cannot be completed in its current form until all the provisions which are the subject of the references are dealt with by Parliament. As a result, the entry into force of the law on notified bodies and the ministerial notification to the Nando register maintained by the European Commission would be linked to the timetable for parliamentary scrutiny of the entire legislative package. That is why the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has decided to propose amending certain legislative references to the draft law in such a way as to enable the legislative proposal to be completed and thus the law to enter into force, irrespective of other parliamentary procedures relating to the implementation of the product directive. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposes a draft law on Article 1 To be amended to delete from the text of the Act references to the Lift Safety Act, the Act on the Conformity of Equipment and Protection Systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres and the Act on the Conformity of Explosives. A reference to the existing Act on the Safety of the Treatment of Dangerous Chemicals and Explosives (hereinafter the Chemical Safety Act). The Economic Committee notes that the provisions of the proposed law on notified bodies become applicable as a special law instead of the provisions of the Act on Pressure Equipment and the Act on Electrical Safety and Chemical Safety to the applications of conformity assessment bodies for which decisions are taken after the entry into force of the Act. Thus, the non-refusal of the overlapping provisions of the Pressure Equipment Act, the Electrical Safety Act and the Chemical Safety Act will not become a problem in this context. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also proposes that the proposed Article 2 It is proposed that the reference to the law on market surveillance for certain products, which is still in preparation, be deleted. Finally, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy proposes that Article 5 of the proposed regulation be read as follows: It is proposed to amend the Directive to delete references to the Lift Safety Act, the Act on the Conformity of Equipment and Protection Systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres and the Act on the Conformity of Explosives. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously proposes that Parliament approve the amended Government proposal, the Government proposal 21.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u92	Mr President! As the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Turunen said, the Committee on Economic Affairs was completely unanimous and genuinely concerned about what this derogation from the main rule — in the sense that the introduction of new lifts and these measuring instruments would be cut off for about two weeks — could mean in practice. In this respect, therefore, it is a big issue in itself, because it affects not only the lives of ordinary people, but also the business and business activities that are at stake here. In this respect, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously stated, and the SDP, too, warmly supports the fact that this issue is being put right.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u93	Madam President! It was great to see how the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy exercised its legislative power and discretion in this House and understood that, if these technical barriers and this dismantling of the legal links are not made, this could actually lead to financial losses for both consumers and, above all, for these companies seeking approval for these new equipment. And, of course, it is important that these new devices are just the right ones to be approved. In that sense, I should like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee as a whole, my colleagues there, for the fact that it was precisely in this way that we now wanted to break this link between these laws so that we could move this forward quickly. And we must hope that the whole Parliament will now understand how to vote in favour of this. There is certainly no such government-opposition arrangement here, but we are all in this same boat now and we want to speed this up. It was wonderful that, in this particular situation, the committee was now carrying out this own legislative work in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u94	Mr President! To put it this way in the vernacular, we came to such a situation that we could not have introduced lifts if we had waited for the full handling of this more legal package. And for this reason, that this kind of commissioning break would not arise or be created as little as possible, was removed from this law now all these references to these other laws, and they will then be returned after this entire legislative package has been processed. In any case, this seems to be a break in the take-up of about a couple of weeks, but I do not think it is very relevant to the citizens, because these lifts can also be checked during this two-week period. And after the break ends, that can be registered back here in the Nando registry for these review companies, these checks have already been made, i.e. it is then this kind of quick action. But in practice it can mean, for example, that, in the construction of a new apartment building, the lift cannot be put into service after completion until this registration is completed. But, indeed, this break is at most for a few weeks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u95	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. In this context, it is also possible to discuss the matter of the agenda 7.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u96	Madam President! Thank you for the fact that these two points can indeed be dealt with in this context, because it is the same thing, and in the light of the fact that it is only for legal reasons that we have to make a change to two articles, this is the most lax way of doing so. After all, the Vehicle Tax Act, which was amended in 2015, determines the amount of CO2 emissions and the weight of the vehicle. Vehicles using natural gas and domestic transport biogas as propulsion are taxed in exactly the same way as if they used 100% fossil natural gas. However, very many who drive a gas car use domestic transport biogas almost exclusively as propulsion. And after studying this share of natural gas and transport biogas in the propulsion of gas cars, they have been about 50 and 50 per cent in 2014. Indeed, there are many reasons why we should definitely favour transport biogas as a driving force. First of all, it is environmentally friendly: in environmental terms, it competes with carbon dioxide emissions throughout the whole life cycle, even with electric cars charged with wind power. And if we look at it further, biogas produced in certain ways is even a much more climate-friendly propulsion. VTT has studied this issue and according to its study, "investment in domestic drop-in fuels and biogas production on the basis of economic impacts would be the most cost-effective way for the economy as a whole to reduce transport emissions". This biogas is produced by many farms, but there are now certain obstacles on the other side, which is why it cannot be used so well and why investment is not receiving the same subsidies as, for example, for other agricultural buildings, and in that sense I have also tabled measures which will then apply precisely to this biogas coming from agriculture and its use. But back to this issue of vehicle tax law: this biogas production combines energy production, environmentally friendly waste management and nutrient recycling. This is certainly the circular economy at its best, and it is domestic, improving security of supply and trade balance and bringing employment to rural areas. Even here, when we were in Question Time, the plight of agriculture was raised, and it seems that any small thing — even if it comes from the energy side — that could help the agricultural situation would certainly be more than welcome. There is great potential for increasing the production of biogas. Gasum has estimated the potential to be 15 terawatt hours, which is about one third of Finland's natural gas use. The availability of mass-produced gas cars has improved very significantly. In Finland, however, the number of gas cars has remained low. We have about 2,000 cars when Sweden already has about 50,000 gas trucks. Part of this is that the production and refuelling of transport biogas has not yet been sufficiently comprehensive in Finland, and the increase in the production of transport biogas in Finland, together with other factors, is slowing down precisely that, in the case of CO2 emissions, the low life-cycle emissions of biogas are not taken into account in the vehicle tax, unlike in the case of electric cars. Both of these legislative initiatives are aimed at amending this vehicle tax law in this particular respect, and that is to say, when electric cars account for one of the smallest tax shares in the tax table, transport biogas accounts for about 50% of the driving force of gas cars in Finland, and in order to make progress on this issue, the environmental friendliness of biogas could be better taken into account in relation to electricity, and it should also be taken into account in this car tax law, so that in the tax table the taxes on gas cars increase from the lowest applicable tax rate, only 50% of the increase in non-diesel vehicles. When explained in this way, this sounds a little complicated, but the formula involved in the bill is easier to understand. But in any event, with just such a small change in the tax table, we could give just the right inspiration to increase the share of biogas as a transport fuel, and so we could really be doing environmentally friendly things, we could be in the countryside and also supporting employment there, and I hope that this bill will be taken into account. I understand that, due to the lack of time, I myself could not go here and collect a hundred names or anything like that, but I hope that, when the vehicle tax law is likely to come back again in this parliamentary term, it would be possible to consider this type of proposal. And I hope that the initiative will also be taken into account in a proper way. In committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u97	Madam President! Finland wants to be a pioneer in the bioeconomy and a leading country in the fight against climate change. However, for some reason, this does not appear in our tax solutions, but we maintain a very high rate of taxation for these energy-efficient cars and do not follow the development that is currently taking place elsewhere in Europe. Today's commercial paper reports: Two European countries are going to ban the sale of new petrol and diesel vehicles altogether. Norway and the Netherlands are seriously moving towards a completely clean transport over the next couple of decades. In both countries, plans for a total ban on the sale of new traditional diesel and petrol cars are progressing. This is the future, and I therefore warmly support the fact that these two legislative proposals will receive their dues when they are discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u98	Madam President! The initiative of the Christian Democrats is a good and worthy initiative. In fact, we in Finland drive the oldest cars in Europe on almost the worst roads in Europe. That is why it is important to take decisive measures to reform the car fleet as well. This type of bill, which would encourage renewable fuels, would also renew our fleet of cars. In fact, in recent years the average age of Finnish cars has still only become obsolete. For us, the average age of cars is over 11 years. During this period, I would like Minister Berner for Transport to take one more active approach to the whole of car tax reform and fuel tax reform, so that we can promote the use of biofuels and also re-establish our fleet. We should have a so-called zero vision in Finland that no one would have to die in traffic in the future. That is why, with some amazement, I myself have followed the positions of the Social Democrats in particular with regard to the reduction of the car tax and criticism of it. However, they are not present in this Chamber at the moment when it says that, for example, the stability system reduces the number of victims of derailment by as much as 50%. Then we currently have pedestrian airbags in just a few thousand cars. Although this early year, with the tax reduction, our sales have increased and in February, almost 21 per cent more new passenger cars registered than in the previous year, despite the fact that this year's forecast, 110,000 new passenger cars in the register, is still not renewed in our fleet. The goal should be about 150,000 new cars a year to get the car fleet back on track. It's not from anyone that the car fleet is regenerating. In fact, those older cars will also become safer, and thus everyone will benefit from this. In that sense, I strongly support this initiative by Mr Essayah and the Christian Democrats that we are also moving forward with the reform from the fuel side.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u99	Madam President! I am also very much in favour of this initiative by the Christian Democrats to correct the vehicle tax and now, in particular, in relation to these gas cars. At the same time, I would like to see all the other alternative fuel possibilities from hydrogen cars to electric cars being put through during the consultation, that these issues should be openly discussed and then brought to the fore, so that this much talked about renewal of the fleet of cars can take place. The bill has well highlighted the problems, one of which is the lack of refuelling points. In my home town, Kouvola, we have the opportunity to refuel, and I know that we can do it here in Helsinki. Gas cars, at least in our region, are very easy to deal with, but at around national level this is still a problem, and I hope that is what Gasum and the companies in the industry are investing in. In this respect, Mr Laukkanen took an interesting view from other countries that this total ban on the sale of petrol and diesel vehicles over a few decades is the future. That's probably true. However, as a motorist and a museum car enthusiast, I hope that petrol cars will also be sold in the future in such a historical sense, but of course from an environmental point of view these renewable fuels will be supported, and that is why this bill is very much to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u100	Madam President! This Norwegian model is very interesting because they are approaching this very long-term. Their model is that they will have a national transport programme on the basis of which this change will take place. The core and objective of the whole programme is quite ambitious. It's zero-emission traffic. You can call this a vision by now. The timetable is 2018–2029, which means that very long tendons are spoken of. I would like us, in terms of transport policy — just as Mr Heinonen has pointed out here — to have a long-term approach, to see what results can be achieved when the objective is set, even if it is over many years of government. And again: they really have one step towards achieving this goal: they are raising taxes on cars. It's interesting.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u101	Madam President! It is true that the gas station network must be as comprehensive as possible, but in some way it seems that we in Finland are in this mess. We have a lot of barns with which to make this type of position and, in fact, to bring vitality to the countryside. But now that you have been watching for years about allowing horse manure to be burned for energy use, that too is so difficult in this country. In almost all other EU countries it returns, and I understand that even now officials in Finland are starting to admit that horse manure here too could come back when the official only made a decision to do so. I am now encouraging Mr Tiilika to make decisive progress on this issue. The gas station network, as has been mentioned in this debate, is essential for us to have new cars, new fuels, and then the way in which we view the ownership and purchase of the car. Therefore, the abolition of the car tax would be very justified and there is a model in which this same tax revenue will actually be achieved. This is the representative. Mr Laukkanen pointed out that there would be no emissions from cars at all, but certainly no one is going to promise that, in that case and in that case, no taxes would be collected from transport at all. I'm afraid one way or another they'll be picked up. Then, in my opinion, a model, for example, in the direction of giving up the vehicle tax, that is to say the tax on the purchase of a new car, and slightly increasing the basic element of the vehicle tax, would enable us to cover that loss. In fact, this model would also be stable from the point of view of income, i.e. it would not depend on the car trade and encourage the purchase of new cars, those using biogas, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u102	Madam President! Mr Heinonen made a good point about why there are not more of these refuelling points in rural areas. I have already pointed out in my own presentation that the reason is that these investments, the construction of biogas plants, have not been supported in situations such as those where the aim is precisely to sell that biogas outside and not just to use it on its own farm. It seems rather unusual if we compare it with the fact that we receive support for other investments in agriculture and do not assume that all the milk, cereals and meat produced there will be used there on the same farm, but, of course, they are intended for sale. If you think about this kind of situation, for goodness' sake, biogas is generated over its own need, then why not sell it as a transport biogas or, for example, for example, for residential properties in a nearby area or for similar purposes could be heated? This is one of the peculiarities of these investment aid provisions. Another point raised by Mr Heinonen is this requirement for hygiene, that is to say, for biogas too, it has been made almost impossible to re-use this digestion that occurs in that process. At present, in rural areas, it is being driven to sewage treatment plants, even if the hygienic requirement of a small amount is being rationalised, it would be possible to restore it to the nutrient cycle again. It is thought that at the same time foreign fertilizers will be purchased when we have those nutrients in the digestion if it can only be treated in that way and the hygienic requirement can be properly applied. There are such things, one might say, that are very common-minded and, in this case, quite literally common-minded things that could be promoted and thus improved in terms of farm profitability and, above all, in terms of the livelihoods that are practised in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u103	Mr President! I would also like to express my support for this bill by Mrs Essayah and others, which highlights a number of important points of view and, in particular, from an encouraging point of view by means of taxation — not as we often do in Finland, that we have a legal restriction, but that we really have such an encouraging point of view here. This would now support the production and use of renewable domestic energy in the context of the implementation of this bill in accordance with the Government Programme. At the same time, it would be possible to renew the Finnish fleet of cars. Its age is indeed very high in European terms, as Mr Heinonen has just said. From an environmental point of view, there is also a very favourable bill and, if implemented, it would bring the number of gas cars much closer to the level of our neighbouring country, Sweden, for example. I therefore see this incentive as a much better option than the direct ban on petrol vehicles, which is being considered in a few countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-31-ps-30.u104	Madam President! I have asked to speak again because that is where Mr Savio so well raised the word 'inciting'. In other words, the Christian Democrats have been starting to believe that, in our own alternative opposition policy, we are precisely trying to bring them encouraging alternatives to the government. Here we had a debate during Question Time on whether we could perhaps move forward with this model of basic security that encourages us. Now we have such incentive tax solutions on this table, and next week we will be presenting an encouraging model of student support. Indeed, we heard from Minister Tiilikainen when he said that we are now finally implementing, in line with the Swedish model, the fact that procurement will require compliance with Finnish animal welfare legislation when public procurement is made. This is something I myself put forward last summer when I signed up for the news from Sweden and asked why this issue could not be taken forward in Finland as well. At the time, I left a question for the Minister. In that sense you can really say that KD has now given here very like encouraging incentives in the direction of the board, and very much we will be happy to see if they start moving forward and are being carried out, and it is hoped that in this case too these amendments to the Auto Tax Act would be of the kind that they would then actually be taking forward. In this way we could really help the records of the Government Programme that are aimed specifically at improving energy self-sufficiency in Finland and having a more environmentally friendly policy.
