ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u2	First question, Mr Eloranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u3	Mr President! Hardworking families with children are the backbone of Finnish society. Parents work and build this society, pay taxes, care for the running of everyday life, curly pants, and ear infections. An important prerequisite for the smooth running of everyday life is functional, decent and affordable early childhood education. These Finnish everyday heroes in families are very tight. We'll have to take care of the mortgages and rents. We'll have to get summer clothes and bicycles. The government has proposed massive increases in day care fees. The average two-child family of a nurse and construction worker is about to increase the fees by nearly EUR 1,400 a year. That's almost 1400 euros. It's a lot of money for a lot of families. Just two weeks ago, the government suggested that it was going to cancel these giant increases. Now, however, this has not happened. Minister Grahn-Laasonen, can you tell us what happened here?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u4	Mr President! The questioner made very good comments on Finnish early childhood education, which is of very high quality and offered by professionals. Finland has such a great strength as part of our welfare society that we have built a system of education, which leaves early childhood education and offers opportunities for children from all backgrounds to train and acquire the skills that will then, in the case of early childhood education, help later in learning and life. So early childhood education is an important part of our education system. With regard to these issues of early childhood education, the proposal has been tabled by the Committee on Education, Parliament and the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media in the autumn, that is to say after the parliamentary break. In the meantime, the government will have a discussion about what will be done about this presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u6	Mr President! Minister Grahn-Laasonen, EUR 1,400 a year is a lot of money for many families. It's the price of a summer vacation for a family with children. And there is another aspect to this: the government has promised that in all decisions work will always be given priority and that decisions will always be taken that encourage you to go to work instead of being at home, and that is a good line. However, the government’s massive increase in day care fees means that a low-paid mother, such as a seller or a nearby nurse, may face a situation where work is no longer worth accepting when, after paying the day care fees, the family gets less hands on it than if they stayed home with the children. A situation may arise where a housewife or father cannot afford to go to work. Mr Grahn-Laasonen, you said that you were still assessing these increases. You have had one year to assess the impact of your proposal for a daily care fee increase. Last week, you gave me the impression that the show was canceled. Can you tell me if you now have any new information that led you to decide not to withdraw this motion from this Parliament for a giant increase?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u7	Mr President! Early childhood education is free of charge today and in the future for the most low-income families, and it is precisely the aim of ensuring equal opportunities and the possibility of early childhood education for children from all backgrounds and also for their families that the child can participate in early childhood education. The importance of early childhood education as part of our education system cannot be emphasised enough, it is absolutely essential, and that is why at the moment we are focusing very strongly on strengthening the pedagogy of early childhood education by various means. First development grants in history, among other things The National Board of Education was recently applied for, and so at the moment, among other things, we are strongly and permanently increasing the number of university-educated kindergarten teachers. And, as I have already said in this reply, this matter of payment is going to take place in the autumn, and the government will assess it from very many points of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u8	Mr President! These increases in the fees for day care have been part of the government’s policy of making several cuts to early childhood education. Group sizes have been raised and the right to full-time early childhood education has been restricted. This is the wrong direction, because early childhood education plays a major role in enabling families to reconcile their daily living and work pressures and to ensure that children receive good, high-quality early childhood education. On behalf of early childhood education professionals, I hope that the government will now consider how to raise the value of early childhood education in general. It is an important part of our society and the rights of children. Mr President! Two weeks ago, Minister Stubb promised that the government would also re-evaluate this payment increase, so that these severe increases in payments could be so harmful that the overall savings would not be realised because of the weakening of the position of women in working life and because it could guide women home. Moreover, many municipalities do not want these to be carried out, i.e. it would discriminate against children. I would now like to ask the future Minister for Finance, Minister Orpo: do you agree with Mr Stubb and have the chairmen of the political parties discussed that this unreasonable proposal could be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u9	Mr President! In actual fact, I am still here in the role of Minister for the Interior, but briefly I can say that today, among the government parties, we made an assessment that this was not yet progressing, which gives us the opportunity to go through this matter again before the proceedings go on. We'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u10	Madam President! The 22% increase in the daily care fees for ordinary families with low and middle incomes is indeed far too high, and this would make the lives of families more difficult. The effects of such a large increase on the incentive to work and take up work are also very significant and quite the opposite of what the government said in its proposal. Prime Minister Sipilä has also said earlier that all necessary surgical decisions have already been taken. Families with children have in many ways been vaccinated in the past. Would it not be time to say that the original government proposal was poorly prepared? I would like to ask: can the government say before the summer break that the increase in daily care fees will be abolished altogether?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u11	Mr President! I would like to make an observation about the fact that there are, of course, many positive aspects to it, including the fact that it reduces payments to the lowest-income families, and also, in particular, that it makes it easier for single-parent families. It also contains elements that, for low incomes, increase the incentives for receiving work. In other words, this is a very diverse whole, which should be carefully weighed, and I am therefore pleased that it is still possible to look at it. A good speech was made here about the means to strengthen the appreciation of early childhood education in our society. I think that is precisely what I listed here: the strengthening of pedagogy, namely that early childhood education is seen as part of the education system and, indeed, as a very effective part of early childhood education, as well as the fact that we will have more trained staff in the future, i.e. we will increase the number of university-educated kindergarten teachers. Staff working in kindergarten are also currently involved in the development work we do on the qualitative side, as well as in the Finnish National Board of Education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u12	Madam President! Here, a few days ago, last week, families were given the hope that there would be no increase in early childhood education fees. Now, I have to say, I'm sure this has been a great disappointment to a lot of people. We were able to say, in committee hearings, that the poverty of families with children has turned to growth again. 40% of families currently suffer from income problems. 20% of middle-income families suffer from income problems. All of this, these income problems, has a major impact on the overall development of the child, which is why it would be very important for the government to understand that it would support the livelihood of families. However, if the government now plans to carry out these increases in day care and target them on middle - income families with children, what will the government do? Mr Orpo, I would like to ask you a question: You said, as a line of action, that without the middle class there is no welfare, because there are no contributors. Do you mean that you will vaccinate and shift costs?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u13	Mr President! The fees for early childhood education will not rise at least in August. Is this not now good news from the government for the families? The matter is still being discussed in the government and we will see what the fate of this proposal is and I think it is a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u14	Mr President! With this government proposal, there are also families in which the mother works in the low-wage sector, but the wage level of the father raises the family’s cumulative earnings to the level that children’s day care fees are determined by the highest pay grade. Unfortunately, the man's euro is still larger in Finland than the woman's euro. This will certainly cause situations when families wonder whether it is worthwhile for a mother to work or to stay home to care for the children. Even though it might seem attractive and a good alternative to that life and economic situation, the choice is also a choice for the future: it affects the mother’s career development, the mother’s salary level, and eventually the mother’s pension. Minister, do you see the problem of equality here?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u15	Mr President! As has been said, this proposal is still being weighed against a large number of cases before the final decisions are taken. On that point, I would like to draw attention to the fact that I think it is very important that we use various means to encourage families to involve their children in early childhood education, because, according to the studies, it has positive effects on the type of learning capacity they will have at a later stage and on the way they will be able to manage and succeed in the future and on the way to school.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u16	Mr President! The government did a very important job in taking a time-out in connection with the increases in early childhood education fees. In that respect, I think the government deserves to be commended. In fact, early childhood education fees have many meanings, as has been raised here by the opposition. Early childhood education fees can be seen in a way as a tax increase directed only at families with children, and then the question arises as to whether we really want to allocate an increase in taxes in the form of contributions to families with children. The second question is that, at the same time, when we want to stimulate our public finances in a way that involves private demand, all the money that is taken from families with children is also out of consumption.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u17	Mr President! That was a very good question, and that is precisely what we should be thinking about together, what the different means are, how we will increase the participation rate in early childhood education. It is the lowest in Finland in the Nordic countries, and we should certainly encourage families to participate in early childhood education and also strengthen the confidence of parents and families that early childhood education is also important for the child's future learning. Of course, as parents, we all have a big role to play in making those choices in our everyday lives, whether the child participates in early childhood education or not. And we can contribute, among other things, in this Question Time by saying that I wish as many children as possible would participate in early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u18	Mr President! Over the past year, we have very often discussed early childhood education and the limitation of subjective day care rights, and now we do not yet know what this will be. I hope, of course, that the government will make good decisions. We have also discussed human resources. All of these are difficult conversations. What if we were to think quite differently and really try to encourage families to participate in early childhood education by completely changing the system? In Sweden, for example, there is a model where early childhood education is free four hours a day for people over three years of age. If we were to switch to this big change in home care support and perhaps to family, parental leave, then we would have such an overall reform of family policy. Could the government do this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u19	Mr President! As far as early childhood education is concerned, we have had quite a big change in thinking. Today we are no longer talking about kindergartens and kindergartens or about having to get children somewhere for a day while the parents are at work, but today early childhood education is an early childhood education, which means that there is already the ability that will then help in learning and living. Early childhood education can, among other things, prevent exclusion and tackle many problems at an early stage, such as learning difficulties. Here are some good proposals that I think we should all consider and look at innovatively, also international comparisons, and I am well aware of this example in Sweden. Of course, we do not have any decisions on any of these types of entities in the government. The Finnish National Board of Education is currently making the first arguments in the history of early childhood education, which is, as it were, a curriculum-like document defining the different objectives and contents of early childhood education. I have to say that having followed that professional work is very inspiring.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u20	Mr President! In the context of this debate on early childhood education, it has also been noted with credit that the government's proposal, which is now in the debate, also contained a significant hand-out for the most low-income families, such as one-parent families, which is, of course, a great advantage of that proposal. Another important debate took place on the practical increase in the hourly day care fee, which would also be a good presentation for the economy and everyday management of families with children, and which is already being tested in many municipalities. But the services of families with children are more than day care or early childhood education in its broad sense. The Government's leading project to improve the services of children and families includes, among other things, a proposal to improve the municipal home assistance of families with children and the overall change in the services of families with children. This has been discussed much less, and I would like to ask the minister responsible: how is this key project?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u21	Madam President! First of all, the Parliament and the government of the country increased money for municipal home services for families with children. Additional appropriations have been allocated to this year. Secondly, the implementation phase of the key project: It is essential that existing good practices, such as home service, can be replicated in different municipalities across the country. It is now in the process of implementation in such a way that regional tours are taking place and, among other things, regional tours are gathering the experiences and the good practices that have been talked about. Then the next step is to be able to replicate them. But here we are in the field.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u22	Mr President! This government has repeatedly had to withdraw its decisions and it has appeared that the calculations underlying them have not been correct. It is also clear in this proposal that this will reduce the employment rate and reduce equality, the position of women in working life, and other cuts have been made, such as the reduction in the housing allowance for pensioners, which has been cancelled by the government. I would now like to point out that, in this context, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, when you say quite well about the importance of early childhood education, all government measures go in the opposite direction and limit people's chances of having children in early childhood education, access to employment itself. And this is the contradiction that you must now respond to. If you say — as several government ministers say — that it feels bad and unpleasant to take these decisions, then I have a good way of doing it: do not take these decisions. It doesn't make me feel bad. It makes me feel better when you really improve the position of early childhood education. And I would also like to ask the Prime Minister: how do you see this? Can these cuts be reversed because they do not make sense financially?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u23	Mr President! Let us say once again that the government is indeed reconsidering this proposal and in August these increases in payments will not come into force, as has already been said here. Right in your direction, isn't that the good news of the day? And as far as this development of early childhood education is concerned, I have listed a number of ways in which, in a positive spirit, we can take forward the quality of early childhood education. We all know that at the moment there are particularly challenging economic times in Finland from the point of view of economic resources. It's neither news nor a surprise to anyone. But then it is particularly important that we be able to invest in the quality, the strengthening of pedagogy, the knowledge and the service that these families of children receive.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u24	Madam President! It has now become clear that this government-driven proposal on these massive increases in day care fees puts the hardworking, working, middle-class families of children in the most difficult situation. Then it has also become apparent that there may be quite unreasonable situations here, that a family member or mother cannot afford to go to work. It was lighted two weeks ago when the government announced that it would withdraw this decision. Prime Minister, in the spirit of the arrival of the Midsummer, when families with children are preparing for holidays too, I ask: is this now the vatulage, or is this already the hallmark of the yapping?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u25	Madam President! First of all, that list failed to mention that this proposal, which is, will help everyone with low incomes. That's what you always want to forget. Secondly, this government has started to draw up an economic plan on the basis that we do not pass the problems on to the municipalities. We are not raising the fees for day care, but we are giving way to the decision of the municipality to make decisions in the region at its discretion. Transferring the ball, continuing the blanket, we do not want to make it possible for us to cut the municipalities but we do not give them the tools to make decisions that are in line with it, either to increase charges or then to loosen standards in such a way that they can then improve their efficiency. This is now new in government policy in relation to previous practices. This additional period will now allow us to reconsider the matter. Is this not a good policy? We have a timetable which allows us to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u26	Next question, Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u27	Mr President! The competitiveness pact advocated by the government was sealed once and for all last weekend. This agreement will hit exceptionally hard on those working in the public sector who, in addition to the extension of working time and the increase in insurance premiums, will be cut by 30%. For example, the income level of local carers is falling According to Statistics Finland's data, EUR 134 per month. One week ago, SuPer published a report that more than 90 per cent of Finnish primary and local nurses are concerned about the quality of care, 70 per cent have considered changing the sector and more than half are not sure whether they will be able to work for their health in two years' time in their current profession. Prime Minister, I find this result truly shocking. I would now like to ask Minister Mäntylä and Mr Ruhula: what are you going to do about improving the working lives of staff in the elderly, health and social services and thus also Finnish care?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u28	Madam President! Why are we changing the foundations of social welfare and health care? Because there is uncertainty as to the way in which our money will be sufficient for the next decade in terms of service needs and how the professionals — these percentages of whom you here, Mr Andersson, told us — will be able to do the work for which they are trained and how they will be able to work so that they can cope. We need this big change in order to reduce uncertainty. Secondly, we need operating models and procedures that are fortunately being prepared in the midst of all this social unrest. Preparation of policy development, preparation of division of labour, preparation of smoother functioning of care chains, etc. What are we going to do? A lot, as long as everyone is on the way to make this change and not to make four- limb brakes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u29	Madam President! This question is very important: how do we support people's working lives and well-being at work? Special attention has also been paid to this in the STM. Working and well-being at work are the sum of many factors and many things. One important factor is that a person himself feels that he can influence his own work, that is, the motivation to go to work and the good feeling of going to the workplace also arises from the fact that he himself is able to control his own work and feels that his work is significant and that he genuinely gives something good with it. Especially in the care sector, in which I myself have worked, work is done on calling, but it is also a matter of management and that people can genuinely influence their own work and are genuinely heard there within their own working community.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u30	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up. Congressman Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u31	Mr President! It is wonderful that the government has been aware of the scale of this problem. Occupational sickness is a very significant problem in Finnish working life at the moment, and it also creates significant costs for the public sector as well as employers. However, I did not see any concrete solutions in the answers of the ministers; on the contrary, both the reform of social services and the ongoing competitions also create that uncertainty and stress, especially on the public side of Finland at the moment. During the whole of this year, Finland has been talking mainly about what Finnish workers are paying, and not about how they are doing and how they can do it at their own workplace. At the same time, this government has taken a number of decisions which weaken the existing division of labour: among other things, the conditions for job alternation leave have been tightened and, with the competitiveness agreement, working time has increased. I would also like to ask Minister Lindström — when he is not there, then we will continue with the same ministers: what is the government going to do in concrete terms to improve the well-being of Finns at work and also to improve health and safety at work, to reduce absenteeism?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u32	Mr President! As I have already said in my previous reply, this issue has been addressed by the STM and is being actively processed and discussed with the various parties with the best expertise from the field in what we could do better. We all know that bullying at work, for example, is a very big problem and it happens a lot within the working communities, and this is one of those issues on which we should dare to speak much more courageously, that the working community itself is dynamically such that it is certainly good for everyone to be there and also dare to talk about them. Occupational health care plays a very important role in this as a whole in how they deal with these problems. We also know that mental health problems, for example, and through them, are a major challenge. These are all things on which, as I said, we are having a very active debate and we are making every effort to find the concrete grass-roots means by which we can take things forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u33	Mr President! People working in the care and care sector often face enormous pressures on a daily basis in order to do their work as well as possible. Especially when today there is a desire to invest more in home care than before, to reduce that institutional care, the problem that the government may not be aware of has not been mentioned and has not wanted to address on the home care side. To the Minister of Transport and Communications, I address my question: In fact, home care personnel often have to look for too much parking space to do their care and care work well. This is perceived to be very unfair, especially when people on low pay will then have to pay their own parking tickets for their own purses. This could easily be changed to the Road Traffic Act. Is the Minister aware of this problem, and are you going to address it quickly? This has no budgetary implications, but it would increase the well-being of these people who are doing important work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u34	Madam President! Indeed, the Road Transport Act is being reformed in the autumn and a wide range of related tasks are being identified. This part is, however, the responsibility of the municipalities and will then be largely taken care of there in the future. The zoning and regional plans will also comment on the construction rights of the regions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u35	Madam President! Indeed, this Super survey revealed not only the concern of home - care nurses for the elderly about their own survival, but also their concern about the safety of the elderly who are being cared for because of the rush to prevent proper care and care. The question of how we can ensure patient safety, customer safety in social services is also very central to this social security reform. Indeed, there is great concern when the government now seems to give priority to how to increase freedom of choice and competition, rather than how to ensure that differences in health and well-being are narrowed. Now, according to the latest information or rumor, the government is moving Valvira's supervisory function from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, i.e. this Ministry of Experts, away from the VM,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u36	Madam President! The multi-generational question ended with the way in which supervision will be carried out in the future. First of all, for all and not for every rumor and not even the third, it is worth believing in this situation again, where we are acutely. Secondly, it is essential that we continue to have substance legislation. We have an old-age service law that will define, for example, that service plans should be made for everyone: when a person who needs help, care and care needs to survive at home and when he needs a 24/7 place where he must be prepared for continuous care and care. As far as controls are concerned, at least I do not have the information that the legislation relating to controls is at least being relaxed. We are going to write in the Act on the organisation of social welfare and health care sections on how supervision is organised. And what role does the Substance Ministry play: regardless of what is the administrative home base, the legislation in force, the substance legislation will continue to exist with certainty.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u37	Madam President! Working is largely related to whether a person is in the right field and whether he or she is in the right position to receive further vocational training. Throughout this spring, young people have sought out a wide range of different forms of school, and I have noticed that the Minister of Education has stated that more and more young people should be able to study without entrance exams, without aptitude tests, mainly on the basis of diplomas. This gives rise to concern that, while, for example, in the care sector, this aptitude test is extremely important, many of these have been abandoned to an increasing extent, for example in the case of local and primary care providers. I would have asked the Minister for Education what line to take in this matter. Are we going to end up in the care sector today, people who are not necessarily suitable for that sector? Perhaps it is also partly due to the lack of endurance and possibly fatigue at work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u38	Mr President! I don't know, maybe two things went a little crazy here. What I have been talking about relates to the choice of students in higher education and how it could reduce the number of pre-fabricated entrance exams based on an external chapter. In fact, in the future the direction of higher education, universities, may be more appropriate in the selection criteria. This has been the case with the universities. The aim is to reduce the number of intermediate years and speed up transitions so that young people can study more quickly. That would be such a positive reform, too. As far as suitability for second stage is concerned, we are currently working on the reform of vocational education and training, and we are also going to look at the practices and legislation involved and see how we can take action in the future, particularly in the social and health field.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u39	Madam President! The concerns of the staff raised by SuPer must be taken seriously. We in the Parliament of the Coalition Party have read them, and I would like to say here that the reform of social welfare and health care is being carried out in order to ensure equal, high-quality services for Finns, but also to ensure that social welfare and health care are a good place to work. Well-being at work is also based on the fact that you can influence your own work, management is good, but it is also important that the staff are involved in the whole preparatory phase of this reform, that they can influence the reform, because they will eventually do the services. I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs and Health how it has been ensured that Finnish social welfare staff are strongly involved in the process of social welfare reform in order to improve well-being at work in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u40	And Minister Rehula.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u41	Madam President! Legislation will provide a framework for what is to be done in the various provinces. It is now absolutely essential and necessary, first of all, to mobilise regional change in areas where it has not yet taken place and, secondly, by the end of the summer at the latest, when it comes to September, on October, the regional change must have structures in which the staff are genuinely involved. We have evidence of how the last two decisions have progressed as a process in Central Ostrobothnia and North Karelia. Both have undergone change and its preparation from the bottom to the bottom, in the workplace, in various meetings, in various meetings, in particular by involving staff on a large scale. This is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u42	Next question, Congressman Henrikson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u43	Värderade fru talman! Finlands sysselsättningsgrad är betydligt lägre än de övriga nordiska lländernas, och en orsak till det är vårt familelidighetssystem. Bland aet så är det ett factum att unga kvinnor i Finland inte alls deltar i samma utsträckning på arbetsmarknaden som till exempel kvinnorna i Sverige och på Island.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u44	Madam President! The past is past and history is history, but we have moved towards Nordic equality in Finland. These present family leave schemes, which are currently in force, have the elements of the mother, there is the father — thanks to the previous government, for example. We have evidence that, with the decisions of the previous government, fathers have started to use parental leave more. It is not, at least for the time being, prepared or even discussed by the government that we are now taking the path of major global reform. Secondly, we have forms of early childhood education, one of which is home care support, and some of your question referred to it. This government will not prepare for changes in home care support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u45	Mr President! This is a very important question, and indeed Minister Ruhula has already largely responded to it. But I would also like to point out here as a whole that it is also a question of our social security system, to the greatest extent, when we talk about this subject. When we talk about family benefits in a way and talk about the status of women and also about raising pensions, I personally see that we must be able to look at these systems in a very comprehensive way and also at the family benefits systems: what can be done about them, so that they specifically support these different objectives but also leave it to families to make the choices that serve their families and their situation best. In other words, it is an economic policy issue, an employment policy issue, but also, to the greatest extent, a social policy issue which should be the subject of wider debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u46	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask further questions to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u47	Mr President! It is also a question of value selection. The choice here is whether to promote the Finnish labour market so that women and especially young women can participate more in it than they do today, or whether they do not want to. And as long as you don't want to do anything about home care support, nothing will happen about this. The RKP has suggested many times that we should have a system of 6+6+6, i.e. that the mother could stay at home for 6 months, father for 6 months, and then the parents could decide which one of them would use the last six months, but at the same time reform the home care support system and day care. The Government Programme states that Finland is an equal country, a point. That is not enough, and your equality programme states, among other things, that nothing is done about family leave, or in fact,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u48	Who's answering? Let's just have another one, that is, Minister Mäntylä, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u49	Apparently, equality came true. Mr President! The question of value choices: We are not changing home care support during this term of government; let this be made clear here. I must remember that there is also equality, that we have different choices in society, and the choice of home care support is also one kind of value choice. It is a family choice, and we must also leave it to families to choose the kind of option that suits them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u50	Mr President! We are now discussing a very important issue that has been linked to this Nordic welfare society: the fact that women and men also have access to the labour market and equal access to society. However, I would like to think about a time frame, both in terms of employment rates and otherwise, and the idea is this: could we not build such a more flexible model — whether the working term 'part-time home care allowance' is used — an hourly combination of hourly day care and part-time work, which would allow more flexible and faster access to the labour market? Research has shown that women with a lower level of education if they remain dependent on home care support for longer periods of time will have a real problem in the future. We need to find new, flexible models. I would hope that this kind of thing would not be viewed negatively in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u51	Madam President! Every good idea and idea is to be welcomed, and the fact that the previous representative here asked for the 6+6+6 model, the freedom to make family decisions is a good idea, but it costs EUR 500 million in size. We also need the development of working life from the point of view of families, of course. And that's the job we have to do. But let us not forget that when we talk from the point of view of families, we talk from the point of view of working life, also from the point of view of the child, that we have early childhood education for that purpose, we have a home care support system for that purpose, we have social security for families with children, child benefits for that purpose. This system is built from a child’s point of view. Let us not forget the child in a situation where there are several different levels of ambition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u52	Madam President! This debate goes back to equality in the right way. Mr Pekonen has already asked for an assessment of the impact of gender equality on day care. During the last period, just as Minister Rehula said, when I was Minister for Gender Equality, it was extended not only to Daddy's earmarked leave but also to make it more flexible, and it is great that, as Mr Rehula has already said, it has increased the participation of fathers in childcare. And now it is a question of the fact that none of us will think that the situation is now equal and good, but that further progress must be made, even small ones, as has been done in the last period. Now I am interested in what kind of ideas, Minister Rehula — when you saw how good the reform is, what was done in the last period — and what similar steps you have now planned that these family leave could continue to be divided more equally within families.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u53	Madam President! Firstly, from the point of view of equality, we have an equal pay programme which, together with the social partners, has agreed for this parliamentary term the paths of progress that would make the euro of a woman more like the euro of a man.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u54	And again, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u55	Madam President! I would also like to point out that, as part of this overall competitiveness solution, the government made a proposal to pay the mother's employer a lump sum of EUR 2500, and the government has not forgotten this whole, but is preparing it and will submit a proposal to Parliament in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u56	And Mr. Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u57	Mr President! There has been a good debate here today on the role of women in the labour market, and unfortunately the government is not really very much — there are small comforts — to allow measures to be taken to ensure that the euro of a woman is the same as the euro of a man. We've been waiting a long time. The Ombudsman for Gender Equality monitors non-discrimination in the labour market and, according to the CEDAW, the Anti-Discrimination Treaty, for 30 years, has specifically controlled non-discrimination in the labour market and the promotion of equality. Now the Ministry of Justice is preparing to terminate the office of the Ombudsman for Equality and to merge the office with the Office of the Ombudsman for Equality. 400,000 women from the Federation of Women's Organisations feel that this does not promote equality. How, Minister for Gender Equality, will this measure promote equality? I understand that you have not been involved in this preparation, but perhaps you will be able to evaluate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u58	Madam President! We are talking about legislation which is currently in the consultation process, and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health itself will make a statement from the point of view of equality. Personally, I am one of the people to whom it is important that things, in this case the promotion of equality, can move forward. The place in which the organisation is: this has happened during the last parliamentary term, since this is an administrative activity under the Ministry of Justice for the Ombudsman for Gender Equality. But my personal opinion on this point is that the role and status of the Ombudsman for Gender Equality should be maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u59	Next question, Congressman Kalmari.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u60	Madam President! I would like to ask Minister Toivaka about the trade agreement between Europe and the United States. In part, this investment protection and trade agreement will probably increase growth, but I have concerns about food safety in the future. The agricultural product market is often agreed at the end of the agreement, and this is not yet certain of the outcome. Food safety is regulated in a very different way in Europe and in the United States. For us, that chain is well-regulated from field to table and also control. In the United States it does not really matter how the products are produced, as long as the end product is more or less safe, and the Food Authority is strongly linked to the industry, the residue limits are very high. That is why I would ask you, Mr Toivakka: can you promise that we will not have products on the European market that have been produced, for example, with growth hormones or antibiotic growth promotions? Do you promise you won't use chlorine washing to kill microbes from food?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u61	Madam President! Thank you for this question, a very timely question. The EU-US FTA negotiations are at an important stage, and the so-called 'end-of-life' is ahead, and we hope that the negotiations will proceed. The most difficult issues still need to be negotiated during the autumn and, of course, progress has been made in many areas. One important issue is, of course, the kind of treatment that sensitive products will receive for agricultural products in general, but there is no concern in this regard, in terms of food safety, because products on the EU market will have to meet EU requirements in the future, and thus the level of food safety will not be reduced. There is also no negotiation on the issue of GM products. Similarly, when it comes to health, safety, consumer protection, environmental standards, the EU has set the bar at a very high level, i.e. that level will not be undermined. This is part of the EU's negotiating mandate and will be adhered to.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u62	Next question, Congressman Jani Mäkelä.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u63	Mr President! Finland, which will soon be 100 years old, owes its independence to veterans of our wars. Taking care of them until the end is our duty and our duty of honor. The government has already taken steps to improve their situation at the level of the Government Programme Record, where more funds are promised to veterans and war ombudsmen. However, there has now been public information that even more than a hundred veterans would have been deprived of the rehabilitation they sought last year. The reason is explained by the scarcity of appropriations in relation to the costs of rehabilitation. This matter should be rectified as soon as possible, whatever its cause. I would ask the government whether this problem has been recognised and what measures have been or will be taken to remedy it and with what timetable?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u64	Madam President! Thanks for the feedback today. These feedbacks come from different municipalities around Finland. Firstly, what has already been done is that the rehabilitation money for veterans, both for home services and for rehabilitation, is distributed four times a year. They are divided according to the number of veterans, and therefore each municipality receives the same amount in principle. If there are situations where they are not used — even those examples, municipalities, there are, for example, those who do home service, do institutional rehabilitation at a lower cost than others — then the money goes back to the state, there is a redistribution, and this year, for example, twice this year, these rehabilitation funds are being distributed. The third aspect is what needs to be done once again: one must remember to remind and send a shepherd message to the municipalities that every veteran, that is what the parliament has decided, must receive its rehabilitation. This has not been about money in recent years, but there have been some other problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u65	Next question, Mr. Virolainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u66	Madam President! Next Thursday, Finland will prepare for the Juhannus celebration, but in Britain the moods will be different, as there will be a referendum. Until now, estimates of the situation of the supporters and opponents of the EU divide have been relatively stable. But according to very recent opinion polls, those in favour of the EU divorce are winning. Several experts have assessed the impact of the possible difference on Britain, the European Union, the world economy and geopolitical stability. According to the most common estimates, the difference in Britain would have a negative impact not only on the British but also on Finland due to the weakening of the EU's weight and negative economic effects in the short, medium and long term. So I ask you, Prime Minister Sipilä: how is the Finnish Government prepared for a possible difference between the British and the EU?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u67	Let us take two answers to this: Prime Minister Sipilä and Minister Soini, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u68	Madam President! This is a very important and topical issue. Next Friday morning, we'll find out what's going to happen. We all want the UK to remain in the European Union. Britain has been a very important partner for us in both growth policy, the digital single market and better, less regulation. We've made a good partner of them many times. The fact that polls have increased the likelihood that Britain could also vote in favour of Brexit is true. The Government has also continuously assessed and evaluated that option. That is where a long process will begin — or start — and Finland will also be preparing for it. The first step would be for Britain to submit a resignation request from the EU. This can already happen at the European Council or in the autumn. But the process is long,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u69	Madam President! Of course, the fact that Britain, a country like this, is the largest military power in the EU, the second largest net contributor and the second largest economy, is already voting on this issue is telling us about the crisis in the EU. That is quite clear. And just as the Prime Minister said, if this Brexit comes, it will trigger a process of at least about two years, which will have to decide, among other things, whether Britain can be part of the internal market, how these existing agreements will be dismantled, how Britain will be involved and whether it will be involved in any way, in the European Union. It is quite clear that Britain will not enter into any EEA arrangement, in which Norway, for example, is involved. So, briefly, let me just say that the big question and the EU is very awkward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u70	And one more question: Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u71	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Not only are we nervous about the outcome of the British referendum, but this is where Parliament and the government and certainly the whole of Finland are about to start preparing for the Midsummer and Summer celebrations as much as the weather is at Midsummer. According to the most recent weather forecasts, there is a big risk that water will come as a midsummer, but this may change. Midsummer is also meant to be grilled, and, Prime Minister, there have been times when people have seen barbecues from both opposition and government sides in this Chamber, and there have been times when cold water has come on both sides. There have been tough debuts, but we have also found the things in which we have found common ground, and on behalf of all the opposition parties, thank you for that. But now that the Midsummer is here, I want to wish the government a sunny, warm, relaxed summer. I know that you are working, but I hope that you will also have the opportunity to rest, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister again, in honour of the last Question Time this spring: What are you going to put in the grill as a midsummer? Do you have any tips for Parliament or the Finnish people?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u72	Madam President! Thank you, too, to the opposition. From time to time, the debate has even exceeded the point of view of constructive debate. As far as the grill and the actual question are concerned, my own grill certainly has Finnish, high-quality meat and vegetables.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u73	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 10/2016 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 15 June 2016. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u74	Madam President! I propose that Article 7 takes the form of what we object to.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u75	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u76	Anneli Kiljunen, supported by Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, has proposed that Article 7(2) be deleted in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u77	Madam President! I suggest that the entry into force provision takes the form of what we object to.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u78	Mr President! I'm in favour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u79	Anneli Kiljunen, supported by Aino-Kaisa Pekonen, has proposed to delete Article 3 of the entry into force provision in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u80	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate will begin, so there will be no more votes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u82	Madam President! As a representative of Parliament in Helsinki, it must be said that the cost of living is the biggest challenge in Helsinki at the moment. Price development in housing is a challenge for all growing urban areas, but especially in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and especially in Helsinki. It is already an obstacle to economic growth and, through it, to economic growth throughout the country, when we know that the Helsinki region is the engine of our economy and is responsible for 25% of the country's gross domestic product. It is also already an obstacle to employment and employment, when people working in low-paid sectors are no longer able to live in Helsinki. But what I'm saying is that the fact that this is all because of a lack of housing is not the whole truth. If you have enough money in the account, you can get the apartment right away. We have a shortage of affordable housing production and, in particular, affordable rental housing. That is why I welcomed the Government Programme’s recognition and recognition of the housing problem in this capital region and noted that efforts should be made to increase affordable housing production. This is a proposal from the government to try to take up this situation and offer more affordable rental housing. I'm afraid it won't answer that question. Even according to the Ministry’s own calculations, this model of interest subsidies will produce squares of around EUR 17 to 20. This is the same fork where non-financial market prices are currently in Helsinki. Is 1000 euros a month for a 50-square double reasonable or not? It depends on each one’s own income level, but one way to look at what is affordable housing is how much of a person’s income goes to housing. More than half of Helsinki's income is spent on housing expenditure, while, as a result of comparison, Europe's large cities, such as Berlin, spend 25% on housing costs. Adding to this the fact that 60% of people in Helsinki are living alone, one adult's households, we know that EUR 1000 a month is an unreasonable requirement. It is quite true that by increasing the volume of housing production we will be able to influence demand and supply and hence its impact on price developments, but that is not the whole truth. It is affected by the planning economy, by the plots affecting it, by the regulations on parking places to the shelters of the population. In Helsinki, we have seized all the means that the City of Helsinki can take itself. But this problem is that this will not go away simply by increasing the volume if they remain the same, i.e. the quality, and how we can get those affordable producers to add to the market. How this proposal seeks to achieve what I consider good at this and what I believe is that this would attract new players to the sector, and this could bring such a reorganisation to the whole market and, through it, to price developments. And hopefully it could also attract new operators of genuine public interest, because the requirement for equity is lower in this model. This is the good side of this model, on which I rest my hope. One big problem for Helsinki — a strong, rapidly growing city — is the challenge of segregation, i.e. separation of different residential areas. We have decided in Helsinki to respond to this challenge in such a way that we have decided on a certain distribution of housing production, which must take place throughout the city, in all areas when the city is building a new one. So some are Ara production, the city's own rental houses, some are intermediate models and some are completely free-money apartments. This is because of the growth of a balanced, multiplicity of people, inhabitants, from each region. Now, with this model of interest subsidies, we are being deprived of the opportunity to use this anti-segregation tool. This will settle in the intermediate model, but in 10 years it will be possible to fatten it up. This is a lottery victory for the grynders in that sense and puts Helsinki in a really big challenge. The other good thing about this is that I believe that this will attract in-fill. And it's ecological. It's about condensing the city. At that time, residents will be brought to where there are already services, where there is already public transport, and this will be a good, high-quality increase in the size of the city. I cannot support this proposal because, as I said, this is a lottery victory for the grynders, and yes, I wonder how we, as Helsinki, will now be able to respond to our agreement with the State in the MAL agreement on the huge 40-year housing stock. When this model comes into force, no one but the municipality itself is interested in the 40-year interest rate subsidy model. It would therefore be very important now to begin the preparations for making the 40-year model of interest subsidies more attractive. It should, to some extent, not be as forward-looking as it is now and take into account the fact that we currently have so little inflation. But at least during the hearing of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, there was a lot of insight from both the members of the committee and experts, good means, and I believe that there would be a political agreement on how to develop a 40-year interest subsidy model more attractive.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u83	Mr President! It is good that this acute problem of housing shortages has been raised here. It has also highlighted this challenge that housing production is quite diverse. From the point of view of the spending limits body, I would also like to highlight this demand perspective. In many cases, especially in the areas where Mr Heinonen's speech was somewhat criticised, in other words, in the Hot Region demand is more precisely for the private house, for the terraced building, perhaps more for the non-subsidised side than for this area of rental housing. I would also like to make it clear that there were criticisms of Hähkökunta about housing production. Now that I look at these statistics, however, Hot municipalities are better able to achieve their goals than the municipalities in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, which is not quite reprehensible. I am also very pleased that the government has now invested, for example, in the Klaukkala bypass, which will contribute to improving the ability of the MAL framework municipalities to contribute to increasing this land supply and also housing production. It is absolutely essential that transport systems work and that we also have access to jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u84	Two more replies, Mr Kalmari and Mr Myller.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u85	Madam President! I think it is important for the government to diversify its housing production options and seek intermediate models. Everything that can get new house production started is good. And we must also remember the actions that have already been taken, for example. In order to obtain affordable housing, e.g. that internal borrowing speculation can no longer unduly increase rental prices for the financing of own foundations. All these types of measures are welcome, and I think that more means will be sought at all times under the leadership of the Minister for Housing. But we need to get cut off from this housing support machine and the automation that small incomes today, for example, in the capital region, no longer want to survive due to rising housing prices. We've got to get this road cut off.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u86	And the reply, Mr Myller.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u87	Mr President! That is precisely what we are talking about when we criticise these government proposals: they do not provide affordable housing. We certainly have a housing shortage now and, in particular, in the longer term, but at the moment we have an acute shortage of affordable housing. This model will create housing close to the market and will increase the cost of housing support, not reduce it. This is a major problem now in the housing policy of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u88	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u89	Madam President! This government proposal has been a good one, and it has had a good aim, and that is something we naturally want to respect. Unfortunately, it has not been completed, and when you read this motion and then read these objections, it is quite well described that problem itself. The creation of affordable housing in the capital region is no longer possible insofar as it is based on new production. I'm a little cynical about this. These different solutions for transport in the capital region have shown that instead of reducing the prices of dwellings, they increase the prices of dwellings. This proposal refers, among other things, to agreements of intent drawn up in cooperation between municipalities and the state in the growth centre regions and to the fact that they have contributed to the availability of plots and the start-up of rental housing production, but the development has not been sufficient in relation to the needs. The committee has also stressed the importance of the MAL agreements and their impact. These MALs have been good, but they also do not produce affordable housing. If, for example, we are looking at rail solutions in Espoo at the moment and now at the new Railway-Joker, which has just been decided upon, then Western Metro has increased the prices of all dwellings in Espoo. In the whole area where the actual rail traffic in the West Metro is going to take place, for example, a 45-square one-way can cost EUR 270000. Another important reason is that, although municipalities are now obliged to increase the transfer of land to rental housing production, they are doing just the most necessary because of the fact that these countries, which are then sold for hard-earned housing production, require these land sales revenue to pay for these tracks. This can be seen, for example, in the City of Espoo budget in such a way that the country’s sales plans have now been drawn up separately for these areas and then compared with the costs of operating and operating the metro. The goal is to get such a high price from the country that when these apartments are completed, so — I don’t know how many noticed, but some time ago even Helsingin Sanomat found out — in Espoo the price of the apartment is already EUR 7000 per square metre. In other words, there is a major distortion here, which this good endeavour, too, this bill will not be removed. Then there is the possibility of speculation, which I think Mr Modig has described very well here. This is quite clear in this law, and I do not quite understand why it has been left here when it could easily have been deleted with a few sentences, as I believe it is well put in the statement of the Left Alliance. There will be a lot of construction, but not at affordable prices, this is how it is going to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u92	Madam President! In his speech, Mr Laukkanen was skeptical that it would no longer be possible to achieve affordable production by means of a new sample. Yes, I believe it is if we implement it in a genuinely public interest. It is not strange to me that you can do something in this world without seeking financial gain. Many European countries, many major capitals — Germany, Ireland — regulate private housing much more than we do here in Finland. Would it be time to take a step in that direction and see if it would bring us affordability? One thing I hope you, Mr Laukkanen, will get to know is group construction. There is also one way in which you can actually create the kind of housing people genuinely want for themselves. In fact, I have seen many such projects, in which the residents themselves designed, combined with their strength, by making one common sauna instead of each having their own, have brought down the square prices. There is also a great opportunity for us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u93	Madam President! Nothing is as much fun as giving up your cynicism. As soon as such good performances come and are found — even though together plots are planned specifically for group construction and community building, which Canada has so much tried with good results — I am prepared to engage in such a debate and give up my cynicism and add some positive drawings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u94	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u95	Madam President! First of all, I propose that this government proposal be rejected, and when I present this motion for rejection, I will also make a proposal for a statement, and the proposal for a statement reads: 'The Commission requires that, in order to increase the construction of affordable and long-term rental housing, the government immediately initiates a 40-year reform of the system of interest subsidies so that the aid is competitive on its terms. The reform must take into account, among other things: a permanently competitive level of interest, an extension of the duration of the interest rate subsidy and a reduction in the backweight of the loan repayment programme." In this context, I would like to thank the entire Committee on the Environment for the attention paid to this problem, the current long-term interest rate, which is long-term housing use for rented dwellings, and it was unanimously proposed that this 40-year system of interest subsidies should be reformed. However, this did not provide the means by which this reform can take place. That is an addition to the statement I have made here. When this debate has already taken place, the government is, in a word, suggesting that it is solving the problem of affordable housing in the whole capital region, but also in other growth centres, particularly in this area of affordable rental housing. The operations of the previous government in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area have allowed the construction of apartments with a average rent of approximately EUR 10 per square metre. This proposal, which is now being put forward by the government and which says that this is the construction of affordable rental housing production, means exactly what has been said here, that we go close to market rents of between EUR 17 and EUR 20 per square metre. There is no way to say that this is affordable, and so it is that more than 40% of low incomes live above all reasonable prices. What we really need right now is this affordable one, and that is why it is important to correct this system of long-term rental housing. It will not be corrected by the addition of such a short-term model, which is not affordable even in that period. I understand that the government has been very concerned about the rise in housing allowance expenditure, and that is one reason why this current 40-year model was corrected last autumn so that its terms were made weaker than those of this new ten-year model. This will mean that if this correction to this 40 - year interest subsidy is not made, we will be permanently chronicled by the increase in the price of living, because only these near - market housing will be built. In the view of the Social Democrats, when we currently have a shortage of money, especially in the state budget, there is no way that money can and must not be channelled into activities that do not go directly to the purpose for which it is intended, in this case to reduce the price of rent and directly to the support of the tenant. This is indeed the very fear that money will flow to the developers no later than 10 years after the end of these restrictions, and that system will work, in particular, through the fact that if the municipalities get these Ara plots, then it will get this capital for this builder. In a situation where we have to cut everything, education, social security, families, it really cannot be understood that this part of construction can then, as it were, be given free money. That is why the Social Democrats are suggesting that this government proposal is rejected and, instead, a serious correction is being made to this 40-year model of interest subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u96	Madam President! I'm going to make a statement to this government bill. I would like to present for approval a motion for a statement by Mr Hassi in the form it is in objection 2, i.e. as follows: "The Board of Directors requires the Government to prepare a legal condition that the difference between
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u97	Madam President! I support the proposals made by Mrs Halmemenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u98	Madam President! Indeed, we are dealing here with a government proposal that is creating a ten-year model of interest subsidies for the construction of rental dwellings. We heard a wide range of experts in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and their message, as usual from experts, was for and against, but clearly more people saw duubies in the proposal. Housing policy needs reform in Finland, but I dare to doubt whether this is the right direction. I personally feel that long, 40-year interest-rate subsidies should be able to be developed, inter alia, in order to maintain reasonable rent levels for dwellings. Fortunately, this development was mentioned unanimously in the committee's report, but it will also require practical action from the government in the future. This current model, which is already in force, must be made so attractive that it is of greater interest to the various operators and developers than it is at present. We know that when the current long-term interest rate subsidy model leaves rents of 10 and 12 euros per square metre, the starting rate for this government-created short-term interest rate subsidy model is up to 20 euros per square metre. For elected residents, the government is proposing a ceiling of EUR 3540. I have doubts about that threshold, and I wonder whether it is the limit that solves these existing challenges that we have. The least that can be done after this proposal has been implemented is to closely monitor the performance of the proposal. We are living in a time of saving and cutting everything, and it obliges us to be even more precise about where public support is directed. I think we have one big shortcoming in rental housing. It is not a lack of housing, it is not a lack of rental housing production in every region, it is a lack of housing where a low-income person, low-income families can live. I support Mr Myller's motion for rejection as well as his proposal for a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u99	Madam President! Earlier, Mr Mäkelä referred to my first speech and questioned my statement that these MAL objectives have been frozen, especially in the Hot municipalities around the capital region. Representative Mäkelä looked at the amounts, and of course it is true that the capital region and the Helsinki region have missed out on the number of Hot municipalities, but when you look at what has been the targets, the target has been 38,000 new dwellings in the Helsinki region and there are 35,000 born, which is 94%. In heating municipalities, the target was only 11760 dwellings and the realisation was 9476, or 81 per cent, and in the Helsinki region the realisation has been 91 per cent. In other words, one tenth of the target has been frozen in the capital region and the Helsinki region, but the Hot municipalities have remained in the fifth.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u100	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 11/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u101	Madam President! This government proposal proposes to amend the foreign law to tighten the conditions for family reunification. With regard to these backgrounds, the Committee states in its explanatory statement that: The European Union has been under unprecedented migratory pressure in 2015. The scale of migration flows from different groups and their secondary movements has shown that the Member States of the European Union have not been prepared to respond to the challenges posed by such large and continuing flows of human beings under current structures. This is also due to the failure to control the EU's external borders and the serious problems that have arisen in the Schengen system and in the functioning of the Dublin Regulation. In other words, illegal entry through the external border of one Member State in an area without internal borders affects all other Schengen Member States. The European Commission has adopted a Communication on migration management in the migration strategy, and in that Agenda on Migration, the Commission describes the measures it considers necessary in view of migration problems. The Commission has also adopted its first legislative proposals, which have been supplemented and repeatedly adopted since then. Many of these have been discussed in the Administrative Committee and a number of Commission proposals are currently pending in this area. In this Europe-wide migration crisis, the future development of which is difficult to anticipate, several EU Member States have largely tightened or tightened their legislation. Even in countries where a secure income has not previously been required, such as Sweden, a study has been carried out to prepare for the introduction of the condition. Migration pressure has also extended to Finland, and for Finland it is worth noting that our country is not, as a rule, a transit country but a destination country for those seeking to enter the country. In this context, the Committee also notes that it is justified to assess the conditions for covering the costs of immigration or the provision of related benefits as part of the overall capacity to bear society. The Government Programme states that the criteria for family reunification will be specified in accordance with the EU's Family reunification Directive. For a long time, the EU has been pursuing a coherent immigration and asylum policy. It requires uniform standards and implementation of standards and compliance with Member States' commitments. The aim of the reform is to manage immigration, reduce the costs of immigration, promote the ability of family gatherers receiving international or temporary protection to meet the livelihood of their families, facilitate the integration of family members into society, and make the conditions for family reunification compatible with the requirements of other Nordic and EU countries as they tighten up their own systems. In previous reports and opinions, the Administrative Board has considered it necessary for the Union to be able to implement a single European immigration policy. Family reunification. According to the Constitution, the right of a foreigner to come to Finland and reside in the country is governed by law. The starting point is the current rule of international law, according to which foreigners are not generally entitled to settle in another country. International human rights treaties and also European law are the result of restrictions in national law. With regard to international obligations and EU law, the committee refers here to the reasons for the government's proposal and the opinion received from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. A residence permit on the basis of family ties may be granted in principle to a person included in the definition of family members of the Aliens Act and this is generally based on the concept of a nuclear family. According to the Foreigners' Act, a family-gatherer refers to a person residing in Finland whose residence in Finland is based on a residence permit for a family member abroad on the basis of family ties, and there the report then defines these family members in more detail. Applicants for international protection may be granted asylum in accordance with the Aliens Act or a residence permit in accordance with it on the basis of subsidiary protection. In addition, refugees can be admitted under the so-called refugee quota and temporary protection granted under the said Aliens Act. The conditions for family reunification have been tightened up in 2010. Among other things, the family members of beneficiaries of international protection were provided with a livelihood. In addition, a forensic study was introduced to determine age and also the provision that a residence permit may be refused on the basis of family ties if the family collector has circumvented the regulations and provided false information on his or her identity or family relationships. The conditions for a residence permit for a minor or his or her guardian have been changed in such a way that authorisation may be granted if the child is a minor on the date on which the application for a residence permit is settled. The time for initiating the application was therefore crucial in the past. In 2012, amendments to the Aliens Act were introduced to waive the right to initiate a full-time family member as part of the introduction of biometric identifiers. So now national legislation is being revised to reflect the directive by law. Under the current Aliens Act, the issue of a residence permit requires that the income of a foreigner is secured unless otherwise provided for in the Act. A derogation from the income requirement may be granted in an individual case where there is an exceptionally strong reason or the best interests of the child so require. The protection of family life is central to international agreements, EU law and the Finnish Constitution. However, it is possible to set certain conditions for family reunification, but the conditions must meet the international obligations and constitutional records binding on Finland and be proportionate in such a way that they do not restrict family reunification disproportionately or become disproportionate in individual cases. The objective of the EU Directive on family reunification is to protect family life and to define the minimum conditions under which a third-country national is entitled to family reunification. In addition, the Directive provides additional optional conditions and the Family reunification Directive allows a Member State to require evidence that the family-gatherer has stable and regular incomes and assets sufficient to maintain the family-gatherer and his/her family members without having to rely on the social welfare system of the Member State concerned in the long term. The right to family life is protected, among other things, by the European Convention on Human Rights, which provides that everyone has the right to private and family life and respect for it. In its interpretation, the European Court of Human Rights has held that the obligations of Article 8 do not impose an obligation to respect the choice of an immigrant from the country of residence and the obligation to accept family reunification on its territory and has not considered it unreasonable to require that a resident must show sufficient independence and permanent income. However, the Court has examined whether the income requirement in various cases has been reasonable. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union states that everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life. The best interests of the child shall be taken into account in any decision taken under the law and shall be based, inter alia, on the Article of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The draft law means that it meets the requirements of the Family reunification Directive and international obligations and complies with the EU rule of law. The draft law is not more favourable than the directive in terms of living conditions. The proposal does not propose the introduction of any other additional conditions allowed by the Directive. In this respect, the draft law is much more favourable than the minimum conditions of the Directive on family reunification. The Directive applies to family assemblers who are third-country nationals and does not apply to the right of residence of their own country or family members of an EU citizen. The Directive contains specific provisions on the right of refugees to family reunification. It is now proposed to amend the law in such a way that compliance with the living conditions is a condition for the granting of a residence permit for a family member of a person who has received international or temporary protection in the event of subsidiary or temporary protection by the family collector in accordance with the Directive on family reunification. The proposal does not apply to members of the family of the asylumer and of the quota refugee when an application for family reunification is submitted within three months of the date of notification of the decision on the asylum granted to him or of the decision on the recognition of the refugee quota in our country. In addition, a family is required to have been formed before the full-time family comes to Finland and the family taken into the refugee quota has been formed before the full-time family is accepted under the Finnish refugee quota. The three-month period referred to above is based on the Family reunification Directive. The income requirement does not apply if the residence permit is granted to a sibling of a minor child who came to Finland who resides abroad, if the siblings have lived together or their parents are not alive or the place of residence is unknown. The committee points out that, in individual cases, an exception to the income requirement can be made if there is an exceptionally strong reason for it or the best interests of the child. This regulation is not proposed to be amended in the government proposal. When assessing the possibility of derogation, account must always be taken of international obligations binding on Finland, EU law, the Constitution and international and national case law. A derogation from the income requirement is defined in Article 39 of the Aliens Act, and paragraph 2 shows that the income of a foreigner is considered to be secure when granting the first residence permit if his or her stay is paid by means of earned income, entrepreneurial activity, retirement, wealth or other sources of income which are considered to be normal, in such a way that he cannot be expected to be required to receive income support within the meaning of the Income Support Act or other equivalent income protection benefits, but such benefit is not considered to be compensation social security benefits. Temporary recourse to income support or the like is not an obstacle to the granting of a permit. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that, according to the ruling practice of the European Court of Human Rights, the protection of family life does not result in a general obligation for the State to accept family reunification within its territory, but, in line with the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Administrative Committee also considers it clear that the euro limits set out in the guidelines of the Finnish Immigration Service are only indicative and, in considering the fulfilment of these conditions, it is necessary to comply with the Constitution and the provisions of the human rights treaties, in addition to the provisions which directly govern family reunification. The Administrative Committee therefore notes that the fulfilment of the income requirement must always be assessed on a case-by-case basis, without the euro amounts required for living being applied in a formula. In many respects, the case law has laid down the lines to be followed in the consideration of income and has modified the application of the living condition. It is clear from the opinion of the Constitutional Committee that it may be difficult in practice for those who are affected by a change in income to reach an adequate level of income and therefore the application of the income requirement may become a real obstacle to family reunification. This point tends to highlight that point — again, paragraph 39. In the Act on Foreigners — where there is an exceptionally strong reason or the best interests of the child, an exception may be made to the income requirement in an individual case. The provision on deviations from the income requirement has already been originally laid down with the involvement of the Constitutional Committee. In addition, a group of persons who may in principle be disadvantaged or more vulnerable than those applying for a residence permit on average will be covered. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law estimates that there may be many challenges and health problems in the life situation and management of individuals, and the Constitutional Committee believes that these factors must be taken into account when assessing the existence of an exceptionally strong reason. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is important that the threshold for deviation does not become excessively high in interpretation, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also emphasises international commitments and the Convention on Human Rights. Finally, Mr President, the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has been taken into account in the fact that the best interests of the child are explicitly mentioned in the provision as grounds for derogation. The Administrative Committee has also drawn attention to this. The derogation should be justified at least when parents of a minor who comes to Finland alone apply for a residence permit in Finland, and the Constitutional Committee continues to stress these rights of the child and human rights issues. In its 2014 annual book decision, the Supreme Administrative Court has stated that the best interests of the child did not require deviations from the income requirement solely because the refusal of a residence permit could lead to a break in the cohabitation between the child and the other parent. With regard to the three-month period, the committee held a debate and was fully informed of the situation and resources of the delegations, but the Administrative Committee concluded that, if the submission of the residence permit application for the family has not been successful for reasons attributable to the authority, the deviations from the living conditions must be considered reasonable, and it is clear that the delay in this case cannot lead to a loss of entitlement for the applicant in the event of an extension of that period. Finally, the Committee on Administrative Affairs has drawn attention to integration on the basis of opinions. Integration will be difficult if the family cannot be combined, working life will be a very effective integrationist, and the aim of the proposal is to direct the labour market impact of beneficiaries of international protection, and the role of the family in integration will also be central. The committee strongly stresses the need to promote real employment opportunities for beneficiaries of international protection. And then information on the right of a family member who has been granted asylum or who has been admitted to Finland under a refugee quota must be given to the refugee in a clear, timely and comprehensible manner, at the latest, at the time of notification of the decision to grant asylum or to accept the refugee quota. It is clear from the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the draft law can be dealt with in the order of the ordinary law. This report by the Administrative Committee is not unanimous but contains an objection,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u102	Mr President! The government's proposal revolves largely around the prerequisite for living, which is why I am also focusing on it in my own speech. There are many problems with our livelihoods, the biggest of which becomes meat in the guidance of the Finnish Immigration Service rather than in the legislation itself, which deals with the matter in a very general way. The first big problem is that our indicative income limits are at the top of the EU comparison. Compared to our key control countries, such as Sweden, Denmark, Germany, Belgium and France, the minimum income required in Finland is considerably higher. The difference is particularly large when it comes to families with children. This is, at the very least, questionable as to whether a reasonable and proportionate income claim can be referred to — and more so as the whole idea of the income requirement in the directive is to prevent people from resorting to income support, but the basis for our income support is well below the level required by the income requirement of family reunification. Another major problem, linked to the income requirement, is its wide-ranging consideration by the authorities. This leads to the fact that where there are no precise amounts, there are no precise conditions anywhere, people — when they consider submitting an application for family reunification, which may be a very long, difficult and costly process, require travel and investment — cannot know what the probability of going through the application is. I recently came across an example where an unhappy immigrant cleaner had taken three different jobs in order to obtain the income required by the income requirement. He had received a negative decision because the Finnish Immigration Service did not believe that anyone could work three jobs for a very long time, even though these income conditions were met. The third problem, which relates to this income requirement, is that in practice it usually requires a permanent monthly income and, in the case of paid employment, an employment relationship that is valid for an indefinite period. In view of the labour market to which the majority of people with an immigrant background are employed — it is the low-paid, pre-prisoned sectors — even if they give their bread, there are very few who eventually get the kind of good-paid, permanent employment that would make it possible to live together with the family. In practice, therefore, our living conditions have been defined by a decision of the authorities without a proper examination of the constitution or human rights to such a level that the majority of immigrants do not have a realistic chance of family reunification. The income requirement itself is socio-economically unequal and I personally believe that it should be abolished and not extended. But when we live in this world in such a parliament, I would hope that we could at least try to moderate this system. One good start could be to include different insurance-based living conditions alongside a regular wage-work system such as this. In Denmark, for example, there is a model where you can collect 5 tonnes, deposit it into an account, and this deposit is a guarantee against the social benefit burden. There is a commitment model in Germany: a third party may commit itself to paying the subsistence costs if the family is unable to do so. If you are a low-paid but well-connected immigrant, with such options your chances of getting your family to Finland would increase considerably without a significant increase in the threat of social benefit burden for the Finnish state. Well, there is a great deal of emphasis in the Committee on Administrative Affairs on the possibility of deviation from the Government's proposal, and I assume that this has been done because the members of the government parties who are deeply aware that this is not right, this is not fair and this is not human, and hope that the exceptions will be used to equalise injustice. I can tell you that this has not happened so far and I personally do not believe that this will change significantly in the future. Our family reunification practices are cruel, unequal and make sure that there are quite a few orphan children and quite a few parents who miss their children in this world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u103	Mr President! The provisions relating to family reunification have been considerably tightened in Finland for several years. Unfortunately, all parties are equally responsible for this development, because unfortunately all parliamentary parties have taken their turn to make the family life of foreigners more difficult. However, I have noticed that few Finns know how difficult and expensive family reunification is at the moment, so first a few words about the current situation. Currently, the requirement for a secure income already applies to immigrants who have moved to Finland because of work or study, as well as to secondary families of refugees, as was evident in the case of a well-publicised Iraqi family. This is the result of a change in the law in 2010 which extended the income requirement to family members of beneficiaries of international protection if the family was formed after the arrival of the full-time worker. Family reunification of minors has been hampered by the provision that the child must be a minor until the application for a residence permit is settled. The procedures for processing applications are long. In 2015, the average processing time was one year. Since many underage applicants are teenagers, the treatment period may lead to situations where the family reunification process is being interrupted if the family-gatherer reaches the age of 18. In 2012, a change entered into force, according to which the family member himself has to go to the Finnish diplomatic mission in order to get the process of family reunification started. For the application, the applicant needs a large number of official documents to be certified as legal. In addition, a fee must be paid for processing an application for a residence permit. Currently, processing an application for a residence permit for an adult family member costs EUR 455 and a child’s residence permit costs EUR 230. In addition, family members must legally reside in the country where the representation is located, which requires either a visa or a residence permit. Family members must travel to diplomatic missions for biometric identifiers, family bonds interviews and possible other tests and interviews. They themselves must pay for both travel and stay in the country where the delegation is located for the entire period of this application process. In practice, this means that, for example, a Syrian woman living in a refugee camp must first travel with her children to search for the necessary documents for the family reunification process, after which she must travel to Lebanon for example and apply for a visa to Turkey in order to reach the Finnish Embassy in Ankara. If he gets all the way to Ankara, he'll have to arrange for his family to live. In Turkey throughout the process of family reunification. The Somalis seeking family reunification must first be allowed to travel to Ethiopia before entering the Finnish Embassy for the start of the Addis Ababa process. This is therefore the current level of Finnish family reunification legislation, without further tensions from the government. The number of family reunifications has collapsed as a result of a rigorous forecast of the conditions that have been made over the last few years. From 2011 to 2012, the decrease was 70 per cent. Since then, the level has remained low. In 2014, only 625 applications were submitted. The tightening of conditions has hit minors who have come alone. One positive decision on 37 applications was taken in 2012, one positive decision on 157 in 2013 and ten positive decisions on 43 in 2014. Today, therefore, the government is tightening up the criteria by extending the requirement for a secure income to also beneficiaries of international protection. There is no other reason for this than the government's desire to reduce the number of foreigners arriving in Finland. This government is so willing to reduce aid to people in distress that it even decided to postpone the introduction of the electronic application system in the delegations so that the number of applications would not increase. Strictness is justified by the need to tighten legislation at the level of other European countries. However, the government has a wide margin of discretion as to how much is defined as income that is considered sufficient to support itself. The family of two adults and two children is required to pay EUR 2,600 per month net after the entry into force of this legislative amendment. Only 20 per cent of Finns make such high net incomes. So now the government is making this demand for a living for those who have just fled the war. The three-month period proposed by the government during which this income requirement would not be applied is far too short, given how difficult and costly it is to start the process. In other European countries, this time limit varies from three months to one year. There are also very big differences in income requirements, as Mr Kontula has explained here. Mr President! In practice, this change in the law means that the government wants to prevent refugees and those who have been granted asylum from enjoying the right to family life altogether. This is an extremely brutal and extremely inhumane policy. In public, representatives of government parties explain how to help women and children, especially those in a vulnerable position, in the midst of conflicts. In practice, the government is now making integration more difficult and leaving very hard-experienced underage children alone, women and children in distress at the mercy of human smugglers when they are left without safe routes out of conflict zones. The income requirements set out should not be extended to beneficiaries of international protection at all. It is a real disappointment that the government is not even prepared to moderate the euro-denominated limit on living standards.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u104	Mr President! I can't really imagine what my own life in Finland would have been like without my own family and their support. About 20 years ago, when we arrived in Finland, it was dark and cold, but the only thing that brought light was its own mother, his own father and his little brother. I can't really imagine what it would have been like to come to Finland right now and without knowing whether my family is safe or not, not knowing what their situation is. In this state many families, many children are currently coming to Finland. If my own father or mother had come to Finland alone and had to leave us children in the middle of the war, we might never have made it here. Going from your own country, your own home, to a completely new and unknown is not easy for anyone. Even less is the case when leaving is compulsory and there is no way to stay. Leaving children and family behind in the middle of a war is even more difficult. We often bring out floods and waves in this debate when we talk about these people. But less often we talk about people and individuals who have families in exactly the same way as all of us here. Family reunification is part of integration policy. The early stages of residence permits are important and should be used, for example, to study the language and not to red tape or fear family reunification on their behalf. Maintaining or even facilitating family reunification, as has already been heard here — there are already strict laws — would help precisely those women and children we have talked about a great deal about this year. We have also been concerned about the radicalisation of young people, but how often do we ask what these young people are, what their backgrounds are. Are these the young people who are without a family, forgotten young people in remote areas? This government bill, which is in conjunction with the strict prediction of others, is said to be... — For myself, this is a very difficult matter. All these tightening ups that have been imposed on foreign law are difficult, but this law already goes to a very human level, to the level that is enormously important and important in people's lives, and that is family unity. — Here we are putting very strict conditions of living into the law. As Mr Andersson said here, not even many Finns can achieve such levels of income. This week, a person working in Parliament wrote that even his income would not be sufficient to have his family in Finland. The income of a person working in the Finnish Parliament would not be sufficient. Instead of encouraging us to seek and work, we set the bar so high that hope is defeated right from the start. The aim of these presentations is not to ensure people’s good lives, but to prevent people’s opportunities for that good life. It is neither human nor fair, Mr President. Anyone who has applied for a job and anyone who has followed friends, acquaintances who are looking for a job knows how difficult it is to apply for a job in Finland today. You have to file applications, you have to file hundreds of applications, maybe get one job interview. You have to get different references. You have to do a lot of work to make that job available and available. How do we imagine that people who come from completely different circumstances into a completely foreign country, a completely foreign environment, can do this right here and now? Looking for a job requires concentration, and this whole makes people’s lives almost impossible. This case of the Iraqi family was opening up for many, but unfortunately it is one of the many. But it is good that even through these individual people, individual fathers, individual mothers and individual families, we can understand what these tightening ups mean in the lives of individual people. This bill makes it impossible to unite families when, unfortunately, it has already been very difficult. Imagine a situation in which a minor child should make EUR 2,600 to get his mother, father, sister to Finland. A minor child should make EUR 2,600 to get his father, mother and sister to Finland. - Yes. This is precisely what the report of the Committee on Administrative Affairs says: that only being a child does not release these income limits, that is, this could immediately also apply to children, and that is very inhumane, Mr President. Such hastily submitted and prepared legislative proposals without proper consideration of their real impact on immigration, integration or, in particular, on people's lives are wrong. I do not think that this draft law or its tightening up should be adopted at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u105	Mr President! The opinion of the Administrative Committee on the draft law is careful and broad, but it is impossible to agree with it because the draft law itself is unnecessary and cruel. In the Committee on Administrative Affairs, we were opposed to these tightening ups which the government is proposing, particularly for three reasons. Firstly, they are humanly wrong and are fundamentally reducing human rights. Children in particular should not be separated from their parents. Secondly, they make integration more difficult. Most of us know how important family support has been in the various adversities of our lives. If we want to integrate people, we should not undermine the foundations of this work while talking about investing in integration. Thirdly, these proposals reduce the channels of legal, controlled entry. Constantly obstructing legal entry can drive more and more people onto dangerous routes and at the mercy of smugglers. And we're not the only ones. A number of well-known non-governmental organisations calling for the surrender today include Amnesty, Finnish Refugee Aid, Refugee Advice Centre, Red Cross, Unicef, Plan, Church Foreign Aid, Child Welfare Confederation, Save the Children's Association, Mannerheim League for Child Welfare, Marthaliitto, SOS-Lapsikylä, Federation of Mother and Child Homes, Trasek ry, Finnish Mental Health Association, Seta and Women's Affairs Union. The performance has given rise to great concern in Finns. When implemented, the government's proposal means that the high income requirements to have a family in Finland even apply to minors and children coming here alone. Migri's announcement of the possibility of deviation and the slightly lower possible income threshold they put forward will not change this whole. This proposal is simply thoughtless and cruel from the point of view of children's rights. In principle, the income limit requirements are clearly higher than the income level of many Finnish employees' families. The income requirement may be understandable in itself, but it must be reasonable and not applicable to people in distress. Otherwise, such a livelihood will discourage individuals and in practice prevent family reunification. The impression is that it is the prevention of family reunification that is one of the unspeakable objectives of the government. I think it would be honest if this were to be said out loud if we wanted to do so. Mr President! In fact, today's newspapers reported that only one in five Finns will receive a net wage, which alone would be sufficient to bring family reunification to justice in a family with two children. The conditions are also stricter than in many other EU countries. Migri does remind you that they can be flexible in individual situations, but does this individuality come true? The displays up until now are anything but encouraging. The criteria for family reunification have, as is well known, been tightened up in the past. Here in the Chamber, Mr Andersson gave a credit for what he already has to do if he wants his family in Finland. Even the effects of the changes that have already been made on children's rights, for example, have not been fully evaluated, let alone any information on the consequences of the changes that have been made. At least the criteria that are constantly changing, difficult to predict are not in anyone's interest. The bill would also apply to people already in Finland. This is not reasonable and not even consistent with the government's own objective of reducing the so-called attraction factors. The government has already taken care of reducing these so-called attraction factors with its other decisions, for example by abolishing humanitarian protection in Finland. It is good to remember that, for example, in Sweden that has received much more asylum seekers, foreign law has been tightened up on a temporary basis. In contrast, Finland, frightened by some 32,000 asylum seekers who came to Finland last year, threatens to make sad exceptional cases new, permanent normal. There are other problems with the proposal, such as an unreasonable three-month period for starting family reunification. This is often technically impossible because applicants, as has been said, often travel across national borders in order to make an application. The planned electronic application procedures are obviously also being abandoned, except for the fact that this is happening now. Of course, Finland cannot solve the refugee crisis alone, Mr President. Nevertheless, I do not think it wise to press other European countries towards the bottom. We need common solutions. A common solution is not to interpret the EU directive on family reunification to the minimum and quite differently from what is intended. The minimum of the directive is indeed intended to be a minimum, not a desirable level. Although Finland is not introducing all the minimum now, the direction is quite clear: at this rate we are heading towards the bottom. In this country, they're also proud of it. This can then be considered in history. I would like it to be reasonable to expect not to actively turn our backs on those in need and, for example, to separate children from their parents, but to do something.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u106	Mr President! The government will continue with its inhumane, shameful and family-disrupting asylum policy. Like Mr Razmyar, I myself was just wondering what I would have done if I had moved to Finland alone and had not gotten my family here. What would I really have done without that love and support? Would I have been able to move forward in my life? In fact, many times I have asked the same question from the representatives of the government parties: What would we do if someone denied our right to family life? How would that feel? Please respond, representatives of the government parties. How would you feel about being safe in some country, but your loved ones would be in the middle of a conflict? How would that feel? Ladies and gentlemen of the representatives of the government parties, I myself have received a great deal of contact from Finns over the last few days. Finns do not understand how cruel a civilized state can become. You're practically taking people's right to a family. You take the right to a family from someone who has been identified by the Finnish authorities as in need of international protection. So these are people who have proven to have run from danger. The human right to a family cannot depend on the thickness of the wallet. Human rights cannot depend on whether a person is rich or poor. You should know that, representatives of the True Finns, you have talked a lot about the affairs of ordinary people, but that is not, of course, visible here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u111	Mr President! The Ombudsman for Children has stated that Finland has now become a country that no longer respects the rights of the child. Throughout the last year in Finland, we talked about why we only help these men. Why don't we help the women? Why don't we help the children? Now that we finally have a chance to help women and children, The Sipilä government will slam the door right under their noses.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u114	Mr President! However, to begin with, we must thank the Administrative Committee for the good work that has been done on this draft law, in the sense that the report is very thorough. Although I am sure there is a difference between the draft law itself and those articles, we must thank the committee for having a good working climate and for bringing this difficult issue to fruition. But then, if you go into this legal text itself and this content, there may be enough reason to really go over the background that we are in this situation. This situation, both in Finland and in other countries, is largely due to the fact that when we in Europe have not been able to find common practices in order to respond to this acute crisis, then each country has started its own race, and then, of course, other countries are also following other countries' practices and Finland is involved in it and then everyone is tightening up their practices. And that is why I say that, even in this situation too, there should be a greater need to seek common solutions, especially between us in the Nordic countries, so that we can have common practices on these issues too. To this difficulty in family reunification: The changes in 2010 and 2012 have been well reviewed here, but also the regulation adopted in the spring of 2016, when these costs of applying for family reunification have been fully borne by the applicants, have entered into force. In this respect, family reunification in Finland is already reasonably difficult and is now being tightened further. Against this background, it would have been appropriate for this government proposal to have been moderated, at least from the most difficult of all and from those points which have already been much criticised here. Our Socialist parliamentary and committee groups wanted to make three changes to this bill which could have made this even a little more reasonable. Our first proposal relates to this secure livelihood. Indeed, the law does not define that level, but only talks about a secure income, and then the Finnish Immigration Service, together with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, makes this income limit table, which they then use as a guide in these family reunification cases. That is also what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in its own opinion, drew attention to the fact that this secure income should be better defined by law, and that is why we proposed that we follow the Swedish way in which this secure income should be defined as equivalent to the protective part of the debtor in the enforcement cycle, i.e. the part of the person's salary at least to be left in the hands of the person in the event of enforcement, should be regarded as a secure income. This would result in a considerable moderation of this income requirement, and this would also be a change that would largely help, for example. This situation of a large Iraqi family in public. However, the message must be that when we want those who come here to be integrated and employed, we also need to get a family to bring them to Finland. Everyone may think that we have these asylum seekers, who receive the residence permit here, who work or are employed to a large extent in low-wage sectors, and in any low-wage sector, the level of pay is not such as to allow for the introduction of a spouse and two children, i.e. a net income of EUR 2600. It would therefore be quite reasonable in that respect to moderate this income requirement, and it would also give the impression that when you work here in Finland, you can get a family here as well. Our second change concerned this position of children, how children could be better taken into account. Unlike this government proposal, we suggested that children should be excluded from this secure income requirement. This would really take into account this child’s position, as has also been suggested by experts to pay more attention to it. This, too, in the longer term would really make it possible for children, when their parents and siblings also get here, to prevent radicalisation. Everyone can truly imagine, as good examples have been shown here, that if a minor child should get this secure income together, that is absolutely impossible. That is why it would have been a place for moderation and would have hoped that the representatives of the centre and the coalition in particular would have been prepared to take a closer look at this child's status. There has now been a lot of talk about whether this would cause children to be put on the first wave to seek refuge in Europe. However, in the light of these figures, it is good to remember that again this year, some 250 minor asylum seekers have applied for security, so it cannot be said that there would be a huge influx of children, who would then be put here to seek refuge. It must also be remembered that when you look at the decisions on family reunification that have come to a positive decision and where the child has been a family shaper, I think we have one case from that year 2014. That it cannot be said that the children would have applied for this family reunification in any way. Then this would also make it easier for the government parties here, I am sure, to call on each child to look at this individual reason for finding it. It would then also make it easier for the Finnish Immigration Service in these processes, when children would have been excluded from this secure income requirement. And then the third requirement relates to this three-month period for a refugee status. It would be extended to 9 months, and this would genuinely enable it to be submitted, for example, at the Ankara Embassy, where we currently have the worst bottleneck. When we are discussing this three-month deadline, it is also good to recognise what the report acknowledges that this also requires additional resources. According to conservative estimates, it is about 125 new man-years of work that we delegations would need to get through this three-month deadline, that is to say, we are talking about a considerable amount of investment in what the government parties are apparently prepared to do in this economic situation too. This extension would also facilitate the fact that now that the government parties have been very reluctant to promote this electronic filing of an application, we would now at least be given a chance here. If we do not want to promote these electronic applications, we would extend the time for everyone to have the opportunity. These amendments to this bill would have made much more reasonable, but when the government parties were not prepared for these moderations, I have to say that there is no alternative here but to vote in favour of the wreck.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u115	Mr President! We have heard a wide range of speeches here today that have opened up this foreign and immigration policy from very broad angles, and I hope that these many points of view and the facts that have been raised will bring about a change in the policy and direction that we are currently taking in our foreign policy. The purpose of this law is, as the text says, "The proposal is to amend the foreign law so that the conditions for family reunification are tightened up. The family members of beneficiaries of international or temporary protection would be required, subject to certain exceptions, to make a living regardless of the time when the family was formed in order to accept the application for family reunification." This bill is part of the continuum in which the government implements the immigration policy of Finns. It's hard-hearted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u122	Mr President! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the good speeches that have been made in this toilet today. It has been good to hear that there is still a heart in this hall to make good decisions, hopefully. I hope that this Chamber will also end up in decisions such as those made in previous speeches before me, but I am afraid that it will unfortunately be the opposite. Consider a situation that would be different from our point of view. Let us take the imagined situation that Finland is in a state of war, that there would be a conflict, crisis, violence, death everywhere, enemies who are terribly difficult to identify and different, it is difficult to define which group belongs, which is the right side. Let us take this situation and the imagined idea of the state of this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u125	Mr President! What am I gonna say to my kids? What will I say to my children when they ask whether there will ever be any more horrors in history? What do I tell you about Prime Minister Sipilä, who has promised that he will build a Finnish society for better, create a future and believe in the future? What do I tell you about Secretary of State Soin, who, abroad, says he defends the rights of girls and women? What do I tell you about the Home Secretary, Orpo, who has just been given a responsible role to lead the great party and seeks to build faith in the future? How can I give my children faith in their future in Finland? What happened to you? What has happened to you that this cold has happened? I understand that something must happen to a person if he loses his ability to be compassionate to other people. It can't be just the color of the skin. What happens to people in a country where they live in the best country in the world where there is no trouble, and we want to give a signal that we do not respect the dignity of every human being or that we do not respect the life of a child in such a way that we promise to safeguard his future. What am I gonna say to my kids? What have you done with my country? The voice of the majority is not always right. A majority may not make fair decisions. I do not feel that we need to go into these details; we have talked very well about these problems of this law today. But, in principle, it is a matter of self-interest, of self-interest, of being prepared to put aside morals, justice and respect for human dignity and of building a Finland in which people are unequaled and we do not respect the essential needs of people. We have had no need, there is no need to limit family reunification further, especially asylum seekers or refugees. It has already been a very strict practice in Finland. What is the reason why we want to show that Finland is a country that does not tolerate foreigners or does not want to give protection to people in distress and does not give a child his mother or father? What's the country? What happened to you? What's the person that's so cold? Why does he want to be involved in making decisions about other people? Why does he want to be involved in building Finland? What is the basis if it is so cold that you want to prevent families from being united and children from getting their parents to you? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u126	Värderade Herr Talman! Vi behandlar nu ett betankande om ett lagförslag som kommer att göra det betydligt svårare för personer som beviljats asyl i Finland att få en familjemedlem till Finland. Det är en skärnning av utlänningslagen och det ska sägas klart ut att regeringens huvudsyfte med lagändringen är att man vill att Finland inte mera ska framstå som ett så attraktivt land för asylsökanden och flyktingar som tidigare. Utskottet har haft en noggrann och saklig behandling och betankandet är omfattande. Problemmet är att vi inte behöver en sådan ox lagstiftning som minskar vöjligheterna till familijeåterförening. Man kan helt enkelt inte skriva ett bra betankande om ett sådant rai lagförslag. Därför bör lagförslaget förkas.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u127	Mr President! At least five amendments to the Aliens Act have been discussed in this Chamber during the spring. In the debate on referrals, there must have been many others, but I myself drew attention to the fact that it is quite difficult to create an overall picture. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also drawn attention to this same issue. If we have one law that is brought about every two weeks or so to be changed in various places, what kind of whole it becomes, it is difficult to manage. Of course, in all these matters relating to immigration and asylum seekers and the movement of foreigners there would be a need for one of the most uniform practices in the EU as a whole, and we in our reference group should of course look at how: In the Nordic countries, these issues are addressed and what decisions are being taken. Of course, both in the Nordic countries and here, governments change and change, after which, of course, it is not always possible to follow automatically according to the so-called strictest version. But our reference group should be the whole of Europe, and there in many areas, such as development cooperation, we have wanted to follow the other Nordic countries. This has already been the subject of an assessment, and when this proposal was launched, we in the committee asked several times where the estimates of these previous legislative changes, which have been made during the previous parliamentary term 2003, 2004, 2010, 2013, when, among other things, this big change in principle has been made, that applications for family reunification should be submitted in the country of origin, not here in Finland, or that the livelihood requirement has been introduced. There is no livelihood for the first time in this current proposal and it is still not in the law there, but there was no proper assessment of these when this bill was made, as, of course, there was a need to do with normal, reasonable legislative drafting. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has paid attention to a number of issues, and, based on these and, of course, all other expert opinions, we also made our own amendments. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also draws its attention to the interests of children and the Declaration of the Rights of the Child signed by Finland — a rather unambiguous Declaration of the Rights of the Child signed by Finland, which has now also been ratified by Finland. What is the real possibility of a child, if you think of a Finnish 15-year-old, to make at least 500 euros a month in addition to school, not to mention those who come from abroad? A prerequisite for a secure livelihood is the question that the Constitutional Committee also drew attention to, first of all what is the word 'property' which has been given attention here, which is the possibility for one authority in the Finnish Immigration Service to consider and what is the exactity of the possibility of deviations. These would have been necessary to open up this legislation and write it out. The third point was the provision of information to beneficiaries of asylum and residence permits, to which this motion for a paragraph also came in the proposal of the Administrative Committee. So we, as a three-person group of the Socialist Committee on Administrative Affairs, with which we received the support of the whole group, came up with a three-point amendment so that minors would not be subject to the requirement for an income limit. When you look at the figures we've been talking about here today, an anchor child conversation is a legend. It doesn't exist. The second is that this three-month possibility without a limit of income would be increased to nine months, when it would be even more or less possible in practice because these trips, visas in the countries of origin are indeed difficult, and quite simply the Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not able to deal with them. The Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs announced that it would require at least 125 more person-years of work to deal with these at least moderately if those people could get to those countries. In other words, two seasons are not enough for three months, so at least nine months could be more or less possible. Then, thirdly, this moderation in line with the Swedish model: the protective part of the enforcement bar, which would mean EUR 678 for one person and EUR 243 for children, is a completely different amount to what the Finnish Immigration Service currently uses, to which the Finnish Immigration Service has issued a guideline, i.e. EUR 1000 per person and then the children involved. If the Finns survive with this amount so that it remains in hand after the enforcement of their own sums, why not also move people from abroad? This would have facilitated family reunification for other reasons in Finland, not just for asylum seekers. It would also have been easier for other people if, according to the guidelines of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there had been some justification for what the amount was based on, limited to the consideration, given clearer instructions and moderated the amount. This would have led to a different situation for many other families, such as this Iraqi family in the media. Now my question is after these five legislative proposals: this is the last one, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u128	Mr President! A representative was surprised earlier this week, yesterday in this Chamber, when he heard that the government's aim was to tighten up immigration policy. This is quite true and correct, there is nothing surprising about it. Finland and the whole of Europe will continue to tighten up the criteria for family reunification and other immigration, so this is not the last one. Finland does not look on the sidelines, but we also have to shoulder joint European and Nordic responsibilities. The Government's asylum policy programme clearly states: 'We will fully strengthen the criteria for family reunification under the EU's family reunification directive, at least as a condition of living and independence from social assistance'. It must also be pointed out that this was not agreed until last autumn as a result of this flood, but as early as a year ago in the government negotiations. We must remember that our criteria are still a long way from the practice and opportunities of the directive and from what the neighbouring countries have done in many respects — Sweden, Denmark and Norway. As regards language skills, the family collector should pass a Finnish-language test at some level in order to apply for a residence permit for family members. The same requirement should also be made for family members seeking to be here. In addition, a family-gatherer should be required to live for two years in Finland, before which the family could not apply for a residence permit. Does this sound terrible to some people? I think there is nothing wrong with Nordic or European cooperation, but it is natural that we should follow what our neighbours are doing and also show the way as pioneers in some cases. Family reunification must not become the legal route of illegal immigration. Yes, we must listen to our Swedish, Danish and Norwegian colleagues, so in this respect I agree with Mr Paatero that we should follow what is happening in neighbouring countries and learn from the experiences that have taken place there. Of course, we don't want to fall back into Impivaara. Mr President! The activities of the Finns Party in the government are now beginning to appear, and this provision of income is a clear indication of this, as has already been the case here with a few Members. It is great that the goals recorded in the so-called "Niva Election Manifest" in 2010 are now part of the Government Programme. When I looked at the opinions given to the committee, for some reason the Finnish Somali Federation, for example, did not appreciate the changes so much. In this context, I would like to bring another change in family reunification. The initiation of an application for family reunification was to become electronic in the spring. This would have meant that there would have been more and more applications. Everyone can imagine what that would mean if the process of family reunification could be started remotely, for example, from Somalia.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u133	Mr President! With regard to what Mr Eerola has said, I think it is now a bit of a mess of oatmeals and wolverines when you talk about these arranged marriages. This is the concept of a new family that we have had since 2010. But now you also want to make it more difficult for them, which are referred to as the "old family", i.e. whose family ties have already been formed before they come to Finland. And now that much has been said here about wanting to help those most in need: this family reunification is just one way we can help those women and children, those women and children who are most in need, so that we can get them from the feet of conflict to Finland. This is quite strange now that you too have said many times here that it is necessary to help those who are in need and should be targeted specifically at those who are most in need. Now we have to ask why on earth we do not do so and take the most distressed of all here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u134	Mr President! It's like you can cry, but you can't laugh. Mr Eerola, I said the same thing yesterday when we also went through a very unfortunate legislative amendment: It is one thing to make very bad decisions, there is another thing to enjoy it. And it's awfully hard to understand, really and truly, here's your party and your vision. And it is even more difficult to understand, in fact, that unfortunately there are no members of the Assembly or of the Centre, even in the Chamber, who are not even there. All in all, this is a sad day in many ways. The cold attitude has somehow been directed and passed on to us all in an unprecedented way, but fortunately, if you want to think something positive about it, it was at least for me when Mr Biaudet asked what was happening to Finland and where the good of people is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u135	Mr President! When Mrs Eerola spoke in her own speech about asylum seekers without a family, I would now like to make Mrs Eerola aware, at this stage at the latest, that this tightening is now specifically about the status of family asylum seekers. In other words, this will, above all, weaken the position of children and make it more difficult for women and children in conflict areas to get here. I find it interesting to follow this policy in the Finnish Government, that when all the other promises made in the elections have been betrayed, when the unemployed have been cut off from the pensioners when the position of employees has been weakened, you mocked here for getting one thing through: a change in the law that weakens the position of children in very precarious situations and makes it difficult for people who have received asylum in Finland to integrate and live here. This is obviously at the heart of your political thinking. I can't believe it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u136	I will give the floor to the representatives of Elo and Yanar and then to the cause of this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u137	Mr President! Of course, I can give Mrs Andersson a long list of tens of points on what the Finns have achieved in the government, but I do not believe that Mrs Andersson still believes in it, so this would be a pointless debate in that sense. But it can be said from this that, of course, our profile as supporters is different, Mr Andersson, the new President of the Left. When you look at all Finns, a significant proportion of Finns, a large majority of them, would like to reduce the number of asylum seekers in Finland, which means that the majority of Finns are in line with what I think the government is doing here. And as representative Eerola here raised well, this freezing in relation to the fact that you can do this kind of remote application, is also a remarkable achievement for us Finns. Power is, power is used. You get what you want.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u138	Mr President! As has already been said here, this tightening is already being applied to the position of family members. This deserves an answer from Mrs Eerola that she is, as it were, misleadingly confusing different terms here, and, as I said, this is hitting the most distressed people. Another thing that could be pointed out to this representative, Mrs Elo, is that, of course, your support profile is different than before the election. You have lost almost half of your support — in that sense. One thing that I think is quite worthy of attention is this ending an electronic application, as it were. Here we have a couple of speakers who have made a political contribution to it. This is significant. I would also like to thank Mr Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u139	I will give Mr Marin the floor and, of course, the starter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u140	Mr President! Representative Elo here stated that when power exists, power is exercised. Yes, as Mr Andersson has said here, I am surprised that the power has not been exercised for the benefit of the weaker Finns, the elderly, families with children, ordinary people, but to weaken their position in relation to the many cuts that the government has done. Now that you said that you have power and you want to use it, you choose that you use it specifically to make life difficult for the most vulnerable, to break families, to leave children in the midst of conflicts, war and violence. This is your choice. You do not choose to help the Finns, but you choose to weaken the position of the most vulnerable. This will tell us something about your worth.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u141	Now, the debatator, Congressman Eerola.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, now that this seems to be the need for a debate, let us proceed. Mr Niinistö can wait to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u144	Mr President! This is where Mr Eerola referred to the refugee quota. Once again, I would like to make Mr Eerola aware that the refugee quota is a different system for ensuring that people who need asylum are able to get here, but the assessment itself of the need for help and the need for international protection does not differ in itself when talking about refugee quotas and talking about the evaluation of what the Finnish Immigration Service is doing on the basis of these asylum applications. It is entirely inappropriate to make some distinction between refugees coming through the refugee quota and people who have been given asylum here. In substance, this is a very similar assessment. Once again, I would like to ask Mr Eerola: is there a proposal coming from the government, for example, for a significant increase in the refugee quota in this situation, or how do you intend to help these people in need? Representative to Elo once more: where is the handprint of the Finns in the politics of this government, as far as it is concerned?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u145	Let's take a little debatt on someone's journey. I have marked the following speeches or I can see what has been requested here: representatives Razmyar, Mäkelä, Joona Räsänen, Marin, Niinistö, Elo, Hakkarainen, Eerola, Kari, Mikkonen and across. - Yaha, Yanar still wants it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u146	Mr President! I am wondering here, in the same way as Mrs Marin and Mr Andersson, about this larger line of the Finns, which you have been pursuing in this government for almost a year. In Finland, too, it is those who have the least, and those who have the weakest are those who are cut from them. In this situation, of course, there must be some sort of profit in terms of your policy when you get these tightening ups on foreign law, and then you can boast on this side of the street in the turbulent and squares. But I believe, however, that Finns are wiser and will see this through your policy in a way that you may not see here, unfortunately. Similarly, I would be interested to know that we are equally in favour of increasing the number of refugee quotas and it is quite true that these refugee camps should be able to attract much more asylum seekers, quota refugees to Finland: are you prepared to increase the number of refugee quotas? Are you prepared to increase the amount of development aid?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u147	Mr Mäkelä, next floor, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u148	Mr President! This Socialist line on this issue is a little unclear when, on the other hand, one mouth says that the family reunification of the government is actually all right, and then the other mouth calls for their annulment, so that you can decide for yourself what your line on this issue is. By the way, the left-wing opposition seems to be more interesting than their own line of action. This is also quite extraordinary. For example, President Rinne promised to increase the guarantee pension — he did not succeed in raising the guarantee pension. With the Finns on the Board of Directors, the guarantee pension has been increased three times as much as Rinne ever promised. This revision of the prices of day care, which the opposition has so much spoken of, is still stubbornly claiming to be an increase only, but in fact it would also reduce the fees for day care for many low-income families. How could this be?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u149	Mr President! Let's go over Mr. Mäkelä and the others. When you look at this proposal now, in a rather concrete way three moderations were made: three moderations that would have made this even a little more bearable. It is well understood what the situation is internationally in our control countries, and in other countries, too, these blackmails are taking place, so it is quite understandable that in Finland, too, there are certain aspects of legislation that need to be revised. But some kind of reasonable person has to be involved in this business. And then, when you appeal to this directive on family reunification, you will be aware that the directive on family reunification does not define, for example, the way in which this secure income is verified in Finland. It's all national, it's own legislation. It was therefore suggested that it should be modelled on Sweden, where this secure income is formed from the protective part of the enforcement arch, the protective part of the debtor, which would make this much more reasonable also in Finland. And then, if you now look at these achievements of yours, you have now managed to change one word in that Yle-Law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u150	Mr President! I would like to make one more point here — which has, of course, been raised here in a few speeches, but which I believe is too little — and that is precisely the importance of the family in this integration and how to adapt to the new country in which we have arrived. And certainly this blackmailing of family reunification, the fact that those who have come here as asylum seekers, refugees cannot have their own spouses, children, those who are close to them, whether through family reunification — it will be very, very difficult, almost impossible in the future to get these close people here in the new country or after they have arrived — will also make integration very difficult, yes, the importance of their loved ones in life, in everyday life will be so enormous. I don't know if you can imagine what it would be like for you to be without those most dear, closest people, fearing for their safety and well-being every day.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u151	Mr President! This isn't about the economy. There's no point in talking about it if this bill is worth it. This is about the image of the people and what kind of Finland they want to build. This is an attempt to create obstacles to the very routes through which people in need, especially women and children who suffer the most in war's feet, could enter the country easily and legally in a way that will also facilitate the integration of their spouse who is already here and which would be a way for them to integrate as well as possible. It is a question of family rights, children's rights and people who are already integrating into Finland. The position of these people is being made more difficult, which is more bullying than anything else. This is no attraction, but you want to limit the realisation of human rights in Finland, and it is your dream for some reason. And what amazes me is how this other government, the coalition and the center, has been able to go along with this very negative politics in terms of human image.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u152	Mr President! Traditionally, family reunification has been one of the most important routes to Finland by number and thus also economically important issue, and if we were to keep the line in all Nordic countries similar to the one before this crisis, we would certainly continue to do so. The question was: What has the Finns done by other means? Well, for example, this competitiveness pact, which has now been successfully achieved, has been promoted, and at least on the basis of speeches, I understand that the Social Democrats have supported it and have tried to promote it. It is one of the things that power has been used for the benefit of Finnish employees and companies. But if you cut from Finns, you also have to cut immigration. There can be no holy cow, especially in a situation like this, where the whole of Europe is and other countries are also doing their own tightening-up. And we must be surprised at the Social Democrats, when Mrs Rinne, the President-in-Office of the Council, said last December that a programme of measures for asylum policy is looking very good, where this tightening was, and now suddenly it is no longer good enough. That it's the Comrade Tuuliviri
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u153	Mr President! From the larger line and the achievements of socialism and the achievements of socialdem last season little: The Government's report on the budgetary plan for the years 17 to 20 shows that, at the beginning of the last government term, the state's treasury was well below EUR 10 billion, but less than EUR 4.5 billion last year. With regard to state guarantees, the situation has worsened dramatically in a few years. In 2011, the sum was good 28 billion, almost 50 last year. In 2011, Finland had close on EUR 6 billion in capital exposures, while in the following year the amount had bounced to exactly EUR 17 billion. That's why when the government pays and finances the poor and these people, where did you get the state finances in this kind of shape? The Finns and the government have to cut from those it finances. That's what this is all about. And here's the thing. We don't want to take these refugees, these asylum tourists.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u154	Mr. Speaker! To Mr Razmyar and Mr Andersson on this refugee quota, which you asked about, the refugee quota will remain more or less the same during this regime. This year it's smaller than last year. Then to Mr Marin: In the past, when these families have been more easily integrated, I believe that this integration has been extremely poor. If you look at integration as a measure of how well Afghans, Somalis and Iraqis, for example, have been employed, learned Finnish, the figures are pretty bad, the unemployment rate and so on. And when it comes to this, what we have achieved in the government and what we have not done, there is a long list of things that can be compared to our election programme: family carers' holidays are secured, family carers' fees are increased, the guarantee pension has been increased twice, the indexation of income support is maintained and it has been transferred to Kela, the Yle-vero tax has been abolished from over 300,000,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u155	Mr President! When the representative here earlier stated that the Finns of Peru did not waver about these performances, it must be said that, having listened to these intercessions, the atmosphere is quite different. But I must say that in no way do I personally marvel at the Bible’s line here. In fact, it is not interesting at this point in any way. What is interesting is why the Minister of the Interior of the United States is the one who drives this completely cold, inhumane policy forward, and throughout this many-hour debate, no one has been here to answer these questions. There was talk about how we feel, how family reunification affects integration or anything else. It is not a question of what our experience on this issue is, but we have quite clear research into the fact that having a family is the best way of helping these people to integrate, and it is also the way in which we prevent these families, these women, from having these children.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u156	Mr President! True Finns have often spoken of the need to help them on the spot and to help them most in need and to direct aid to them and therefore to reduce this attractiveness in order not to come here. However, the decisions that have been taken have been cut from development cooperation, which is precisely the money that would take help there. There has been no proposal to increase the number of quota refugees — it was Mr Eerola who said that this year it was smaller than last year. And now we want to tighten family reunification, which is one of the few controlled and safe routes to Finland, and then we want to reduce Finland's attractiveness. I think it would be all right to be frank at this point to say that you have no interest whatsoever in helping the most distressed people in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u157	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Elo stated that family reunification has been one of the major channels of legal entry into Finland. It has been one important and central way of legally coming here, but whether it has been significant, I disagree with that. As I said in my own speech, these family reunification applications have only been launched in the last 600 or so years because of the weakening that has already taken place. In other words, in the last few years, only one family member or one third of the beneficiaries of international protection has even received an application. And now we're tightening up. Then, when a term such as asylum tourism came up, I would now also like to make it clear that this amendment to the law concerns people who have been identified as needing asylum in Finland, who meet the criteria for international protection and who receive asylum in Finland and whose integration is now going to be made more difficult by preventing them from being able to get their family members here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u158	Mr President! I am in line with Mr Mikkonen: the Finns are not just interested. Those speeches about wanting to help the most in need, about wanting to help people on the ground, are nonsense that does not appear in politics. All the cuts to development cooperation on this side of the hall cause joy, joy, and so do these extortions that come to these family reunifications. That you are really happy about this and quite spectacularly rejoice, so it is as if denial is really exciting. For example, if we want to help through quota refugees, we will increase the number of quota refugees. Representative Eerola, please, let us make a joint initiative on it, even if we raise it many times. That's how you can help people on the spot. And it's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u159	And one last response. Congressman Lehto.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u160	Mr President! In view of the fact that about 10,000 asylum seekers who came into the country last year receive that positive asylum decision, if each of them were allowed to submit three applications for family reunification, which is according to the statistics that they make three...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u163	And let's move on to the list of speakers. Congressman Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u164	Mr President! This is a struggle for the soul of this great country. It is a question of whether we have powers in power that believe that our dream is to defend the human rights and well-being of all people, or whether we have those who believe that the dream is to limit human rights. It has become quite clear in this debate that some here have a concrete, political objective of restricting human rights and that is your aim. What gives rise to concern in this debate is that there are three parties in the government. There is one party in the government that is actively pursuing such a policy, and there are two other parties in the government that are very large Finnish parties, traditional responsibilities in this country, which, however, have contributed to the establishment of a state of justice and a just society, even at some level of principle. Where are their MPs today? Where is the voice of the members of the assembly? Where is the voice of the representatives of the city centre? None of them have spoken in this debate at all. It says quite a bit that when others in the government party celebrate the fact that human rights are being restricted, children are being deprived of their rights to their family, people already in the country are being deprived of the opportunity to get their loved ones here to Finland, even if they work for years as bus drivers and local carers, where are you? The Members of the Assembly and of the Centre are escalating their responsibilities and decisions that they themselves have taken, and even so that they themselves are in charge of them. This proposal has been brought to Parliament on the proposal of Minister of Interior Petteri Orpo, and I would like to hear from Petteri Orpo the answers to these questions. I would like to hear some answers as to why Finland seeks to base the EU's family reunification directive on a number of actions, although this directive says that it aims to increase the protection of human rights in Europe. It says that it will increase the protection of those countries that have had a lower level of family reunification in the past. This government is running behind the back of the EU here and says that we need to find common EU practices in order to raise the level to a higher level, but first we go towards the bottom. Where, then, are the Finnish proposals to raise the level, if that is what you are seeking? Minister Orpo has not made any concrete proposals either in Finland or in the EU to raise the level of the EU's directive on family reunification, but, in fact, it is a matter of adapting to and actively implementing the policy of a single government party. It is also the case that most human rights organisations find the EU-Turkey agreement to be contrary to international agreements. We have seen even hundreds of people coming across the Mediterranean every week on increasingly dangerous routes, hundreds of people, as they take more dangerous routes towards Europe, drown because EU decision-makers desperately wanted to dam down the needy people coming from Turkey. In this case, too, all three Finnish government parties have actively applied for this agreement. Why did you do that? Did you not know or listen to the warnings that said that these people would then have to seek refuge on increasingly dangerous routes? Mr President! The proposal we are debating today is precisely a proposal to prevent people who are in distress from coming to Europe with their loved ones along the legal routes. So what does this performance do in practice? Most of the time, a familymaker who's already in the country is a man. Those who would be associated with this country are women and children. In other words, we are now setting limits on the children and women most affected by wars and crises in the current situation. At the same time as the government is talking about helping the most distressed, the doors are now being closed to those who need the most help, namely women and children in conflicts where it is difficult for them to find security in their own everyday lives. At the same time as this legal route is being closed down, or family reunification is being made more difficult, what are these people doing? They are more and more likely to seek dangerous maritime routes towards Europe, because most of them want to be together with their families. It will cause only more people to come and seek asylum at our borders along life - threatening routes. This will not therefore reduce the number of asylum seekers, but will increase the number of asylum seekers. When legal routes are blocked, then people come here those routes that are still available to them. This is therefore already reflected in the statistics. So before the end of the year, when about one third of those who sought refuge across the Mediterranean were women and children, this figure is already over half this spring. In other words, the EU-Turkey agreement and the various restrictions on the right to family reunification are all closing the EU's borders and Finland's borders, just when women and children are the ones seeking protection. Is this what the Coalition Party and the Centre for? I would like to hear answers to these questions from Minister Petteri Orpo, because I have never heard them during his term of office. How can you pursue such a heartless policy and not answer difficult questions? I would also like to hear the answer to what the representatives of the People's Republic of Finland have been very active about and in their speeches have pointed out: it has been a political decision. We know that already in Ankara and other embassies there are long queues for family reunification. Why has the government suspended the introduction of this e-service system when different authorities feel that it is ready? And here the representatives of the People's People's Party told us that it was a political decision: they were able to ensure that this system was not put in place that would make it easier for these people to deal with and family associations in these embassies. So when these things add up, This bill introduces income limits to people who have already been granted protection from Finland, people who receive subsidiary international protection or asylum here, i.e. their own needs have been identified. They come within income limits, including those who already have a family and that family is waiting there in the former home country. In addition, the second legislative proposal restricts access to legal aid and has also halted the introduction of this e-service system. All these measures appear to be the government's active limitation of human rights in Finland and wants to ensure that people do not come to Finland for safety first, and if they have been given protection here, they cannot get their families here. And this is heartless politics. Mr President! When we consider what kind of country we want to live in, I would like us to have a government that thinks that Finland is an attractive country to live in for the people who are here. Now we are actively talking about the need to reduce Finland's attractiveness as a country. Don't we want this to be a good country to live and live in? I also wonder at the image of the people who actively see the limitation of human rights as a political objective and say that it seeks financial savings when all the evidence shows that the people who are best integrated and employed are also able to get their families and to integrate as well as possible in the security of their local community. What image does it give of this country to people who receive asylum from Finland and who are years ready to work, to train themselves as a nearby nurse, and then to whom it is said that your income will never be sufficient to get your spouse and two children into this country? It is a very cruel message, and it is a message that makes integration more difficult. A recent study by THL also shows that for integration, the fact that the family can also be safe is extremely important in preventing depression, anxiety and other traumatic problems. Mr President! I believe that this bill is one of the toughest, toughest and cruelest legislative proposals in this government, and it is part of a whole in which, for some reason, the government has decided actively to restrict the rights of people in Finland. It undermines the rights of children, it undermines the integration of those who have already gained protection here, and there is no proper basis for it, nothing. Family reunification is already difficult, as several people have said, and family reunification is an instrument for integration and promotion of employment, and family reunification is the legal way to come to Europe — and not by risking their lives to seek refuge across the Mediterranean or to come to the border as asylum seekers. I therefore continue to call very strongly for representatives of the government parties to hear not only the voices of opposition parties in this matter, but also the voices of representatives of all the churches in Finland, the voices of our main NGOs and the voices of the Finns who want Finland to be a country with a heart and soul, and a country in which it is tempting to live for all of us. It cannot be a political objective to make the country unattractive to live there. It cannot be a political objective to dream of restricting human rights, because it leads to inferior rights for all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u165	Madam President! I was in my room resting, and at the same time I followed the conversation, but at the time when Mr. Ville Niinistö called the people of the United States to be skaters who dared not come to the Chamber to defend the government's proposal, I decided to come here anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u168	Madam President! I could tell Mrs Zyskowicz what this law is about. This law is about taking away people's family rights. I have often asked you here how you would do without your family. I have never received an answer to this question from anyone. It is ridiculous to say that neither Finland nor Europe could afford greater responsibility for refugees and crises in the world. If you think about refugees and where they are at the moment — they are in very much poorer countries — then in that sense we can be more humane, we can increase refugee quotas and we can keep safe and normal routes such as family reunification. You're making it impossible at the moment. It's an embarrassing performance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u169	I will give the following people a reply, and then we will move on to the list of speakers. Representatives Kari, Mr Andersson, Mr Niinistö, Mr Zyskowicz and then a few others will be taken, Mr Heinonen will come from there. — Representative Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u170	Thank you, Speaker! Perhaps to Mr Zyskowicz the fact that, in the two hours that we have been discussing this matter here, we have been going through quite thoroughly how this proposal by Minister of Interior Petteri Orpo hits the women and children most of all, who are currently at the feet of conflicts that are currently not safe. And when we were talking about what supports integration and what does not, according to all the studies, it is precisely the fact that we get a family to come to us that makes it easier for people to adapt to society and experience being part of that society. And if it is said that this is going to interfere in some way with the attraction factors, then the fact that this proposal is already applied to the people who live here, who are building their lives in Finland, so that all the basis on which the government has given this proposal has already left.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u171	Mr President! Representative Zyskowicz here said that there can be no much less narrow line in Finland for family reunification than in other European countries. If this government proposal is now implemented and these current income requirements are extended to people who have received international protection, then Finland will have stricter income limits than many European countries have. I do not know how long Mr Zyskowicz was resting in his room, but, among other things, Mr Kontula, who spoke first in this debate, went through very well how many European countries actually have more reasonable demands than will be made in the future. In addition to this, there are also different practices in different European countries with regard to this time limit, from three months up to a year, and Finland is now once again coming to a solution that is remarkably short.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u172	Mr President! What is most questionable from the point of view of the rule of law is the creation of administrative practices which effectively prevent people from seeking protection. That is what this draft law contains, for example, this three-month deadline and the fact that the government has decided politically not to use the e-service system. It is also completely inhumane that if we talk about these so-called attraction factors, for which there is no serious evidence, then this should by no means be retroactive legislation and concern those people who are already in Finland. They are here anyway, and we have already given them protection. What is the message to these people that they are told that now, afterwards, they are deprived of the right to family reunification and expect completely unreasonable income? Even now, one of the hardest in the EU is our demand for income limits. And the same retroactivity applies to the abolition of humanitarian protection by law. You said it didn't apply to a lot of people. More than 400 families have received a letter saying that hello, your residence permit criteria have been removed, and they are already in distress. This is inhumane.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u173	Madam President! Contrary to what Mr Niinistö claimed, there is much evidence of attraction in Finland. Last year, there were at least twenty thousand of these exhibitors. So twenty thousand, at least, Iraqis came across Europe, through Germany, through Denmark, through Sweden, specifically to Finland. Why? Do you read the papers? There these people told us that they came to Finland, among other things, because they have the impression that it is easier to get their families to Finland than to some other countries. Do not say that there is no evidence of attraction when we have thousands of displays in the process at the moment. Congressman Andersson compared income limits in different countries. There's a difference. But, Mr Andersson, there are yet other factors in other countries which are more stringent than the conditions we are now proposing. Once again, Congressman Kari spoke heartbreakingly about children and about not taking their family away from them. No, you can't. In other words, we should not encourage families in Africa and the Middle East to send their children, separate their children from their families and send their children to Finland. And this is how we try to prevent it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u174	Madam President! Personally, I hope that in the future we will be able to ensure that families can live together and integration is successful, but now the numbers are so great in Europe that, before we have common European rules, we must look as close as possible to rules similar to those in other European countries and, above all, in the Nordic countries. In Sweden, under the leadership of the Greens, a policy of family reunification will be made even more stringent than it is now in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u176	Mr President! It is true that Sweden has, in history, assumed its responsibility for human rights. And so have we in recent years. The number of people arriving in Sweden is many times higher than in Finland, and even now only a fixed-term law has been passed there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u177	Mr President! For the record, Mr Niinistö and others, the asylum process is not, or should not be, a means of immigration or immigration, but a means of providing temporary security to people who need it as a result of personal persecution. The reason for asylum is not that there is war in the country. It is not an unambiguous basis for asylum, but must be able to demonstrate personal persecution. There are now quite a few signs of equality between immigration, perhaps in particular illegal immigration, and the pursuit of Europe and the search for asylum, which are two very different things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u178	Mr President! Now that even representatives of the government parties consider it terribly important to seek uniform practices with the Nordic countries, this has been precisely what has been said about the opposition to seek them. Then comes this question when we look at this income limit, that Sweden, for example, has a much lower income threshold than Finland, and it has been suggested that Finland should adopt the same practice as Sweden, i.e. tie this secure income
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u179	Mr President! It has been very sad to see how, particularly from the ranks of the coalition, this issue focuses on everything but safeguarding the rights of these vulnerable children. You know who has always promoted these blackmails in the government, who has opposed them. You know that your deadline is impossible for many families and children. You know that these income limits deprive hundreds of children of the opportunity to have a family of their own. We have never been able, at any point, to give proper justification for these income limits and for these time limits, or for why you have not explained the implementation of children's rights, or for why these proposals are not made on a temporary basis. None of these questions have been answered from the point of view of the Assembly. Instead, you accuse others when you should take responsibility for your own policy. Even these families deserve it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u180	Two replies, Mr Yanar and Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u181	Madam President! Mrs Kari has made an excellent speech. In a way, it is a genuine speech that, of course, the assembly must be able to take responsibility for you being in the government, you support these laws, you give the Finns what they want. Yes, at this point I wonder where the civilists are, where are the international coalitions who know that the world is global, who know that the things that happen in world conflicts affect the rest of the world. Arguments that you do not want children to drown in the Mediterranean — you support all agreements that contribute to this. If you have any concerns about these people, then you should create the right, safe passages, but there has been no voice from the people of the United States. It's really, really shocking.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u182	Madam President! Congressman Kari here is talking about not breaking up families. No child wants anything more than to live with his own family. Mr Kari, we are doing this legislation precisely because of the fact that there is no incentive to break up families with these children: there would be no incentive to separate the child from his family, send him on a dangerous, life-threatening journey by human smugglers across Africa, across the Middle East, across Europe. I do not understand that you do not understand — or you understand, but you want not to understand. This is about us not wanting to encourage children to be separated from their families, children to be sent. How do you think those underage children who came alone have fallen on this journey? By running away from their family or because the families have sent them and collected the money?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u183	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u184	Mr President! In Helsingin Sanomat 21. The study was commissioned by TNS Gallup on 1 October 2015. In it, 70% of respondents say that Finland needs to tighten the line in accepting asylum applications — 70%. There's been an appeal here to various organizations. I appeal to the Finnish people, who are shown by the scientific sampling of such a poll. The aim of the Government proposal is to manage immigration, reduce the costs of immigration, promote the ability of family assemblers receiving international or temporary protection to meet their families' livelihoods, facilitate the social integration of family members and ensure that Finland does not appear to be a particularly attractive asylum seeker. The basic purpose of making family reunification a condition for a secure livelihood is to ensure that Finland’s public finances are not unduly burdened by the presence of a foreigner and his family member in the country. And so it is proposed that the conditions for living be extended to include the combination of a family of people who have received international protection or temporary protection. The Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where I myself worked, gave its opinion on family reunification. The opinion did not give rise to any more commotion or news, but the opinion states, among other things, that "according to the ruling practice of the European Court of Human Rights, the protection of family life is not the result of a general obligation on the State to accept family reunification within its territory. Furthermore, the Court has not considered it unreasonable in principle to require a foreign resident to provide sufficient independent and permanent income to enable him to provide the basic income of a family member for family reunification." In addition, the Committee's opinion stated that it is important, in the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that the threshold for derogation does not become excessively high in interpretation. The committee also stresses that the conditions for derogation must be assessed in accordance with international human rights obligations binding on Finland. In this sense, regulation does not become constitutionally problematic." In short, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs believes that Finland can make the proposed tightening up of the conditions for family reunification, but there must be an opportunity for a case-by-case consideration. Thus, in its simplicity, this is the case with the unanimous opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that for some of us this has come as a surprise. When this debate has been heard here, you have almost already needed a handkerchief yourself, there has been some sort of "Life Only". It has been particularly interesting to observe the public debate on the fate of the Iraqi family seeking family reunification and the criticism of the government’s family reunification policy. The media had been so focused on bombing the government that the media completely forgot who were also architects of the family reunification policy that was destined for the Iraqi family. Under the chairman of the Greens, Ville Niinistö, with the support of Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto, the entire Green Parliamentary Group unanimously approved in 2010 the amendment to the foreign law which you are so opposed to now being applied to this Iraqi family. The world record of piousness. Of course, a new record can be reached when the government, with this proposal, tightens — yes, tightens — the current practice of family reunification. I can tell you that I have never heard from the Greens how many refugees or asylum seekers you actually want in Finland, for example, in a year. That is what I have asked in many election panels. There's never been an answer. Is it 100,000, is it 150,000, 200,000? There will never be an answer, but the answer always is that more than now, but not how much. The government itself has an answer to this. This proposal to amend the foreign law is an urgent matter, as, as the migration crisis becomes more dynamic, the tightening of the proposals on income needs to be put into effect as soon as possible. As has been discussed here, if there are, for example, spouses and two children in the family, the full family must have a net income of EUR 2,600 per month, otherwise you cannot bring your family to Finland. Bearing in mind that certain incomes, such as child benefit and student allowance, are counted as income, the net income threshold is quite reasonable. Further negotiations of a working group set up by the government must set out as many obligations as possible under the EU Directive and the implementation of which has been agreed by one government. As Mr Eerola pointed out, the asylum policy action programme states that the directive on family reunification will be fully implemented in Finland. These include, for example, the requirement for housing and residence time, the age and language skills of the spouse and the family-gatherer. Representative Alanko-Kahiluoto told the MTV3 news that the government is going to make it a rule that the family can be broken up in this way. In reality, the decision of the Finnish Immigration Service regarding the Iraqi family is based on the legislation of 2010, with the Greens on the board. Now the Finns are sitting on the board, and our goal is to tighten family reunification practices in accordance with the directive and, as has been said, fully. The Government Programme has defined that attractiveness needs to be reduced, and this is one step in that direction. As the Red Green Guard also knows, the income limit for family reunification has been in the Finnish Immigration Service's internal guidelines for years. Another day when the Greens are opposed to what they themselves have been regulating. Comrade Tuuliviri, on the other hand, is an entirely different number, our friend the Social Democrats. Your chairman, Antti Rinne, commented to Yle News on December 8, 2015, that the government’s immigration policy seems very good. President Rinne said that the SDP could support all measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u188	Congressman Hakkarainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u189	Mr President! Representative Elo repeated a number of arguments that need to be corrected. This is indeed the main rule for the exception, because before family reunification, income limits have only been applied to those families that were formed in Finland after coming to Finland. This would now be extended to all other families, i.e. families that were established before they came to Finland, and the situation of children and women in these families would be made more difficult. He also claimed that the income threshold had already been established before and that is why it should be extended to refugees. Well, it's never been thought before of the income limits that they could apply to those who got asylum here. The income limits were originally created as an instrument for family reunification of work-related immigration and are now being extended to refugees, i.e. international protection, and that is wrong. It is also contrary to the need to help those in need and to the removal of legal routes from those who first gain protection here so that their families cannot come here. And then Mr Elo also said that the directive is now being fully applied. This is the minimum directive
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u190	Madam President! I wonder why these laws are regulated in this way, in anger or something.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u207	Madam President! For all of us, family is important. It is no wonder, therefore, that Finns were greatly shocked by the fate of the hillside family, about which the Helsingin Sanomat reported a week and a half ago. The family that came here from Iraq years ago is now threatened with conversion. The mother of the family and the three-year-old child are wanted to be sent back to Iraq and separated from the father and infant of the family, who are allowed to stay in Finland. After the noise of the family’s fate, conversion has been postponed, but the family is not yet safe. If the tightening up of family reunification proposed by the government comes into force, we will see many similar fates. How can it be thought that a person who has been given asylum here can integrate and join us in building our common Finland if he constantly has to wonder how his loved ones are doing in the midst of conflict or in the feet of war? None of us would then be able to focus on our own lives, not on learning a new language, education or working. The income limits imposed on those who have received asylum here are totally unreasonable. When 80 percent of Finns do not meet those income limits, how can it be imagined that an asylum seeker receiving international protection would be able to do this? We know that a large proportion of them are employed in low-wage sectors and that the immigrant's euro is 75 cents. When the income threshold is set excessively high, it only creates despair and hopelessness when you know that good integration, employment and hard work do not help to get loved ones to you. The government has called for controlled immigration. Family reunification has been one of the few controlled and safe routes to Finland. If family reunification is prevented, it will force more mothers and children, the most vulnerable, on dangerous routes and at the mercy of smugglers. Mr President! The family keeps society together, including the family of the refugee. The government's motion completely ignores humanity. It's heartless. Income limits are even required for children who come here — children who are in school and for whom the game is work. As Mr Kurttila has said, the government's proposal completely ignores the child's interests. Finland makes decisions that break families. It separates children from their families. We deny children the opportunity to grow up with their own family. Finland is committed to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. According to Article 9, every child has the right to live with his or her parents. This right will not be fulfilled in the future if the government's proposal is adopted. Is it really the case that the government wants Finland to no longer comply with Article 9 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child? How is it possible that at the same time the same government is applying to Finland for membership of the UN Human Rights Council?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u210	Mr President! You know, I've got a caravan running around, even though I hear a little slump. The Government will present legislative changes in accordance with its programme. Many times the Minister of the Interior has been called here to justify his bill. Well, the Minister of the Interior presents laws that are in line with the Government Programme, for the reason that there is a Minister. That's what ministers do. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs agreed that this law could be enacted in normal order. In that sense, I am surprised at what the left-wing opposition has said in this Chamber. Do you not have credit for your own representatives in the Constitutional Committee? Where do these speeches come from? It is known that the aim of the Greens is to bring more immigrants into the country. Representative Elo asked me earlier how many immigrants they wanted. They don't tell you how much, but they want more. That is clear. This would be an easy way of getting more immigrants into the country, so to speak, first coming men to seek asylum and then getting married and bringing families along. It is well known that this is what we want to do. This is an ideological matter for the Greens, and preventing it is an ideological matter for the Finns of Peru. This is how it's gonna be. The Government's Asylum Policy Action Plan of 8 December 2015 had included some 80 other issues in which the criteria for family reunification under the EU's Family reunification Directive were tightened up in full, separately mentioned, the income requirement and independence from social assistance. It is clear from this that the tightening that has now been proposed is only the beginning and certainly not the end. I support the government's proposal, and I also call for the preparation and presentation of other rigorous forecasts permitted by the directive as soon as possible. Only a small part of these 20 actions have taken place. Mr President! Contrary to what has been claimed here, the country is not, unfortunately, being taken in the direction of Hungary, but to the Nordic line. We must ensure that we are not more attractive than other Nordic countries. In that sense, I am surprised at these speeches that Finland would be violating human rights here or doing something strange. We do the same things as other countries, though a little behind. We are now in a hurry to bring these tightening into force. The number of quota refugees has been invoked. There can be no way that this increase can be envisaged until this crisis has been brought to an end and the number of asylum seekers has been brought under control. At least not until then. These measures, which are now being taken, are a means of getting the crisis under control. Europe is broken and we must act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u211	Madam President! This legislative amendment under discussion is part of the government's very good immigration policy. Someone in this courtroom asked if this was the last tightening. I'll tell you what. I don't. This is only a small part of the government's immigration policy action programme. The Government intends to implement the programme as a whole. Mr Lehto has already pointed out what this current immigration through family reunification would cost without this change. Where does this money come from if people don't want to take the extra debt? My attention was also drawn to who is actually affected by this change. Most of the asylum seekers who have arrived here are young bachelors. I understand that this tightening does not apply to them, because I believe they do not have a family. Of course, those in need should be helped. That is what we Finns in Peru want to say, and that is what we say. Finland already assumes its own responsibility through the refugee quota. Of course, the quota could be increased if asylum tourism across our borders were to stop completely. Then the money would be enough to run a larger quota.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u212	Mr President! First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the chairman of the committee who moderately presented the committee's report and has been able to sit here for some time throughout this debate. Mr President! Mr Hakkarainen — who is not in the Chamber — Mr Hakkarainen, you are in close company. U.S. Republican presidential candidate Mr President! During the current parliamentary term, Parliament has received several separate government proposals for amendments to the Aliens Act. Fragmentation in the adoption of a bill in this refugee situation is somewhat understandable, but it would be better for the whole to be understood and the impact of legislation to be assessed if the foreign law were to be reformed more comprehensively, as larger entities at a time. We would see what the effects are, how they could be assessed, and their relationship with human rights and all the other complex problems would be easier to assess if it were a larger entity. Finland has also tightened up immigration policy during the previous parliamentary term, as has already been said here. In the debate at EU level, Finland has stressed the importance of a common EU immigration policy. It has been considered important not to encourage refugees, asylum seekers to move across the EU in search of the most favourable possible country. A comparison with the other Nordic countries has been central to Finland. This has been highlighted in a new situation where a small proportion of the refugee flows are from Sweden to Finland. But even if this is the case, Finland should still assess its own legislative changes from the perspective of the Finnish Constitution, Finland's international commitments from the basis of estimates and Finns' own values. Immigration policy cannot simply seek to make Finland appear as harsh as possible to asylum seekers. Legislation must also ensure that human rights and international agreements are respected. When it is the constitutional obligation of the public authorities to safeguard fundamental and human rights guaranteed by the Constitution, it is not quite logical that the restriction of these rights should be justified by the desire to reduce Finland's attractiveness as an asylum seeker. We drill holes in our own lifeboat so that it is not so attractive to those who depend on water. The opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs points out that the Constitution allows conditions and restrictions on entry for foreigners. Article 9 of the Constitution states that the right of a foreigner to come to Finland and reside in the country is governed by law. According to the committee, this provision is based on the general rule of international law in force, according to which foreigners are not generally entitled to settle in another country. It is good to remember this aspect of international law in this broad debate, and this is what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs says. In its opinion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also states that it is in principle possible to make a living condition conditional on a residence permit. However, the committee draws attention to the fact that the levels of income available are very high. These income limits are not set by law, but in practice we know and have been presented here. In the government's proposal, a significant extension of the number of persons who will be subject to income limits is a risk that the income limits will become an absolute obstacle to obtaining a residence permit for persons in the event of family reunification — for persons who are particularly vulnerable. This environment is changing because of this change in the law, and then these income limits, which are high, constitute a serious obstacle. This risk exists. That is why it is important that, in individual cases, there is a real and adequate margin of discretion – not just as enshrined in the law, but as it were – to ensure that nobody's situation becomes unreasonable from the point of view of human rights, fundamental rights. The objection made by the Social Democrats to the report by the Committee on Administrative Affairs is to reduce the income limits in place on the basis of just a reasonable basis, and I think that this objection is brilliant — and I would have liked it to have agreed with the objection — is that it introduces this criterion for this level of income without committing itself to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u215	Mr President! Mr Kantola raised many good things, important points of view. He stated, among other things, that the income limits are not in the law, and this is indeed the case that the income limits are not included in this bill. Thus, without changing the law, they can be checked according to what is wise and justified in practice. He also pointed out the importance of monitoring this legislation and, at the same time, can combine it and say that this is exactly what it is. As far as costs are concerned, we have an additional budget in the Committee on Budgets, and it says that the cost of this year's 40,000 asylum seekers is EUR 1 billion, that is, this year. It's a huge amount. It would allow us to deal with tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions of people in refugee camps, those in the greatest need. Now this billion goes to us to run red tape. That is why there is a place for reason here and the need for blackmail.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u216	Let's go to the list of speakers. Congressman Räsänen Joona.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u217	Mr President! I have said before in this Chamber that I think, however, that, in this difficult situation too, we all have the objective of making responsible policies in Finland also in these areas of immigration, and that, in my opinion, means that we will take into account, of course, our carrying capacity, but also that we will be able to assume our own responsibility in this international crisis and in helping those in need. And when these two combine both this carrying capacity and its desire to help those in need, then the pressure on the law is that it is reasonable. And I think it is perhaps regrettable, even in this evening's debate, that there has been no desire from the government parties to respond to the justified criticisms and also to the alternative proposals that have been made here. There is no desire to go through what, for example, these three points, which have been raised by the Social Democrats, could not make this proposal reasonable. Even if these three paragraphs make the bill more reasonable — both this issue of income limits and the status of children and this three-month deadline — this proposal would still be stricter than the current legislation. Yet this proposal would be stricter than the current legislation. And in this regard, it would also be hoped that the government parties would come out of the envelope of being forced to do all the bad things to these people and to make their lives more difficult, and there would be a rational debate about why, for example, in these three paragraphs this cannot be made reasonable. For example, is it absolutely necessary to put children in the position that this bill is actually putting on? This would be hoped that even representatives of the government parties would reflect objectively and might not always go down this same path.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u218	Mr President! Mr Niinistö previously made a reply after my speech and, of course, as chairman of the Greens, did not deny the fact that the Greens unanimously agreed with the rest of Parliament in 2010 to tighten the conditions for family reunification. — When you have so much public hypocrisy in this individual case of the Iraqi family, which is not in itself worth taking a stand on when you do not know all the details of it, then the work of the Finnish Immigration Service is based on the legislation that the Greens have adopted in the government in due course. And in this, the Finnish Immigration Service has acted in a perfectly proper and just manner and has not, fortunately, entered into the public debate, but has maintained that confidential matters cannot be brought to the public. But a lot of other people went out to go fishing for loose ends. Helsingin Sanomat criticises in his editorial that the income requirement does not apply to family members of Finnish and Nordic citizens. That's funny. They're criticizing it. After all, the government originally had the idea that this would also come to the citizens, but that was not enough for the media or the opposition at the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u221	I give two answers: Mr Biaudet and Mr Kantola. Then again, on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u222	I really think it is hypocrisy to say here that we want to prevent the exploitation of children by closing down family reunification. It is the safest way for children to connect them to their families. There is trafficking in human beings, and anyway when there are lonely children who seek asylum and who travel around the world, they are very risky to be exploited, so there is no way to pretend that it is for the safety of a child if you close family reunification.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u227	Mr President! Representative Elo referred to the opinion of the Constitutional Committee. The point to which he referred relates to this assessment of the situation of children who have arrived alone. It explains the government's proposal and states that regulation, which would not require this income limit when a minor child was a family-gatherer, can, in the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, be expected to take greater account of the best interests of the child in principle. Then it says this view of the government that this could involve the exploitation of children when they are sent to come alone, and then the Constitutional Committee, in its own position, states: "This argument must never, however, mean that the child's right is being undermined." This is the position of the Constitutional Committee in relation to this problem of children's arrival.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u228	And then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u229	Mr President! As Mr Zyskowicz said earlier in this Chamber debate today, it is also necessary to take into account in our legislation that our integration resources are inevitably limited. Now there is also an amending budget for Parliament, in which the cost of immigration is EUR 780 million higher than the normal year, so I would also ask the opposition to take account of the economic realities. With regard to residence permits and family reunification applications for applicants for international protection, Finland has found a line in the Nordic countries and is now being corrected in this proposal. Among other things, Norway, Sweden and Denmark have reduced the first residence permits for asylum beneficiaries to three years and those granted subsidiary protection to one year. It is also a practice in these countries that a residence permit extension has been withdrawn if, after the expiry of the first residence permit, there is no longer any reason for continuing international protection. On the other hand, Finland has continued to issue four-year residence permits. Mr President! In addition, Norway and Denmark, like Austria, Germany and Holland and many other EU countries, have introduced residence time and housing conditions for family reunification. In the Netherlands, Austria and Germany, the ability of spouses to speak the main language of the host country is also tested, even in a primitive way. These do not exist in this draft Finnish law, but we are moving towards a pan-European approach. Mr President! To this end: I also believe that the right solution is that requests for family reunification through the online service will not be possible in the future. It would probably have multiplied the number of applications and, in addition, congested the activities of many Finnish delegations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u230	Mr President! The representative, Mr Kantola, criticised earlier that the government's amendments to the Aliens Act come in pieces or in pieces. The situation is that we are likely to only have a break in the asylum crisis. Now we need to act and tighten up those laws, while the number of applicants for family reunification is still limited. In the future, they may be larger. For the same reason, humanitarian protection was removed, so that perhaps there could have been more of these cases in the future. This is part of a coherent asylum policy that the government is pursuing. But, Mr President, as far as these previous decisions on family reunification are concerned, you can throw rather loose comments here in the Chamber on this issue, you can criticise the government for the things that you have been deciding on, but fortunately the press must be punctual. Here I am faced with the correction of the People’s News to their own news of family reunification of the Left Alliance, whose representatives are now absent, on 9 June 2016, which states that, contrary to what the newspaper claimed earlier, this law on family reunification was adopted unanimously in 2010. So it is also apparent that the Left Alliance has been behind this blackmail, which affected, for example, the situation of this Iraqi family. Aren't you ashamed of your own decisions in the opposition? In 2010, at least you were still thinking about Finland's national interest. Now you are ready to throw that back in your own worthless politics and talk about half-truths and misdirects?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u231	Madam President! As we have heard several times today, the opposition, which criticises this government's proposal, has itself been creating the rules on which the present family reunification policy is being implemented, and in that sense we are now finishing the work that should have been completed, for example, during the last term of government. The reason why we want this family reunification to be tightened up is simply because Finland has much looser practices than other Nordic countries and Europe in general. It is important to maintain this European and Nordic line, because otherwise this attraction factor for Finland is far too great. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to illustrate what the attraction factor for Finland is, for example, for these people who come from Iraq seeking asylum. Last year we had over 20,000 Iraqi asylum seekers, and there is reason to wonder why Iraq comes from Iraq and not from the country where the biggest crisis exists. Some time ago, I myself saw the statistics that last year, when citizens in Iraq applied for passports from the authorities, an average of between 2000 and 3000 passports were applied for a day. At the beginning of this year, 12,000 passports were applied for per day. The biggest single reason for these applicants to apply for a passport was that they want to go to Finland. Do you understand, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that if 12,000 people a day apply for a passport only in Iraq and they want to come all the way to Finland, it does tell you that there is something here that is worth going on?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u232	Madam President! Yes, this skill of hip-throwing has been seen from the Finns of Peru. Numbers here and there are threats here and there. You're used to this kind of politics. But now we need some level of discussion. We have been talking for many hours, and now we really need a level of this debate. And I do wonder here when I have felt unreal from the beginning of my choice: we have been here for more than a year as new representatives of the people, and there are parliamentarians here who genuinely rejoice that children must not be with their parents, and incredible stories are being cultivated here, as it were. For example, Mr Kankaanniemi said that the Finns of Peru want to help the most vulnerable. Well, where's the deed? Where's the deed? I'll ask you three questions quickly. Are you prepared to increase the refugee quota? If so, please report immediately, because that is what we need right now. Second thing, development cuts. Development cooperation creates good governance. Are you, for example, canceling them? Well, of course not. And the third question: are you going to create humanitarian routes, for example, because people are fleeing countries where there is war and persecution? Are you ready for this? Of course you're not. So, in a way, it is a question of you not wanting Finland to help people. If we were in distress, we would like to be helped too. This lack of empathy is incomprehensible in this debate. And... This is, therefore, completely speechless, and this debate is absurd once again. Yeah, that's all I got. What else can I say?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u233	Madam President! A few more observations from this debate. Some wonders are, in particular, these views of the Finns, that Finland is, as it were, too good a country for an asylum seeker and that we have to create legislation, as it were, that we would look a little worse. This is somehow contrary to such natural, healthy thinking. What is wrong with looking for the promised land? What is wrong with you wanting to live in the best country in the world? I'm just asking. All I ask is, what is wrong with someone thinking somewhere that there is a Finland where it would be better to be and trying to be there? What's wrong with that? I wonder. Question two. I have considered this legislative proposal to be quite a project for the Finns. But now that Mr Zyskowicz has come into this debate, I have been given more insight into this and I understand that he is a very strict defender of this law. It is a little surprising to me that the National Coalition Party has so strongly entered this line of the Finns, and that is what I am a little surprised about. Somehow I have to review my thoughts about how I am experiencing and seeing a coalition policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u234	And then it would be Mr. Zyskowicz's turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u235	Madam President! To Mr Laukkanen, I would like to say at the outset in such a general way that when I am a representative of the Government Party, then I will defend the government's proposals. This is a general starting point. As far as this proposal is concerned, good speeches have been used throughout the evening, highlighting well-meaning considerations, human considerations, and that is, of course, correct. If you think of asylum seekers or, in fact, those who have been granted asylum or residence permits already in Finland, then I agree with the speakers that integration is beneficial if the family is involved. I agree with the speakers that the fact that a family is here or is here is likely to prevent marginalisation, if we talk about children and young people, for example, and is likely to prevent potential radicalisation, which would result from feeling that it is an outsider, marginalized and alone. On the other hand, if the number of asylum seekers who come to Finland exceeds many times what can be thought of as Finland's ability to integrate, then all these same risks of failure to integrate are at hand. Last year we had ten times as many asylum seekers as we had in recent years. We can handle a one-year shot like this. It has been reported here that 700 million in the extra budget will be spent on more money. We can deal with this, even though, as you well know, there is a shortage of municipal places, for example. But if Finland's family reunification policy or other factors affecting the attractiveness of the country as a destination for asylum seekers were to differ significantly and constantly from what is being done in other European countries and in other Nordic countries, and when we have talked about how the human mind behaves and works, it is probably quite clear that Finland would be the country of destination for more and more asylum seekers in a situation where more than one million asylum seekers come to Europe last year, perhaps hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers this year. If this situation is at hand that Finland clearly makes it easier to obtain a residence permit, it is clearly easier to connect its family to that country in Finland, and there is more attractive reception in Finland than in the rest of the world, then it is quite clear that the amounts will then be created in such a way that we will not have sufficient integration resources. It's the failure of integration that happens. All the negative consequences that will result will then occur. When all the rest of Europe, when all the other Nordic countries tighten up their own regulations in the current crisis situation, do you really think that Finland could do otherwise without any consequence? Or do you think that it will result in Finland not perhaps 30,000, as it did last year, but, for example, 50,000 or 100,000 a year as long as this crisis continues, and do you really think that Finnish society will succeed in integrating these people? And if not, will it not result in all the problems you have described as the next when integration fails? In other words, the aim of this proposal – or we have to do whatever word we want to use – is to follow the examples and examples of other Nordic countries and other European countries in Finland. When Mr Ville Niinistö said earlier that there is no evidence of the importance of such gravitational factors, that is not true. Of course, Finland’s attraction is already that we are the best country in the world, but we do have a lot of evidence that if our criteria for obtaining a residence permit and obtaining international protection are clearly more relaxed. If our family reunification regulations and practices are clearly more permissive than in other Nordic and European countries, then of course this greater number of asylum seekers will be directed here. When the number is so large and so exceptional, they were interviewed quite a lot in various media, and we also learned about the debate on what information was being transmitted in their social media world, and in these discussions and interviews, Mrs Biaudet — it can be checked by everyone — said that Finland has come because of the notion that Finland will be easier to obtain a residence permit based on international protection and that Finland will be easier to obtain after its family. What evidence other than that of living life do you need of the importance of these gravitational factors? In my opinion, this practical experience is better proof than the academic studies to which you would like to refer in this connection, and I think that these academic studies will come from last year's phenomenon. Well, then these kids. It hurts my heart too when I listen to these speeches about the fact that there are children here alone who can't get their family here. But do you not worry that families are being broken up, families are being broken up, children are not allowed to live with their mothers, children are not allowed to live with their fathers, children are not allowed to live with their siblings, and the fact that hundreds of children have come to Finland alone as minors to seek asylum? How have these children come alone? What do you think, Congressman Kari? Have they fled their families, raised the funds themselves, and paid human smugglers for a life - threatening journey? Do you think this has happened? Do you think, Mr Biaudet, that this has happened, that this is the main rule? Or would it have happened that the families and families of these children themselves have decided to separate this child from their families, to send this child on a life-threatening, literally life-threatening, journey across the Middle East or across Africa, across Europe? Surely this has been the case, Mr Biaudet, the family has sent, the family and the family have raised the funds? I guess we know this from hundreds of stories. I actually know this through my own acquaintances. If we think about this situation, it is a question of whether you do not want to admit whether Finnish legislation in this respect is such that we encourage and encourage families to do so, whether the Finnish system is such that when you have a child in Finland after life-threatening stages, the family actually gets behind you. If that is our system, and when we know how humanly man works, do you really not sincerely believe that it encourages more and more families to do this? If you get the baby safely, the whole family will catch up. Do you honestly not believe that when children want to live with their parents and parents want to live with their children, such a system that always brings a family to Finland after a child encourages them to do so?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u238	Mr President! It seems fun that when the Finns did not go to the government in 2011, so many of them, for example, in the demos, were that how now is responsibility. Now that after the other parliamentary elections, the successful elections, you go to the government and use the power that has been so strongly called for, why do you not exercise power when it is given, then you say it is strange when you exercise that power. It is true, Mr Social Democrats, that the Finns are an independent party, which exercises power just as we ourselves want and which voters give us the mandate. That is not the question of the Social Democrats or any other windbox. It is also surprising that we have spent more than EUR 1 billion on asylum policy in the last and this year. This seems to go through the opposition like water from the back of a goose, but when there are individual cuts of perhaps millions at its lowest, then there will be an awful lot of hello. It does surprise me that you do not have any clout on how much money can be spent on immigration or asylum policy, especially when you think, as I said earlier, that, according to the survey, more than 70 per cent of Finns want to tighten up the asylum policy line. I'd rather listen to them than to the bloating opposition here. And the Greens and the others, still, how many asylum seekers do you want? As Mr Zyskowicz has also pointed out here, how many do you want? Tell me. We have the government's answer to that, how many we expect, we suspect that they will come here, but you have no number. You just always want more than that moment happens to come. The government has a unified line. This policy is not just the politics of the Finns. This is a united policy of the government, which Mr Zyskowicz has the merit of defending. What's the demo line? Is that Antti Rinte's line? Is that Sanna Marin's line? I don't know, let's get out of here like Jokisen's lunch. Demari don't seem to have a line. It swings a little, depending on where the wind takes it. And family reunification: it is claimed that we do not support it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u239	Mr President! First of all, to these speeches, which were used here: Mr Elo too, for the record, I tried to go through this time in detail in my previous speech. I believe that everyone in this Chamber at this stage, when we know what the international situation is and we are facing an acute crisis, will certainly want to make a responsible policy. I have not heard from anyone here that there is a desire to make irresponsible decisions. And I think that responsibility will then be built on our taking into account our ability to carry what the previous speakers were concerned about. In any case, public resources will have to be used for this. But that responsibility is also a reasonable one then, that is, when we want to help the most distressed people of all, then we must help them. And when these two combine, then it becomes that when you look at the bill in question, for example, I understand perfectly well that, in this situation, Finland's asylum policy and family reunification policy will be tightened up. I have not questioned it on any subject. What I have questioned is whether, first of all, all these tightening ups make sense and whether they go too far. I think I've been here a lot more than once. And now that the question has been asked whether the opposition does not remember what has been decided by itself, I have never heard anyone here this evening suggest that the amendment of the law that entered into force in 2010 should be dismantled. Nor have I heard anyone here suggesting that the amendment of the law, the tightening that came into force in 2012, should be removed, and I do not think that anyone will. In this regard, I think it is a little wrong to say here that there would be a situation here, that there would be a group of people who want to make the current legislation terribly loose, and then there would be a group that wants to tighten up. As I understand it, the front lines go quite well to the fact that there are representatives here who want to tighten up our legislation clearly, then there are representatives here who want to tighten up our legislation to a certain extent, and then there will probably also be representatives who do not want to tighten up the existing legislation at all. But I have not yet met a single person in this Chamber who would have said that the current legislation should be relaxed. And if I return to these arguments, which have been heard here, they are missing at least the total number of asylum seekers who have come to Finland last year, but it is honest to say in the same context that all of them — from just over 11,000 of whom it has been estimated that they will receive a positive residence permit — will not even apply for family reunification. For one thing, not all of them have families, and even if they apply for family reunification, they will never have that family in Finland. However, on the same occasion that these threats are being painted here, I think it would be honest to say the realism behind these figures. In the same context, it must be noted that reference has now been made to this status of children or to the status of women, that we cannot now accept that family reunification here is somehow easy, that women and children, for example, should be able to come to safety. The fact is that, in Europe, where the situation has already begun, when the message is that family reunification practices are being tightened up, women and children are moving. Then they come as asylum seekers, in any case. At least then I think that I have to ask myself whether it would make more sense for us to give them a safe passage here, or whether we want to force them on the dangerous journey to come and seek asylum.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u242	Mr President! Before, Congressman Laukkanen raised the question of whether it was wrong to seek a better life for himself. It began to come to this fundamental question, namely, that it is not wrong to seek a better life for yourself as long as it can be paid for itself. Now the question is whether we want to pay for its better life for the rest of the world, and that is something we cannot afford. The cost side of this phenomenon of immigration has been mentioned here in the past. I remember when the opposition stormed the government for a reduction in car tax. That 200 million was spent several times until it was found that the tax actually produces more than before it was calculated. The government was barred from medical fees, from university cuts, which were actually not even surgery, but only the folding of the rise. A number of other measures have been taken, forced to save money. They've all been barked up by the opposition. Now, as a whole, these things I mentioned do not go anywhere near the amount of money that has to be put even in the search for asylum last year. The money simply runs out. The amount that went into it was in line with the original competitiveness pact, the competitiveness pact, which was also the result of demonstrations. Where are the demonstrations now, when such money is being used exclusively to pay for the cost of last year's asylum application?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u243	However, let us continue on the list of speakers, because everyone can book more there. Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u244	Madam President! I had to come up here to talk about getting longer speaking time to be able to correct these wrong ideas and incorrect comments a little bit. First of all, Mr Laukkanen, I understand that you have this aspect of love for your fellowman, as I do, but I do not understand how we see this issue in such a different way. I fully agree that there is nothing wrong with someone seeking asylum in Finland, the best country in the world, and here they are. That's perfectly acceptable. Anyone who can get a fingernail can try to come to Finland. It's a natural situation. We would also do the same if we were to live somewhere in the middle of a crisis or even in the vicinity of a crisis, we were to seek a better country. We'd do it ourselves. There's nothing wrong with that. The difference is how a representative elected in Finland will react to the kind of legislation we make about how many of those people can come here and on what basis. It has now become very clear that these arrivals are not necessarily those who flee the war and those who have been persecuted, but those who seek a better standard of living, so-called standard of living, those who seek a standard of living. Mr President! The billion cost of this immigration already in the year is so much money that we cannot close our eyes to that fact. As an example, I must say that today I was called by a 91-year-old veteran of war, Alpo. I don't mention his last name, but he's called before. He asked me this: why does an asylum seeker receive more money and support than a veteran who has fought and worked for Finland and Finland's independence all his life? He said that he has been on the front for three years, after the war for three years also cleared mines and had been working for 65 years. Now that he's in trouble, he can't even get help from a store without a terrible fight, you have to wait two weeks. For the past ten years, he's been eating microwave-heated food at home. He can't get home cleaning help because he says he's not in that bad shape. He doesn't even get cancer treatment yet because he says there's no pain, even though he's been diagnosed with lung cancer. We have to wait for the pain to begin and talk about months of waiting to see a doctor. He doesn't get an oxygen device when he's having trouble breathing because of the lung cancer that's started because he says it's not that bad. He asked me sincerely today, when by chance he called to say why he did not get help, but all of these who come here to Finland are treated like kings here. This is quite a legitimate question if a congressman like this is presented. So the question now is that we do not have enough money to deal with our own citizens as we would like, and yet we are talking about the fact that there can be no restrictions on the number of people arriving in Finland. Mr President! As far as Mr Räsänen's statement is concerned, we should create a safe passage for those who come here, that they will not be in distress or danger, or, for example, that these children should be sent to those ships with these immigrants. This sounds a bit like what the Greens have already put forward in other contexts, that we should open up the air link from there directly to here and take those people here to Finland and thus avoid those dangerous voyages. But in this moment we have to ask ourselves, in what way do we choose those who deserve that lottery ticket to come to Finland? And how many of those lottery tickets would we give? Are there a thousand, ten thousand, one hundred thousand, or is there a million, because there are certainly 200 million people in Africa who would like to enter Europe? Last year there were 1.2 million immigrants who were registered and known that they did, not to mention those who do not know how much they came in. They're still coming. Although the current flow has stopped from Turkey to Greece, Libya is becoming so many people that no one can know. If they all start moving, how they will be received here in Europe, how they will resolve it. In Libya, more than a million people have packed up to wait there for them to cross the sea here in Europe, in the promised land. It's nothing bad, of course they can come to the promised land, but how we react to it is different. As a result, the government is making excellent legislative initiatives or government proposals that if families are to be united here, they must also be able to support family members. Is it wrong to demand that they support their family members if we demand that this 91-year-old veteran buy his own medicine, that he himself take care of the cleaning help, that he buys himself the bracelet that costs 40 euros a month and so on, and pension is not enough? He's going to have to save food. I hear 50 has to be enough for a week's food. This genuinely raises the question that if we were to deal with these domestic affairs first, then we would share the manna if we had to share it. Now we already share it for billions of dollars a year, and I think it is quite a lot. With regard to the end of the influx of migrants through the Dublin Agreement, we cannot be confident that this national solution at European level will ever come about, at least not in the time necessary for the current crisis. Even now, about 100 people a week come across Finnish borders and apply for asylum. It didn't end at all. They come through Denmark, through Germany, through Sweden. They come along different routes through safe countries and come here because they have heard, among other things in Iraq, that there is manna and everyone gets and does not have to do anything at all. Is it not already unreasonable to say that we will help asylum seekers if they come through a safe country? Yes, we must do so much national politics if we are representatives of the Finnish Parliament, that we understand where our limits are. This is, of course, a matter of principle. If it doesn't sink into everyone, there's nothing you can do about it. With regard to this argument that these embassies are beginning to be in crisis as a result of these asylum applications or family reunifications, that means that an application must be submitted within three months, and I think that is six months, even if it is said at the Ankara embassy. It is true that the pressure is growing on many sides of the world in embassies, but even here, I think Finland is a little too pedantic when it wants to comply with the six-month processing period and has added EUR 6.8 million to the budget for the embassies, precisely in order to keep the process of family reunification on schedule. However, we make quite a lot of these concessions. We continue to have more and more costs of complying with international agreements, but at some point we have to say that it is no longer enough. If there is no solution at European level, then we must make a national decision and close the borders and say that no one will come through the security station to Finland again unless there is a payer for it. In that sense, the European Union would also have to take this responsibility in order to share these costs with others, but not just with Finland. Mr President! I would have liked to mention that we must in some way resolve the dilemma of how we can integrate these people who remain here in Finland. Personally, I do not necessarily believe that we will succeed better than Sweden or many other European countries have succeeded. This will be a real challenge. Just as Mr Zyskowicz said, we must have an idea of how we can get and how many people from a foreign culture to integrate into Western liberal society. I do not believe that if we close our eyes and hope for the best, then it is in the interests of this people. It is in the interests of this people that we make a wise policy, that we receive as many people here as we can and, above all, those real people in distress.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u245	Madam President! When we talk about children here, I think we are talking a little like two different things. Mrs Zyskowicz's speech opened this matter quite well in my opinion, that is to say some of the children already in Finland, and we can use reflection on these children now and in the future. But then the reverse side of the card: if the attraction factors are not removed from Finland, children, especially children, will be exposed to the mercy of human smugglers when families send children as an anchor through a very dangerous journey towards asylum and a better life and standard of living for families. I would have answered Mr Yanar. He was already able to leave the Chamber, but I would like to say what I said in my previous speech about this increase in the refugee quota: of course, quotas could be increased if asylum tourism across borders were to be completely overturned. Then we'd be better off with the money.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u246	Mr President! I personally see that during this evening quite a few honest speeches have been made here about what is the way of thinking, what is the image of the human being and what is the concept of human rights and equality behind this proposal. I would particularly like to thank the representatives of the People's Republic of Finland for their honest speech and for the speeches you have made. You have, quite frankly, told us what the basis for this proposal is. But it is very difficult to digest it when all experts — UNICEF, Amnesty, Central League for Child Welfare, Red Cross, Finnish Association for Mental Health, Church Foreign Aid, Save the Children and UN Refugee Organisations, all those who feel this phenomenon, children's rights, the status of refugee children, the conditions of asylum seekers — say that this works against the interests of children, that it is not very honest to try to paint this proposal to improve children's rights or to promote the interests of children. That's not what this is. All experts say that children are not sent here, so this phenomenon has not been around for years, and now it is used as a stick horse to further the weakening of such things. But I would like to thank you for the many very honest speeches that have been made here and have in fact made it very clear that we have a very different concept of human rights, and that is the basis for this disagreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u247	Mr President! In my absence, I understand that there was at least a debate on how Finnish legislation has developed earlier on these issues. It is worth saying out loud that we have had such a very negative climate for refugees in this country for a long time. These past legislative changes have been problematic, and what was done in 2010 was also the kind of proposal that the Greens in the government fought for in the form it was, and in that respect we lost. There were some blackmails which we have now called for to be resolved, and it has proved that they have already been quite significant restrictive factors. The most significant actual effects of these changes since the entry into force of 2010 and 2012 have therefore been that the family reunificationist in Finland can no longer put the process in motion and has been the biggest single issue that has made integration of immigrants and asylum recipients more difficult. This is, in fact, already a major problem in the current situation, that these queues have been so long in Ankara and other embassies and that process is so difficult that it is in practice very difficult to bring family reunification together for those who should have their right under our law. In this bill, such very challenging situations are made much more difficult for the power x. That is, the exception that was previously made to the law, that it is possible to apply for family reunification if the family has established in Finland, only within the income limits, is an example of what will in future apply to all those who have received asylum if this change of law comes into force. This situation is already difficult for these families, and when they set up a family, they themselves have known that such a risk exists, but we are now in the process of blackmailing the law into such a form that not all these families, which are scattered in the feet of war and crisis, can be linked to secondary protection at the time of the entry into force of the income limits or asylum seekers. And the income limits are not intended for these people originally. This is very strict legislation. This is about those who have been given asylum. Within that three-month time limit, these queues will make it impossible for people to apply for that asylum without income limits. Mr President! I find it a very repugnant way of thinking that the fact that we have been blackmailed before would deprive us of the right to speak out against this latest change. It's about how stubbornly this show is being pushed through. I hope that the problems of the current law will first be resolved and then assessed at all that we actually need to facilitate family reunification, because that is the legal way to enter the country. Then we come to what Mr Zyskowicz and several other representatives have said about these attraction factors. I would like to emphasise that these expressions, which have also been used here in the Chamber, are quite disdainful for these people. In fact, when examining these situations and when more than one representative has spoken of anchor children or attraction factors, there are real grounds and reasons for minors to escape personal persecution, and it has been in the interests of the family that the underage person may have had to leave because of circumstances such that he or she has come alone or is led to be alone during the escape. What I myself know about these situations is that quite often they are the boys between the ages of 16 and 17 who are forced to flee a situation in which they would be forced into a party’s army or some paramilitary force, and if they do not agree to it, they may be threatened with death there, where they are in a situation of personal persecution. When these cases have been investigated, as Mr Kari said, all these organisations that work with these people say that such an anchor child term is incorrect and in fact there have been no such cases in Finland for years at least. Therefore, this whole bill is based on a human image and a world view that aims to limit human rights in a way that seeks to prevent entry to Finland even when it is humanly correct — when people have a legitimate reason to unite their families and when it would contribute to their own integration. And this is what is very difficult to understand: why have the representatives of the centre and of the coalition gone along with this very negative interpretation of human rights? Finally, Mr President, when Mr Niikko said that Finland must demand solidarity from the EU in this situation, we agree. In fact, at the moment, Finland is the one who has opposed the creation of a joint, joint and permanent procedure for sharing the burden within the EU, so that, in the event of a rapid increase in the number of asylum seekers at different times... Now we only have these temporary quotas and always emergency solutions with which the EU seeks to resolve these situations. Permanent quotas for directing asylum seekers to different countries in the process and ensuring that the processing process is efficient and that different countries participate would also be in Finland's interest. Solidarity is also in Finland’s interest. We too are at one EU border, and it is quite possible that we too will have this situation. It is also in our interest for all countries to shoulder their responsibilities together and to establish joint practices of solidarity. It is not in Finland's interest that everyone should seek to minimise the protection of human rights, but that everyone should work together towards common solidarity practices, and that it should ensure that human rights in the EU are safeguarded, because ultimately it is also in the interests of everyone living in this country, that we have a positive interpretation of how to live and live in this country. I fully believe that the economy is best off in a society where society encourages people to unite their families on the basis of hard work and enterprise and where people have the opportunity to dream that the future will be better for them personally. These rights are now being taken away from people: the idea that they can have peace, security and a normal everyday life in which they can live together with their own families is taken away. These various restrictions together — practical restrictions and then these restrictions on income and legislation together — constitute such a huge, huge wall over which it is inhumane for these people to seek to ensure that their rights are safeguarded. All the key organisations have said that this proposal puts women and children in an increasingly vulnerable position in crisis and increasingly dangerous paths towards family reunification. In practice, then, they will come for security along these dangerous routes in the Mediterranean. This thinking, therefore, that children should be deprived of the right to family reunification, that it could be in the best interests of the child, is simply not true, not only that it is also inhumane.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u248	Madam President! When Mr Zyskowicz said here that he is a representative of the government, of course, in favour of the government's proposals, I understand that in a certain way, but not all of the government's proposals are good because they are government proposals. I also understand that Mr Zyskowicz is such a good speaker that if the dead could be raised by talking, he could do so, but not the fact that this proposal is very unfair, then change that it is a government proposal. Mr Niiko: I and Mr Niiko obviously have a very different view of neighbor love and, in particular, of its practical application, and here we do not share common issues. A total of 58,000 children are born in Finland each year. I haven't seen any crisis reports in any newspaper that 58,000 new people are coming in. They can fit in and go to schools well, and neither do they, none of them, produce a single euro at birth or any kind of service. They'll be born here under the circumstances that have been created here for them. I'm not saying we have to take a million refugees here. All I am saying is that 500 million people live in Europe, and if 5 million refugees come here, that should not be a problem for us, but it seems to be a problem for us at heart and mind level. This debate is good, it has told a lot about us, as Mr Kari said here. An important debate, and I am sure this will continue, in a few days we will adopt this proposal and then we will see where it will lead in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u249	Mr President! First of all, I find it a little strange that some people have a certain moral upper level from which they can say to those at the lower level that we know better. I believe that, in this Chamber, everyone who has been elected by the people will be able to speak with the mouth of what the mandate is and to bring out the vision, and that is the great side of this Chamber and the basis and justification of democracy. As far as this is concerned, Mr Laukkanen's metaphor is concerned, and I admit that this is the most interesting symbol I have heard so far, that this is how we compare asylum seekers who come here with children born in Finland. Well, that's interesting. We'll remember this. It has also been pointed out here that various organisations should be consulted on this issue, and indeed expert opinions have been heard, and expert opinions have been heard in the Committee on Administration and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. One that has been consulted is the Finnish Immigration Service. It was pointed out that there were no anchor children. Well, in their expert opinion this aspect was also raised, although not by this term, but in any case the point was raised that it is a real problem which they too have noticed. Recalling this study, which I have referred to here, Helsingin Sanomat 21.10.2015, more than 70 per cent of Finns want the government to tighten up asylum policy. Yes, I listen primarily to the Finnish people, who in this kind of research have thus responded, like various organizations and their indirect link, which happens to come. I am still surprised that there is talk here that, in a way, the government is taking too few asylum seekers, that this is too tight, but let us not say how much you, the Greens, the Social Democrats, the RKP, the Christian Democrats, really want asylum seekers. At least the Swedes are honest and say that we would love to take 160,000, but I have not heard one green say that the Greens would love to take 150,000. You do not say, because you know that the people do not support such a line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u250	Madam President! Congressman Kari said, literally, that children are not sent here. That is not true. It is certainly true that there are young people who, as Mr Ville Niinistö has told us, are being rescued from being recruited into a military force to fight one another. But the argument that children are not sent here is not true. We all know that families and families are raising funds and sending children to Europe. Of these motives: I have argued and I continue to claim that if our system in Finland were such that when you send your children away from the family, you would break up his family — what has been said here about this bill — and send him on a life-threatening journey to Europe, then surely the rest of the family will follow, then this would only encourage the process of sending more and more children in the hope that the family will follow. This doesn't say anything negative about the human image. I think it's about how the human mind works. Mr Niinistö was obviously not present when I told him that this three-month time limit could not lead to a loss of justice if, within this period, due to the proceedings of the authorities, this application could not be lodged. That is why I said that this does not apply, contrary to what is supposed to be the general debate, to those who have been given asylum, that is to say, to the refugees themselves. Finally, Mr Niinistö, you can oppose a motion that you have supported in your time and you can regret it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u251	Mr President! For years, it has been the case that the coalition in the governments has been driving these blackmails. The Minister for the Interior, Mrs Holmlund, was very well known during the parliamentary term to speak loudly for them and the Greens opposed them. Then we had to find a compromise somewhere where the coalition did not get all the blackmails through and we had to make some concessions that we did not consider good, but they then rejected such things as being in the country, living time, time limits, after which we could only apply for these family reunification permits, for example. In other words, it is worth remembering that in what has been said in public, we have criticised this future law and called for the problems of the present situation to be resolved, because that is why we in Katainen's government have not agreed to any new blackmails either, because we were convinced that there are problems with the rule of law and with regard to human rights, and we have been able to prevent further tensions, but there has been no widespread investigation on these issues. If that's what the Home Office did during our reign,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u252	Mr President! Mr Niinistö must now be mentioned that I did not mean that we could go along with the permanent burden-sharing agreement, that we have now accepted this voluntary burden-sharing element, and that is enough for us, because we have now shown that we want to shoulder that responsibility together, but that we have also failed because we have not been able to influence who comes here. It would be essential for people to come here who are able to adapt to this society, because we still have a very different society than many other European countries, for example. And the government has had a wish — it is no secret — that, for example, there would have been girdles here or persecuted Christians who would certainly fit in much better than some other groups. Then, if this Dublin agreement does not work and people come through the borders and are still being directed forward by the state or the authorities to Finland, then the payer would have to be someone other than the Finnish State for those costs, because some other countries have not complied with those agreements. This Finland cannot be the end of the promised country, where the doors are open as long as the doors are open. That is what it is, Mr Laukkanen, that we must have a rat in this country, not come here, but like a hollipop, marched in from that border. That some order and justice and fairness in this is what we're looking for. We are not in any way unloving decision-makers when we want to make some sort of limit to this level of cost and the number of people, the number of people to come. Then we must also remember that if we manage to create such a fair system, we will also prevent people from being put in the hands of smugglers over there drowning along the Mediterranean Sea and that traffic is increasing — I said earlier how much is coming from there. Today we just heard on the Border Guard's security ship that in one of these fishing vessels, [First Vice-PresidentMauri Pekkarinen : I would like to ask you to join us in the can. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u255	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Niko that it is good to have these rules of the game, that is all. Now that Sweden has been compared many times, I am reading here what has benefited from immigration in Sweden. According to a survey completed last summer, immigration has produced SEK 900 billion for Sweden, or EUR 90 billion since 1950, and has brought an increase of 22% in GDP. Erkki Liikanen, President of the Bank of Finland, estimates that the large numbers of refugees coming to Finland in the long term will be useful. According to Liikanen, the foreign labour force restores the Finnish population structure and helps finance the welfare state. According to studies carried out in Sweden in the long term, the integration of immigrants is a worthwhile investment for Sweden. It will increase competitiveness, increase foreign trade, strengthen entrepreneurship and make the labour market more flexible. In addition, immigration rejuvenates the age structure of the country’s population. That's what's going on in Sweden. It hasn't been too bad.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u256	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, LaVM 8/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u257	Mr President! Now we are dealing with the government's proposal for a court law and related legislation. The committee has justified its report as follows: The Government proposes the adoption of a new court law. The proposed law contains general provisions on courts and judges and is now composed of provisions in various laws and regulations governing courts and judges. At the same time, regulation at the level of the regulation will be abolished. The Committee on Legal Affairs believes that the reform will make regulation clearer. It also strengthens the role and independence of courts, which is of fundamental importance. The proposal is largely concerned with the transposition of the existing provisions into the new law of the Court of Justice, but also contains some proposals of principle and practical relevance. The change to the current situation means, in particular, the development of the training of judges, which I am now focusing on, because it has been being prepared for years. Currently, there is no actual judicial training or qualification for the duties of a judge in Finland. Traditionally, the duties of a judge have been qualified by a court of first instance and then by acting as rapporteur in court or administrative court. The qualification of a judge is thus done at the heart of the process of learning at work. The State Civil Service Act lays down the general obligations of an official. The judge is not specifically obliged to attend training during his career. And here it turned out that there are judges who have never participated in education in the course of decades, unfortunately. The training is now organised by the courts themselves, by external training organisations and by the Ministry of Justice’s training unit. Our system is different from many other countries. In several European countries, participation in continuing training is compulsory for judges. It has not been in Finland so far. The Government's proposal contains a number of proposals on the training of judges. Firstly, it is proposed that the training of judges should be developed in a more structured and targeted manner. This is to be achieved through an integrated training programme covering all stages of the judicial career, from judicial training to the training of judges in supplementary and managerial training. According to the proposal, the judges are entitled and obliged to take part in education and training. Secondly, it is proposed that the Court of Appeal, the Administrative Court, the Market Court, the Labour Court and the Insurance Law may hold posts in the Armsor for a limited period of time to which, as a general rule, they are appointed for a maximum period of three years. This is a training post, as the aggressor participates in the training programme designed for him and carries out the final or final work. However, acting as an assortment and carrying out a training programme is not a prerequisite for the appointment of a judge. Thirdly, it is proposed to increase the planning of training in court practice. It is also proposed that traineeships be declared for application only once a year and that the application and selection procedure be delegated to the judicial training commission to be set up. Fourthly, it is proposed to set up a new body, a judicial training board, to be responsible for planning and coordinating the training of judges. It is also the task of the Board to carry out the duties relating to judicial training and the appointment of judges and to continue the training of judges. The committee's expert consultation has supported the proposals, but they have also been strongly criticised, for example, as regards the Assembliesor's office, the Training Board and the cost of reform. Mr President! In general, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights considers that, on the basis of the report it has received, it is necessary to improve the training of judges. There was consensus on this. According to the report, Finland is one of four European countries without compulsory judicial training, i.e., on the one hand, we do not have compulsory training before the appointment of a judge or during the career of a judge. The training of judges currently organised is also fragmented and leaves room for development in terms of quality and quantity in international comparisons. The committee's expert hearing has also highlighted the view that the training of judges should be the task of an independent judicial office and that the reform should only be carried out once such an agency has been established in Finland. The Committee on Legal Affairs also considers that if there was an independent judicial office in Finland, it would be natural for such an office to take care of the training system for judges. Since the adoption of the Government's proposal, the situation has changed in that the Ministry of Justice has set up a commission to prepare for the establishment of a judicial office. The committee is due to finalise its proposal by the end of February. The aim is to submit a Government proposal to the Parliament in autumn 2017 so that the Agency can be established during this parliamentary term. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights welcomes the establishment of a committee, which in recent years has considered it important to clarify the possibilities of establishing a judicial office and to speed up the investigation of the matter. However, the committee does not consider it justified or necessary to postpone the development of the training of judges pending the completion of the work of the Commission and the possible establishment of an agency, as there is a clear need for the development of judicial training for the reasons set out above. The committee also draws attention to the fact that over the last 20 years, i.e. 20 years, efforts have been made to develop the training of judges in a number of different configurations, but no proposal has led to concrete measures. Instead, we now have a proposal which is moderate and which has tried to take account of our national needs and traditions. The committee considers the proposed system to be feasible and considers it important that the work of the above-mentioned commission should examine the possibility of organising it as part of the judicial office. Mr President! Then a few words about the training posts in the weapons room. The armaments system proposed by the Government is intended to replace the use of the rapporteur in the formation of the decision. This will remove the disadvantages associated with the use of the rapporteur system, as the Assembliesor is appointed for a period of three years and is a judge's post. The Legal Affairs Committee welcomes this change. The proposal does not limit the competence of the Assembler on the basis of the scope or quality of the matters to be resolved. The exception to this is, however, that the absort can't deal with the criminal cases of judges. According to the proposal, the generality of the authority of the Asesor is based on the fact that it is a matter of being a judge. However, the post of Asesor is a training post, which essentially involves participation in training. Efforts have been made to increase the transparency of the judge's career. Despite this, the judge’s career is in practice very closed, since according to a report received, between 90% and 95% of appointments have been directed at those already employed in the judiciary in recent years. In the view of the Legal Committee, the provisions on the proposed armaments system allow any lawyer with sufficient qualifications and experience to apply for an Assor training post. Furthermore, the proposal does not imply the closure of the judge's career from outside the judiciary, since the performance of the training programmes of the Asesor is not a prerequisite for the appointment of the judge. The competence to serve as a judge can therefore continue to be acquired by acting in another capacity-giving legal capacity. And then, Mr President, very briefly from the judicial training board. According to the proposal, the Judiciary Training Board is responsible for the planning and coordination of the training and for the tasks related to the judicial training and the duties of the judges to be set up. The Board would be an independent body in the administrative branch of the Ministry of Justice. According to the proposal, the aim is for the judicial training board to be able to support the development of the expertise of a court lawyer in a more structured and high-quality manner, taking into account the individual needs and competence of each of them. The Legal Committee notes that the duties of the Judicial Training Board are quite diverse and wide-ranging. And then there's the short cost. The Government's proposal for the development of the education system estimates an additional cost of EUR 700000. However, the committee's expert consultation on the costs of the reform has also expressed a different view, pointing out that the costs would be many times higher than the ones presented. The Legal Committee has asked both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance for more information on the costs of developing education. The additional report concludes with the cost values set out in the Government proposal. An accurate assessment of the costs of developing the training of judges is a challenge. However, it is problematic that the estimates submitted to the committee differ significantly from one another. The committee therefore considers it necessary to monitor these cost implications and their development. A statement has also been made on this. And finally, the chief judges and their temporary posts. Currently, permanent or temporary appointments to the post of chief judges can be made. It is now proposed that the Chief Judges be appointed for a period of seven years, with the exception of the Presidents of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court. It is estimated that the term of office of the chief judge will contribute to ensuring that the court can act as efficiently and as effectively as possible. The background is also that the authority of the chief judge has increased over the last few years. At the same time, however, the independence of the chief judge must be safeguarded. This has been ensured in the proposal by ensuring that the Chief Judge is inseparable for the duration of his term of office, as have other judges. Mr President! These are the main points of the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. This is a rather broad proposal, but the Committee on Legal Affairs nevertheless considers it necessary and appropriate and supports the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the proposal. This decision and the report were not unanimous, but we will probably hear more about this soon.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u258	Mr President! This bill and the whole is certainly one of the biggest reforms that have been made during this parliamentary term and is now coming to a conclusion. In a certain way, it is a bit of a shame that it is now being discussed here in the middle of the night, when it is such a major reform. First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, who was very patient in guiding this process. This was not an easy package at all. It took a lot of time and insight, discussion and consultation of experts to read and understand it already. I would also like to thank the committee advisers, who listened very carefully to the debate and, in my opinion, were able to make a good contribution to this report, including all the key changes that were left behind. I myself wished we had a unanimous report because this was such a big package. More than four years have been preparing for this and now a long time in committee. It would have been wonderful and valuable if a unanimous report had been produced, but this does not always happen, and it may also be that it is there that protests will leave a mark of the need for change that remains. I don't think that's bad either. This law, as the President-in-Office put it well, is indeed necessary because it brings together this fragmented legislation from the courts and its tasks and its administration into a single law, as it were. In committee, the funding of this reform, on which there was a wide range of views, led to greater reflections, and we had to return to it many times, which is then the real line. This is why it became clear that it will be monitored carefully and that the financial contribution will be explained. It was not a simple matter, either, in terms of the regulations relating to the use of weapons and to the training of judges. As the President-in-Office said, for 20 years we have been trying to get it, and it was not easy for us either. And because it became clear that the Minister of Justice has already set up a working group with the aim of establishing a judicial office, it was said that it is also good to put in this report the fact that, if it were to be established, it would be a great wisdom to put this judicial training into it, as it were, an independent body. There would be a lot to say about this reform, a lot to say, but it is extensive and it can be read for itself. Perhaps this is what I wanted to draw attention to myself. The Christian Democrats did not take a different view of this because we felt that this was an important reform and that the main criticisms were, however, well written into the report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u259	Mr President! I thought I would try very briefly here, because the chairman of the committee and also my colleagues actually gave a very good presentation of this government proposal and our committee's report to the extent that they raised debate and challenges. And I think it is perhaps quite symbolic that, in the work of the Legal Affairs Committee, in fact, very many times we are able to find together those challenges and those problems, and there may not be much disagreement about them — certainly there are such places. But in this situation, of course, questions were raised about this judicial training and not just within our committee, but above all in judges about all stages of justice. Of course, this is a group that is not just a lobbyist, but I do think it is a very big question about the functioning of this reform that needs to be taken seriously and listened seriously. I also believe that their ability to influence the possible creation of an independent judicial office is a matter of great importance. And once the government has promised that such a proposal would be brought to Parliament in the autumn of 2017, I and the signatories of our divided opinion believe that it is a question of such a major reform and such an important reform that it is worth waiting for that reform and then preparing for it, with the help of the judges, of course, that judicial training not to exclude, for example, recruitment for a jury career from this training but to be as open as possible, that also, for example, qualified lawyers
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u262	Mr President! There's a lot of good in this show. The aim is codification, and it is now good that these provisions can be found in the same opus and the level of regulation. I also welcome the fact that these Laman posts will be temporary. I think it is important to maintain motivation in the management culture, and probably this will contribute to it. Now that they have been long-term, it has also sometimes been seen that we have been a brake on development, and then that we have not been as ready to react to reforms as we would have had to. But what I am criticising is then this section on judicial training here. Yes, the expert hearings showed that it is not realistic for economic reasons. This armaments system increases the number of fixed-term judges, violates the principle of equal pay and closes the career of a judge to applicants outside the judiciary. They would be paid lower salaries than other judges, even if they were in practice doing the same work. So, in those hearings, it became clear that this is basically a system of cheap judges. This would mean that a lower - paying education office would not attract experienced lawyers, and the procedure for selecting the weapons companies is also laborious and bureaucratic. This system of rapporteurs should therefore remain the same as it is today in order to maintain the sense of the work, and judges should be appointed as the status of these assortment posts. As far as notaries are concerned, I also find it problematic that when notaries have so far applied to the district where they wanted this auscultation to be carried out, this jury of judges would take over this election once a year and then select these 120 to 130 notaries. And I don't think it's a good procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u263	Mr President! The reform is indeed a big one, and perhaps even a historic one, and perhaps that is why, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we should also look at this process in Parliament. In our own committee, we drew attention to the way in which we will ensure fair trials in the future and also a prompt trial. Of course, there are fundamental rights and their importance. They are, as we know, the cornerstones of the rule of law. The processing times in Finland must not be excessive. In the committee, we also stressed the need for adequate guarantees for the basic funding of courts and other authorities responsible for the implementation of legal security even in difficult economic situations. The experts were worried. They were really concerned that the resources were really thin and tight. There is also concern about training in this field and its attractiveness. How are we going to attract students, talented legal scientists into the field? And, ultimately, it is also a question of a wider division of power and of the independence of the courts, and that is why we want to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u264	Mr President! It is easy to agree with the thanks given here to the chairman of the committee and to the work of the committee advisers. This was discussed for a long time, a large number of experts were consulted and, indeed, there was a long attempt to achieve a coherent vision, and the overall work was good. The problems and criticisms of this armaments system were well addressed here, but the great concern was about the ability of this training board to act and whether it really has the capacity to carry out the tasks that were being delegated to it in this new system. And while this working group was set up in the Ministry of Justice to set up this judicial office and indeed this system is to be set up next year, it is well founded that this year could have been expected when the matter has been in the pipeline for so long. That is why I agreed with this disagreement, but overall the preparation has been very good and the debate has been very good and it is also good that these concerns were raised in the committee report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u265	Mr President! Thank you to the members and alternates of the committee for this good debate. Just a few things. Vice-Chair of the Committee, representative The Biaudet brought this matter before the Court of Justice. Of course, I agree that if we had a decision to actually set it up, it would of course make no sense to start this training now. But now that the task force has just been set up and it is not so fashionable to set up new agencies in these difficult economic times, and now that 20 years have been tried to get this education system into operation, I fear that if that agency were not set up, then it would go on for another 10 years. That's why it would be good to get this thing moving. And indeed, if this agency were to hopefully be set up during this parliamentary term, with such a positive view, it would certainly be transferred to it. Of course this is the case, but now we're gonna get this thing kicked out of the way, and we're gonna get this thing started. Well, then Mr Skinner rightly expressed his concern about this funding of the courts. At the moment, the general courts have such a 3.1 million-million-dollar gap in this funding. In other words, it is essential that it should be obtained immediately. I believe that this budget debate will probably return to that point — or we will have to come back because we are talking about the basic element of our society, the judiciary. We must ensure that it works effectively in these difficult times and that people's legal protection is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u266	Mr President! I haven't finished much. I will continue with the selection of notaries: today this search is possible throughout the year, and it is more flexible, given that the university will also be completed at any time of the year. Now it is inevitable that the period of unemployment will come if, for example, it is completed early in the year and this application is only until the end of the year for these posts. This judicial training commission raised a debate as to whether it was already under-resourced, i.e. whether it was actually in a position to carry out its duties. However, the tasks planned for the Board are also not suitable for a side-by-side committee. In other words, the starting point was that separate institutions and decisions on their tasks, their staff and the number of staff should only be taken in the context of the establishment of this central office of the Court of Justice. I would like to emphasise that this system of cheap judges, which, on the contrary, has been an attempt to get rid of the various salaries and grades, is now going in the wrong direction, and that is not a good development. It has also been considered why the Supreme Courts, Supreme Court and Supreme Administrative Court were not included in this. These laws have been reformed quite recently from 2005 to 2006, and, of course, the plans to merge the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court will also be haunted in the future. And, of course, the nature of the Special Court also underlines this role. But with these words, of course, I hope that the Court of Justice will come, and training is, of course, a matter of fundamental importance for judges to encourage it for everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u267	Mr President! It's very brief. Perhaps I too am more optimistic, and I hope that the Court of Justice can be set up, and we promise to support that work when it moves forward. And in that sense we all agree that the training of judges is very much to be expected and very important. I am also concerned that, if it does, the year before the changes will be made, which will also have a bearing on the judiciary and its resources. Perhaps that is why I came to this optimistic expectation. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u268	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mr Tolvanen, for taking this economic situation and the threats it poses seriously — and I know that you are taking it seriously. It is not far from the situation that we are faced with human rights agreements that are binding on Finland, and in many respects have already come, for example, with regard to processing times. The question then is how far we can go in these savings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u269	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 15/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-16-ps-70.u270	Mr President! The crowdfunding law is a good law, and I am really glad that it is so far along. It will be a really big tool for us Finns, especially from the point of view of growth and entrepreneurship. Of course, it is a bit of a pity that we are dealing with it at this time of night, because this should be discussed more. However, it is a question of Finnish business life and its financing. Mr President! Finland needs new forms of funding. The growth of Finnish enterprises and innovations is all too often still dependent on a lack of capital. In Finland, venture capital investment has developed but still lags behind other countries. At the same time, the government's cuts in Tekes' funding are visible and felt. This is why crowdfunding is the preferred option for existing funding models. Unfortunately, commercial banks are often not friends with small or medium-sized companies. Retracting from the Basel rules and others, for example, and moving further away from small and even medium-sized enterprises. In Sweden and the rest of the world, for example, crowdfunding has been much more advanced and we still have a long way to go in this area. But what can you do with crowdfunding? Why is that such a big deal? Often, if we look at examples from the world, the nature of crowdfunding is suitable for an object that is emotional: there is a feeling of investing as a small investor in something interesting and good in one's own mind. But it is also a fact that we lack a lot of equity funding in Finland, and it will then involve other professional investors. Therefore, I see that crowdfunding can be used to involve, for example, Finnvera, industrial investment or private angel investors or other professional investors. The legislative project is based on investments of less than EUR 5 million. At that time, there is often talk of existing business or investment in start-ups. But how is this activity monitored, and by whom? The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy drew attention to the need for clear and credible controls. The Committee on Economic Affairs proposed that the Regional State Administrative Agency of Southern Finland be removed from the law and that a consumer ombudsman be included if the consumer is a customer. Financial supervision plays an important role here too. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also drew attention to the need for small companies to be able to enter the market. This must not just be a field of play for big players, big financial institutions in the future. Finally, Mr President, examples of what crowdfunding can do: It can make product-specific development, among other things. It can test various research and development projects, even brands, even creative projects, and create such a whole to test it, to do it quite rightly with the government's emphasis on the platform economy, the experimental economy to test things. And if anything works, it can then be started into a real business. All in all, Mr President, this is a good project, a good law, and I believe that this will be a great pleasure for us Finns.
