ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee, the Legal Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u2	Mr President! The aim of the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is to strengthen the prevention and detection of these crimes. The development of the anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system and the increased transparency of owner information responds to the need to effectively combat the shadow economy and financial crime, which is the largest pre-crime group in Finland, in addition to drug offences. Effective prevention, detection and detection of money laundering and terrorist financing also require the operational services to be empowered to respond to the needs of the changing fight against crime. The proposal includes a separate bill from the Money Laundering Clearing Centre. A government proposal would implement the so-called Fourth Money Laundering Directive. The proposed legislation would replace the existing Money Laundering Act of 2008. The first Money Laundering Directive concerned only the financial sector but has already been extended to some other business operators in 2001. The Directive sets a minimum level of regulation and aims in particular to protect the EU's financial system. Money laundering and terrorist financing are not just a financial system problem. There could be any kind of crime behind it, and money laundering and terrorist financing are often... [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President : Minister for Foreign Affairs,as a result of your performance,I request that the Chamber be silenced. Minister, you may proceed. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u5	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a thorough presentation. Indeed, the objectives of this government's proposal to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing are worthy and timely. The focus in the fight against the shadow economy, money laundering and terrorism must be on prevention, and, as the Minister has presented here, the main changes with this bill are a more risk-based approach, the review of the powers of supervisors, the reform of the sanction system, the obligation to identify people with political influence at home and the registration of the beneficial owners, and then even more detailed provisions on the exchange of information between FIUs. The Minister has already raised these critical remarks and critical statements on this proposal. Perhaps the most visible criticism has been expressed by the Finnish Federation of Financial Services, which has pointed out that this reform proposal would, if implemented, lead to a question being asked of the taker of home, cascade and travel insurance in the future as to whether he is a politically influential person or whether he or she is close to them, and this would be perceived by the customers as a scourge. Another criticism, which has been linked to this, is that, on the basis of this Fourth Money Laundering Directive, these additional obligations on voluntary insurance are not directly included in this directive, but would be totally national additional regulation, which would be quite contrary to the guidelines of the Government Programme. One question that is also left open with regard to this proposal is what, for example, an insurance company should do if customers do not answer these queries for one reason or another. It should be noted that this 'politically influential person', who is therefore engaged in a significant public task, whether in Finland or abroad, is of course the concept of a time drawn in water, that where the limit is drawn. Well, according to a report from the Ministry of the Interior, these include, for example, the President of the Republic, Ministers, MPs, Supreme Court judges, members of the Board of Governors of the Central Bank, members of the governing body of a state-owned company and ambassadors. It should be noted that this obligation to report would apply not only to these politically influential individuals themselves but also to their immediate circle. In other words, the law would require the reporting party to determine whether these politically influential persons belong to the customer’s family circle or partners. In other words, the obliged party should determine whether its client is the spouse, child or parent of a potentially significant public person or whether there is a close business relationship with such a person. These are certainly issues that should be clarified in the Committee's work. I hope that the Minister will also comment in a little more detail on where the border is actually drawn and whether, for example, a lighter identification procedure can be used for compulsory social security insurance, for example, in the case of occupational pension insurance, because there are situations, including insurance activities which do not really involve a great deal of risk of money laundering or financing terrorism, and then there will be no unnecessary inquiry. Well, I'm going back to this performance, except for this detail. Indeed, as the proposal rightly points out, money laundering and terrorist financing can take advantage of almost any economic activity, and it is therefore good that this review is now being extended. On top of that, attempts that seem very innocent can be involved in criminal activity. Perhaps this now brings to mind a public example, this toy smuggler of Aleppo, who was now suspected of being connected even to terrorist organisations and possibly to fund-raising abuses. Although Finland has been spared terrorist attacks, it is clear that recruitment activities are also taking place in Finland, funds are being raised to support terrorism abroad. During the last parliamentary term, a number of important solutions were taken, for example, by stepping up anti-terrorism legislation: the police were given the opportunity to check passenger registers, and the criminalisation of terrorism has been tightened. Crime threat assessments show that crime is increasingly being transferred to information networks, and money laundering is also becoming more frequent, as a purely professional activity, making it even more difficult to detect it. Financial services are now also largely computer-based services, which are also available across national borders. This means that it is possible to transfer the proceeds of crime or the funds earmarked for financing terrorism more quickly to another country. In this context, legislation seeks to respond more effectively to changes that have already taken place in the operating environment. In this context, I would like to remind you that we still do not have sufficient legislation in Finland at the moment to enable the cross-border acquisition of information on terrorism in order to guarantee national security. This is exceptional. In Sweden, for example, it has been estimated that telecommunications intelligence has prevented terrorist acts. That is why I hope that the legislation that will enable online intelligence to be dealt with by the parliamentary group, also by the Group chaired by Mr Töll, will be put in place quickly and understood even the topical and urgent need for it. Mr President! Finally, last week it was confirmed from the government that additional resources will be allocated to the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior, which are indeed urgently needed in order, among other things, to continue this fight against the shadow economy and not to lose sight of it. However, the continuation of police activity at a good level also in the longer term, and not just as a temporary solution of this kind, requires more long-term solutions. It is also important, from the point of view of the police administration, that this prevention and fight against the shadow economy can be continued in the long term and that we know that resources will then be available for the coming years. I hope that the Minister will also explain how the government intends to secure police resources, especially in the fight against the shadow economy, also in the long term.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u6	Mr President! This new law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism contains almost 300 pages and significant measures to prevent money laundering and shows that the government is actively interfering in the black economy. Critical comments have been made here, which have also been raised by the Finnish Federation of Financial Services, including on the extension of the reporting obligation and bureaucracy. It is true that, of course, when there is a desire to correct these shortcomings, it will always mean additional measures for those honest operators too. Let us hope that these comments will be examined in committee. We have also taken measures in Parliament, and the government has, of course, brought those proposals in order to combat terrorism, and here is one more. Training has been criminalised and now more measures are being taken to prevent funding, as this proposal has been widely mentioned. One dimension of this also extends to our new gaming company starting at the turn of the year: the new Veikkaus will start at that time. Veikkaus, RAY and Fintoto merge into a new bet, which after a year is now called only Veikkaus. But Paf is getting out of this merger, and this proposal makes it quite clear that even these large actors in Mainland Finland would have been faced with challenges to respond to these measures as independent actors, it would have taken considerable resources away from them. It would be interesting to hear from the Minister whether Paf, as an independent player, is able to meet these very strict requirements for identification and for gambling not to take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u7	Mr President! Tackling money laundering in order to make the activities of terrorism more difficult and to prevent terrorism is also an important issue for us Finns. Not only is terrorism an ideological activity, but it also involves a large-scale use of funds, the collection of funds, the continued provision of them to enable terrorism and, in many cases, the very wide lives of the leaders of these terrorist organisations with these funds. That is why we must also tackle the flow of funds and try to prevent acts that support illegal terrorism that endanger human lives. It is clear that for us Finns this problem is of course in a different scale than in many other countries, including in a different scale than in many other European countries. It is equally important that we are involved in this. There may also be opportunities to overdo it. It is therefore desirable for the committee to go through the details of the proposal carefully. After all, however, it must be said that, in the main, we ourselves should be on the side that moves forward the activities that make terrorism more difficult and, for example, the fight against money laundering. The recent results of the US presidential election seem to suggest that the new President, Mr Trump, will put the fight against terrorism at the very heart of his own foreign and security policy. Last week, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Parliament had the opportunity to familiarise itself with recent American assessments, both before and after the elections, and on this basis it can be seen that, overall, there are significant changes in US policy, including foreign policy and security policy. Many of these changes are such that for us Finns there is no particular reason for waving or rejoicing the flag. We should stick to our own values and European values. I am thinking, for example, of the risk of denunciation of the climate agreement or of acting in practice in such a way that the United States withdraws from the obligations of the climate agreement. Increasing the use of coal or increasing the use of oil, no matter what pollution they cause and how they affect climate change, there is no policy in which we can please the Americans because the new President has changed. There are other issues relating to trade policy that need to be worried about. The relationship with human rights is also a type in which Europe must stand on its own feet. But in the fight against terrorism, I think there is a good starting point for Finland to be able to play its part in this area as a clear leader and to be prepared to take action to respond to the great concern about terrorism both in Europe and in the United States and in the rest of the world. A year ago, I was at the US Congress at a conference where these terrorist problems were dealt with from the American point of view, but also their very high level of activity on the intelligence front, not only in the United States but also in Europe and, of course, out of Europe to the Middle East and the rest of the world. It is quite clear that the Americans have committed themselves to these intelligence activities and also to these money laundering activities in order to cut off the roots of terrorism as effectively as possible. It is good that we in Finland have a clear line here on issues that can take place without a fundamental risk to citizens' rights. We are also a reliable partner for the United States, and we have heard and quoted the concern they have. But I would also like to say here that while these measures are being taken — and I do not see any major problems with fundamental rights here — it is important that Finland and Europe stick to this fundamental right perspective. When Chancellor Merkel of the German Republic presented his congratulations to the new President of the United States, Trump, he stressed European values and, among other things, the commitment to human rights, and this also provides a sustainable basis for our own political orientation in the post-US elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u8	Mr President! This is an important matter and an important law. However, it is difficult to understand why, when taking out non-life insurance, it would be necessary to determine the customer’s connection to us MPs and even afterwards. Yes, there must also be reason in the fight against terrorism. Since I often do not share the view expressed by the Confederation of Financial Services, I am happy to take this opportunity to inform the committee not to go overboard. Mr President! In the big picture, this legislation represents a decisive turn of events in the European Union, which is determined to tackle international tax evasion, shady financial transactions and the concealment of property. The OECD project to prevent the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits, BEPS, shows the global will to ensure that taxes are paid and taxes paid where they belong. The European Commission has been rapidly preparing ambitious legislation which, thanks to the common will of the Member States, has progressed rapidly. Public authorities' rights to information have improved, country-by-country reporting is becoming more binding, although there is still room for improvement and, above all, significant anti-tax evasion legislation was adopted in the summer. Finland has been on the frontline of this battle. During the last term of government, Minister of Finance Urpilainen convened a meeting of EU finance ministers here in Helsinki to discuss the prevention of international tax evasion. The previous government also launched a major programme for the shadow economy. The previous government also received the support of the opposition, or even more so: the opposition called for stronger action from the government. Juha Sipilä, then opposition leader, suggested that tax havens should be banned. In its own shadow budget, the Centre was the only source of revenue of EUR 600 million from the informal economy programme. The Centre also called for stricter interest relief restrictions, especially for real estate financing. All good things. But the greater was the amazement that Juha Sipilä, as Prime Minister, did not continue in the same line at all, but, rather, showed great understanding of tax planning. Without interfering with individual ministers' own tax arrangements, the government promoted the tax evaders' amnesty law, the management register and sought to undermine the anti-gray economy programme. After all, the mood changed in April, thanks to Panama paper. Even before that, the government had been forced to yield under pressure from the opposition and to restore resources to work against the shadow economy. After Panama, a parliamentary shadow economy observatory was set up, which has been able to meet once in six months. Thus, as a member of the group, I am nervous whether we will be able to meet again before Christmas. As in so many government projects, it has to be said that actions do not correspond to big words. Finland’s enthusiasm for combating the black economy and tax evasion has become relaxed. The forerunner has become a skier. However, management registration was not buried, as promised by the then Finance Minister last December. Making the register possible is still under discussion in the Committee on Economic Affairs and I hope the committee will have the wisdom to stay in Finland's open line. The European mainstream has moved in the direction that Finland’s open ownership system is now an example for the rest of Europe. The Finnish model is now what the EU as a whole is trying to achieve. If education is an area where we are happy to be an example to others, then open and transparent ownership can be another typical issue for the world in Finland. The authorities have opposed and opposed the management register, precisely because money laundering and criminal activity are more likely to occur when it is still possible to hide ownership. Governance registration would therefore undermine the objectives of this excellent money laundering law, the most important of which is to increase the publicity of ownership. So now you don't have to slap your right hand with your left hand. Money laundering law is needed, management registers are not.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u9	Mr President! Representative Harakka talks a lot and is happy to talk about the grey economy and the importance of combating it. I think it's the right thing to do. The grey economy is one of those vermin that gnaws the economy in Finland and, unfortunately, in many other countries much more. The grey economy will cause damage, which will then have to be suffered by ordinary taxpayers, ordinary entrepreneurs. But it is difficult to accept that Mr Harakka is attacking the government in these matters of the shadow economy, even when the government makes important and good proposals to combat the grey economy, as it has done now. On the contrary, I should like to share Mr Haraka's view that we hope that this is not an exaggeration, but that the committee will consider the appropriate comments that have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u10	Mr President! Even though I was trying to understand Mr Zyskowicz's recent statement, I do not see the basis for it, because somehow it seems that, having listened to you and before that, Mr Haraka, you are quite in the same line, so, of course, we need new weapons for the fight against terrorism, for money laundering. Then everyone here is of the opinion that we must ensure that there are no excesses that are too damaging to the lives of the ordinary citizen. I understand that you also felt that way, and Mr Harakka was also concerned about that. After all, his speech in relation to the grey economy and the last parliamentary term was mainly a history of what happened during the last parliamentary term and what the proposals of the centre were then. Then there is the history of what has been done on the program of this present government. Finally, I am pleased that there is a situation here where I think Mr Harakka and Mr Zyskowicz agree on something.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u11	Mr Zyskowicz seems to want to reply and then Mr Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u12	Mr President! I am happy to agree with Mrs Haraka and also with all the other Members of Parliament, because I firmly believe and trust that we are all doing important work here for the good of our country. My point in my previous speech was that this government has made important proposals to combat the shadow economy. This proposal on money laundering is one of them. It is not many months since, in certain circumstances, we imposed a reverse burden of proof on financial crime so that this financial criminal must show where the wealth has come from under conditions in which he has already been convicted of financial crimes. In addition, this government is, for example, taking better care of the number of policemen than the previous government when adopting the framework for this parliamentary term. I just wanted to draw attention to these points that this continued
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u13	Mr Harakka, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy, has responded to this particular debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u14	Mr President, I too am very happy to agree with Mrs Zyskowicz, who I appreciate. I highlighted the fact that this initiative has also come from an EU initiative. In this context, European legislation has recently become much sharper in the very areas that Finland has seen as important in recent years: the fight against the shadow economy, tax evasion and the concealment of property. But on its own initiative, with the exceptions mentioned by the representative, the government has rather provided legislation that facilitates tax evasion or pardons tax evaders. I hope that this legislation will come to an end and that Finland will remain European.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u15	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u16	Mr President! Tax evasion and tax planning are influenced precisely by international decisions. That is why this government affects where it is most useful, and so many EU obligations, such as the exchange of information agreement, have gone a long way. Now we are preparing and there is light in sight even for a certain type of tax harmonisation so that we do not have to approach zero at the end of each country's corporate tax system, because profits are always transferred to those countries where it is most advantageous to tax. But at all, the point raised by Mrs Zyskowicz: I would like to see praise given when it comes to thanks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u19	Mr President! The grip on the fight against terrorism is tightening. It is good that the active grip that Finland has continues in the fight against terrorism, and we are on the same front with Europe here. This law focuses on money laundering in a way that comes close to all Finnish citizens. There has not been much talk of this in public, and if so, at least I have not heard the point of view of the way in which legislation once again narrows people's privacy in the face of various fears. The monitoring and control of citizens is tightening up in a way that we are not used to. This law assumes that everyone can be suspected of money laundering until proven otherwise. This is interesting in the sense that this human future seems to be shrinking until there is no more privacy, and there is always some reason for this from fear and threat. Now that the committees are dealing with this, it would be very important to take this aspect of privacy into account in a special way, that we do not ultimately make a law that deprives us of all our lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u20	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a clear and balanced presentation. The fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism is an important part of the overall fight against terrorism, and that is why this overall reform is a good project, and it is precisely a project to prevent corruption. It will, of course, tighten the controls but at the same time create opportunities for intervention by the authorities. This extended assessment of policies and of our immediate neighbours is also appropriate. The reform will probably increase administrative work, but at the same time it will increase the transparency of the Finnish financial sector, and it will be necessary to provide for preventive mechanisms to prevent corruption as well. The reform of the money laundering laws has not received unreserved support from all sides, but has also been criticised. These are the points that we will certainly be looking at in committee, but thank you for the consistency that Minister Risikko has shown in calling for regulatory harmonisation and also for the inclusion of the obligation to identify key political decision-makers, despite this criticism, because it is good in these matters that the rules are the same for all. And since under the current Money Laundering Act financial undertakings are obliged to assess foreign politically influential customers more intensively, this directive would then extend the obligation to MPs and ministers and judges of the Supreme Courts, including Finns. We know that organised crime at EU level has recently, and increasingly, been targeted in particular:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u21	Mr President! This government proposal to implement the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council is a very timely and important issue. It is the case that international crime is currently using all possible channels, infiltrating almost everywhere, and that is why legislation and, above all, the authorities must be so sensitive all the time and the legislative measures proposed here are very good and worthy of support. The truth is, however, that in today’s world there is a huge amount of money in that bit world and not all addresses are likely to be daylight-proof. Therefore, the legislation needs to be updated, and I would like to see that, now that this directive is talking about setting up such a centre on this issue, it may also be necessary, but I would prefer to see it this way — that the police, and specifically the police working with international cooperation, should be given the financial resources rather than the construction of large bureaucratic agencies, because the only way to control this crime is by the fact that the police are sufficiently prepared to act against illegal money laundering and illegal money transfers. Without sufficient staff and sufficient modern tools, it will be extremely difficult to prevent international crime. We all know that, for example, there are certainly billions of opportunities on the Internet to transfer money from one place to another so that it is extremely difficult to find out. It is clear that Finland too should participate in this work as one of the Member States of the European Union and put its own legislation in order — as stated in this government proposal, 25 laws are being amended. Changes must be made, and in particular that Finland should put its own house in order, and in the European Union it demands that there be firm action and, above all, cooperation outside Europe as well, because this is not just a European problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u22	Mr President! Minister! 12.3.2014 was such an important day that the then government approved the first action plan against international tax evasion in Finland through the preparation of Minister Urpilainen. It set ambitious targets: country-specific targets and specific targets for state-owned companies, which are important. We must, of course, thank the EU for the fact that we are dealing with this issue today, and thank the Minister for bringing this matter to a proper hearing here today. Believability in these matters requires that we too keep this home base in good shape in relation to the black economy, and that is why I would like to say a few words about it. During the last term of government, we worked hard to combat the shadow economy. 20 million were invested in it on an annual basis and results targets were set for such a sum of EUR 200 million. 335 additional experts were hired to do this everyday work against the informal economy, which also resulted in these results. But this work should continue in many ways, and in that sense I miss very concrete proposals that relate to Finland. I would now like to take a few examples where I would like to see proposals coming from the government. The Ordering Liability Act applies to the construction sector in such a way that there are obligations for subcontractors and others to meet their tax obligations and contractual obligations. The extension of this law on subscriber liability to sectors other than construction would be justified. The tax number, which concerns the construction sector, has produced a great deal and has prevented a great deal in advance, brought matters into the context of a bright economy. The extension of the tax number to sectors other than construction, such as transport, hotels and restaurants, is an important innovation. In the case of public procurement, which we are dealing with right now in this House, it would also be important to exclude companies which do not respect working conditions and social standards and basics from these procurements. Now this is not compulsory, and it is not sufficiently lauded in this government proposal. The right of action would be very important because, when many immigrants come to work here, they are afraid to settle down, to declare their rights. This right of action would make it possible for the affairs of these people to be accepted. Smaller but important are the type-approved cash register in restaurants, and in connection with the traffic cycle I am talking about taxi meters or similar devices that ensure that the tax revenues are also known to everyone. These are the examples in which we would like the government to act and bring concrete proposals to this House that are credible in the fight against the shadow economy. Over the last period, the centre presented a revenue source of EUR 600 million to combat the shadow economy. How shabby that program is — I have not yet seen it, but it would of course be nice to see which programme they consider to have achieved this goal. After all, there might be proposals that should still be brought up to this day, but then let them remain. Mr President! These are the ideas I would like to put forward and I hope that the Minister, who was also working hard on this subject during the last term of the government, will be able to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u23	Mr President! This proposal is very important and necessary and is mainly in the right direction. In fact, transparency and publicity of ownership and beneficiary information is absolutely essential both in the fight against money laundering and terrorism and in the fight against tax evasion. By imposing adequate transparency obligations on all types of ownership information and beneficiary information, different types of crime, market-distorting insider dealing, corruption and tax evasion can be prevented and exposed. It would also be essential for this beneficiary information to be public, not only public authorities, but it is essential that the public and the media also receive information on these matters and thus abuse can also arise. Mr President! There has been good practice in Finland, i.e. a ban on ownership management registration, which promotes transparency of ownership. However, there is now a proposal on the parliamentary table that would enable Finnish ownership management to be registered and encrypted through foreign CSDs. This would be inconsistent with this objective of transparency of ownership and beneficiary information, as enabling management registration would create opportunities for tax avoidance, financial crime and corruption. The law is pending in Parliament. It has slowed down a little, but I would like to see changes made to it that would allow us to ensure that our legislation is uniform and that all our legislation is binding on the widest possible publicity of ownership. In the EU, this directive is also a sign of transparency, and it is important that Finland does not go in the other direction and that it should be possible to conceal and conceal ownership, but that all legislation should seek ownership and ownership.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u24	Mr President! Finland has had a very high level of money laundering legislation and we should continue to do so. And now that there are a number of amendments to the legislation with this directive, it is appropriate that this entire money laundering law should be reformed, but that this high level should be maintained. What has come to light here is that there is also concern about these excesses. It is certainly appropriate to reflect on this future of insurance products, but, as the interpretation of the Constitution is, the legislation restricting fundamental rights must be precise and precise, which is why this law cannot be written as loosely as what is written in the directive, so that many of these acts are justified. As a new element of this legislation, this reduction in the threshold for the identification of the customer who pays the cash payment will be reduced from EUR 15,000 to EUR 10000, which is a good thing. In practice, therefore, this interpretation of the cash transaction means only this cash. There have also been questions about whether this also means card trading, but in practice this does not apply to payment cards, but to cash. And then comes this obligation to identify politically influential people. So it has been for foreign persons before, but now it comes to domestic persons. Here, too, it is good that this information comes precisely to the people, what is at stake, so that it does not cause greater concern. So here are the President of the Republic, Ministers, MPs, Supreme Court judges, members of the Executive Board of the Central Bank, members of the governing body of a state-owned company, ambassadors and their close associates: spouse, child, parent or an influential person in a close business relationship. On this gray economy, I would like to say, but perhaps I'll ask another...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u27	Mr President! As I said, the same objective was set during the last government term: 20 million funds and 200 to 300 million revenue. As I recall, the coalition was involved in this government and was actively contributing to achieving these objectives and was not then called into question. And the same is true now: we only now have a specific programme in paragraph 21, which will increase the momentum in the fight against the shadow economy. In this respect, we are modest with this objective, because I am quite sure that these additional measures will enable these objectives to be achieved. Moreover, it must always be seen that a lot of such preventive work is being done in the fight against the shadow economy: measures that lead to non-compliance are very important. They can never be measured. In this respect, I think that our objective is realistic, given that we are taking away the objectives that I have just gone to the toilet to present — not without them, of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u28	I would like to give Mr Laukkanen the answers and then Mr Mäkelä, who opened the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u29	Mr President! The European Fraud Unit invests around 50 million a year, bringing some 350 to 400 million benefits, i.e. in the euro area as a whole. In Finland, these estimates of the amount of investment in research into the shadow economy are strongly oversized. It would be good if someone were really looking into what it's worth. But the many figures presented here do not correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u30	Mr President! I would like to ask Mr Ihalainen a question: do you think that the same benefits are always available with the same type of investment? Now, however, I am sure that the measures you yourself listed have already had an impact. As Mr Zyskowicz whispered here, the apples are as if already picked,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u33	And Mr Ihalainen, the reply, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u34	Mr President! It is clear that with these current measures this is not possible. There I listed six new measures that will affect. Let me take a few examples. If the tax number is lent to sectors other than construction, it will generate very significant revenue. If the law on local liability is extended to ensure that these subcontractors and other operators are subject to tax obligations and obligations not only in the construction sector but also in the construction sector, it will generate a great deal of revenue. It contains new measures which will make it possible to obtain more of this revenue. They're not repeats of old times. These have not been done, and that is why we propose that we do so in order to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u35	On the list of speakers, Mrs Parviainen Olli-Son, and then after her, the Minister will be able to take the floor, because it seems that we are now moving on to the second round.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u36	Mr President! Thank you for the good debate and the Minister for the introduction. This law is necessary and we must use all the means available to prevent all forms of terrorism and money laundering in our society. We need to tackle these issues rigorously and together. I will continue to expand the debate on the grey economy and aggressive tax avoidance, which has been the subject of a worthy debate here. I would also like to draw attention to the concern that, as a result of the Panama papers last spring, when we discussed the problems of aggressive tax evasion in our society in this Chamber too — now, according to Finnwatch’s recent report, EUR 400 to EUR 1400 million per year Finland loses only as a result of aggressive tax evasion — so during Question Time Prime Minister Sipilä offered a kind of solution to the question: a parliamentary task force was set up, to which Mr Harakka referred, to, to investigate and also prevent the situation of aggressive tax evasion and the black economy in Finland. Well, this working group became a monitoring group along the way, which means that it was virtually deprived of its powers. Since then, this monitoring group has met once: it drank coffee and received a progress report. It is a good thing in itself, but I would say that the prestige of this Chamber and the seriousness of this matter require a little more drag for this work. I hope that such a way of setting up working groups, or steering groups, will not be a way to steer the debate away from difficult issues, because we need to find solutions to these issues together. I am hopeful that someone will hear this message too and perhaps we will get to these questions again. In the meantime, everything will be done, including on the other side of the legislation, so that we can tackle these complex problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u37	I will give a reply to Mr Raatikainen, and then the Minister will speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u38	Mr President! A few references have now been made here to this parliamentary monitoring group for the shadow economy, of which I happen to be chairman. Just by chance, I have studied some of the grey economy, and I have also been a little involved in corruption and terrorism — not as an investigator, but as an investigator — so that I may have some kind of experience. It's great that there's a lot of experts here, other than me. As far as this parliamentary shadow economy observatory is concerned, last week I met a new secretary, there has been a change of secretary. I said, what's the situation? The situation is now that a meeting is being held in December. Unlike the Social Democrats, I do not have the habit of organising meetings just because we are in a meeting. They'll be arranged when there's something to tell. This is not a very complicated issue and this is what is being done now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u39	And now we move on to the Minister's speech. — — — — Secretary Risikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u40	Mr President! I will say a few things and then I will continue with another speech. Thank you for these good comments and also for the lunch that has been given. In just a few words, I say about this when it has been accused that this directive would lead to over-regulation. It is true, therefore, that it brings some of this in relation to the directive, as a result of our national regulation. After all, this directive requires that the banking sector, and then the insurance sector, life insurance and investment insurance, should be covered by this identification procedure, but we are proposing in this law that it includes the whole insurance sector, the whole insurance sector. And on what grounds? Because our national legislation has been covering the whole insurance sector for many years. The first Money Laundering Act in 1998 already takes into account the risk of money laundering in non-life insurance, and occupational pension insurance has been included in the scope of the 2008 Money Laundering Act. And now, in addition to the banking sector, the insurance sector as a whole comes, even if the directive does not fully require it, because of our own national legislation. The simplified procedure applies to insurance of a social security nature. It has already been said here, and it has also been said that the regulation will be able to specify those products for which a simplified procedure can also be used — but then it will only come in the regulation. I would like to emphasise that a completely new regulation is based on the Fourth Money Laundering Directive and that it will become a completely new regulation in this legislation. Mr Heinonen also asked about this Paf situation. It is covered in the same way as Veikkaus Oy, the purpose of the supervision is to transfer the powers to the provincial government by the so-called contract regulation in accordance with the Act of Self-Government. There was also a question here about preventing the grey economy and about which very worthy speeches were made. This government will also take care of this obstruction of the shadow economy by a number of different means. Mr Räsänen also asked about these financial implications and whether they had been taken into account. That is why, in the supplementary draft budget, I have now proposed to the Ministry of Finance that we should receive more funding for the budget for the coming year because we need it in this very many sectors. There will be how much to prevent the grey economy, these are usually wholes, and when crimes are solved, there may be different things coming up there. I believe that everything we can do to increase police resources will help in this area too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u43	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u44	Mr President! I would also like to say that I welcome and welcome this proposal, but it is certainly necessary to clarify certain details in more detail. For example, I am raising this question raised by the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority that how to define this politically influential person, because it is stated here in the legal provision that this risk-based assessment and these surveys are aimed at asking whether the customer, or whether he has been, politically influential or whether he has been, or has been, a family member or business partner of a politically influential person. In other words, these surveys can really be extended to family members of politically influential persons, children, even former spouses, and that is why it is important to know whether this applies to members of parliament on a row or not. Where's the border? Who's a politically influential person? It does not appear directly in this section. The list to which Mr Mäkelä referred here is, I understand, a list of examples drawn up by the Ministry of the Interior, where, for example, there are no Members of the European Parliament who, I understand, would in principle be included in this list. Then I would like to comment on it again when it was argued here that this government would have taken better care of police resources than the previous one.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u45	Mr President! There have been some good speeches here. As we all know — I am not going to repeat it terribly strongly here — money laundering and crime and terrorism are our scourges to which we must find answers. On the other hand, as a lawyer and a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would like us to have certain conditions in the rule of law. I am pleased to note that there was quite a long argument here, even an exceptionally long one, for the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. When I looked here at what articles of the Constitution we are going to have to consider in the Constitutional Committee, they will be at least the protection of private life, especially matters relating to home peace, the protection of personal data, the protection of property and the freedom to conduct a business. Furthermore, I found it very interesting here to have guarantees of legal certainty. After all, the Constitution provides that everyone must have the right to have their case dealt with properly and without undue delay before the competent court. Although Article 21 of the Constitution does not contain a list of areas of legal protection, the concept of fair trial has been considered to include the right to defend itself and to choose the lawyer himself, in accordance with a well-established interpretation. This is a perfectly clear situation: if you are accused, you must have legal assistance to deal with it legally. And it is very important that it is listed here separately and excluded that there is no obligation to provide information, of course, for a person who is a defence lawyer for the accused or in some way to advise him. That would completely lose its meaning, since no one could tell a lawyer, in fear of it, that he might not be able to defend himself. Very good. In addition, there was also talk here — and I think Mr Antero Laukkanen spoke about the protection of privacy and personal data — and I think that this is very important given precisely what Mr Räsänen was talking about: who is a politically influential person? What information is to be registered there, and what are necessary and necessary, how are they stored and released? However, it is a question of family members, i.e. keeping the necessary information stored there and a reliable and secure register, that is to say, the information is only passed on to the necessary situations. There were some speeches here about media publicity, so that at least this type of thing cannot, under any circumstances, go straight to the media to open. You always have to be careful, people can also get the wrong idea, someone can get a stamp like that, that's kind of weird when you're on a list. You must always remember that things are not always the way they are, they are what they look like. We also need to think about people's private lives, and that is important in this analysis. There were criticisms of this — whether Mrs Parviainen or who was criticising it — that this shadow economy observatory has not now met. I am a member of it myself, and indeed the chairman, Mr Raatikainen, has called it. So we had coffee, yes, but for about a couple of hours we went through things, and at least I felt that I was able to make a difference. I had studied things beforehand — the police, the judiciary, so that I at least felt that I was able to make a difference. We actually did more than drink coffee there. I wouldn't want to belittle our work, it's a serious job. I very much welcome the fact that Mr Raatikainen does not hold meetings just because we go there specifically to drink that coffee if there is no such thing. There were so many things, we got reports, we took things forward. I have no idea that it has been thrown as if just like that and drank coffee. Let's give you the right idea. However, here the citizens are following these programmes and broadcasts and there will be feedback that there will be no sitting or doing anything here in the Chamber. I have tried to tell you that we sit in committees and meetings and we do real work there and not just drink coffee — as the representative knows well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u46	Mr President! Of course, it is good to know that a few meetings have been held.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u49	We are moving on to the list of speakers at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u50	Mr President! Now I'm not talking about coffee or coffee cups, but important resources anyway. It is good that the government has put forward a proposal to eradicate money laundering and terrorist financing in this country. The proposal and, in particular, its objectives are, of course, very much to be welcomed. But I'm asking about resources. Last spring, a long debate was held in this Chamber on tax havens in connection with the so-called Panamanian papers. At that time, both in this Chamber and later in the evening at Yleisradio A-studio, the authorities' resources were also highlighted to do important work to combat the black economy, to eradicate tax havens and so on. In the A-studio of the Finnish Broadcasting Company, Tax Counsellor Markku Hirvonen pointed out the limited number of experts in the Tax Administration. In this speech, he pointed out that the Tax Administration has 15 experts at its disposal in tax haven work — 15, while the number of officials in Sweden is 200 and in Norway 100. I ask the Minister: what resources do we have to eradicate money laundering and combat terrorism if we take as a benchmark this part of the tax haven work I mentioned earlier? The programmes and legislative proposals alone do not — and neither do these parliamentary working groups — ensure that this work is successful, but we are in need of those hands. Police are talking about increasing police resources. I would like to remind you that the decline that has been going on for many years in this republic has now only been stopped and that the Social Democrats will give full support to this stop, as we did in our group statement last spring for an internal security report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u51	Mr President! The eradication of the shadow economy and the fight against terrorism are of the utmost importance, and this government proposal is very good. It is also important that we get the law from the Money Laundering Clearing Centre. One very cruel and repugnant part of the informal economy is trafficking in human beings. It's a cruel crime that breaks people up and breaks them down. A few years ago, the Councillor of Minorities investigated the situation in Finland, and we also have an unexpected amount of trafficking in human beings. On the basis of a merited report by the Ombudsman for Minorities, the situation in Finland has been improved, the victim assistance system has been improved, the identification of victims has been improved, but one of the key proposals that the Commissioner for Minorities made at the time is that a special unit should be set up in the criminal police to investigate trafficking in human beings and related crime. This crime is indeed cross-border and very much related to many other crimes, such as money laundering. I would like to ask the Minister whether the EU is perhaps becoming some new tools or reinforcement in the fight against trafficking in human beings, or would you consider that a criminal police officer in Finland could strengthen the investigation of trafficking in human beings or set up such a unit, as a minority representative once suggested?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u52	Mr President! Mr Raatikainen, the chairman of the shadow economy observatory, answered my question as to whether the group would still meet this year. Of course, it's strange that you have to ask questions in this room when there's no other communication. At that meeting under Midsummer, it was concluded that the next meeting will take place in October. Now that we are in mid-November, we might assume that some message will be sent to Members as to why the meeting has been delayed. Well, instead of even regretting the form of Mr Raatikainen, he considered it a matter of grudging the questioner. If I were an evil person, I would interpret the style as revealing the government’s attitude toward the work of the black economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u55	Mr President! We are on a very important issue, because today we can also make head-to-head decisions about whether or not tax evasion is taken seriously in Finland. Well, it has been very descriptive for this national debate recently that we share the view that tax evasion must be stopped, but what it means is that we are already very different. However, I am pleased that the opposition's criticism of tax evasion on a more stringent basis has been heard in the sense that we are today dealing with the government's proposal. But you can say that in many ways now the running should be improved in every way. First of all, the work that has been done shows a lot about the kind of tax evasion that this government base intends to impose. In fact, the EU is very firmly aligned and has assumed that this will take place on a particularly large agenda. Unfortunately, in Sipilä's government, the pace has been somewhat different. The EU's ambition and energy to act through the new tax avoidance directive and also by challenging these multinationals even to justice have not been very many substitutes in Finland to listen to this important work. Now we are in a situation in which the government must do a little bit more to intervene so that we are clearly more able to catch up with the avoidance of tax evasion. In the EU, it has been estimated that avoidance of tax evasion could effectively discharge tax-free income of up to EUR 1000 billion. In Finland, too, this amount rises to hundreds of millions, regardless of the source. Mr President! Then the big question is what do we mean when we talk about tax evasion and avoidance — aggressive tax planning, tax planning or tax evasion? It is clear that tax evasion is illegal and under no circumstances should any Member of Parliament justify it. Tax planning, on the other hand, has been considered legal, but aggressive tax planning, at least in accordance with the spirit of the law, can be considered to be contrary to the spirit of the law. Now I wonder when so much is going on either against the spirit of the law or even against the law, why not take a firmer stand on these matters. In the Socialist alternative budget, we have suggested that we could quirl the state economy by introducing tax-free income that has not been taxable in the past. One example is investment insurance. In connection with this management register debate, we came to the conclusion that it is clear that we should be better able to describe what ownership anyone has. Today, in the columns of magazines, the ownership of ordinary people is discussed very much and also about the possible links. Instead, we constantly have parties in this Chamber who want to leave these many kinds of links undisclosed, and that does not show a terrible way of dealing with this anti-tax evasion policy. I would now like to encourage the government to ensure that, if investment insurance were to be included in this tax, even with the rather lightly taxed model put forward by the Social Democrats, we would be able to see a lot of things that have never come up before. That is why I would now encourage Mr Raatikainen to raise these issues in his own working group if the government itself is not bringing them to light. Another big thing both around the world and we have this holding company practice, where within the same big company these different items can be dealt with by pricing tricks, and in that respect I think it is a big question for Finnish society, because this issue will be properly addressed by the government. We would also be able to give examples in our own actions of not being able to do so. Finally, there are many other examples that, if we do not participate in the EU's joint efforts to curb these multinationals and reduce their activities, then we are in a situation where, at the same time, we are giving wings to the argument which goes so far as to simply have to do the tax cycle in order to succeed, and there will be no very fertile ground for such a world in the future if we think that everyone is doing so. It is particularly important in the EU that we should be able to condemn an action in which the basic philosophy is that only tax evasion can succeed. It cannot be the basis of a proper social system at EU level, that we allow so much tax-free material that is not deliberately wanted to be subject to this tax. That is why I would continue to encourage the government. A perceptive new minister, a first lady of the shadow economy, could well take a broader line here on the issues that you would take in government to combat this grey economy, but also on those items which I have just mentioned, where we would make assets more visible and subject to this tax and transparency. There is a great deal of work to be done on the national fronts and on the EU level in particular, and if that is not the case, then I would say that during the last term of government a very exemplary anti-tax evasion action was launched, and in that respect I believe that one of the key figures was the then Finance Minister, Jutta Urplainen, who was on the move with this agenda in all the arenas. Now that would be a very good fit for the role played by the rapporteur's minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u56	Mr President! The government's proposal must, of course, be supported in every respect. Let me remind everyone in the Chamber that, after all, it is a question of money that how much money will be put into the police and the investigation. It's also about the protection police. That the more you put it there, the more power you get, and at the moment we have this ratio in relation to any other country in Europe, that number, how many cops there are. I'm afraid this is the way it goes. On the other hand, from the shadow economy parliamentary observatory: I looked in those notes at the fact that I had been in contact with it in October. I was informed there was a change of secretary, and I actually visited the secretary here last week. Planned date for the meeting... For the information of Haraka and others, it has not yet been confirmed, but 16 December has been proposed. I would also like to say to others that it is worth remembering that, when we had this first meeting, there was already a very advanced strategy, and there is also a direct programme of measures in paragraph 20. To that end, let me say that it is worth remembering that this is a follow-up group. We're not a planning team. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u57	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Raatikainen for this clarification, and the reason for this delay in work, as far as staff exchanges are concerned, is, of course, quite humane and understandable. My criticism was precisely that the task force became a monitoring group along the way, and the focus of the monitoring group was still limited in general, for example, by the fact that the aggressive tax debate was not involved, but by the working group we are focusing on the fight against the shadow economy — which is also extremely important — and I do not mean anything else, but rather that this work is so large that I believe that it requires a wide range of measures not only from this working group but also from the whole of Parliament. Perhaps at that December meeting in the working group we could consider together what steps we are taking to genuinely get this job for the next turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u58	Mr President! It is good to know now that this debate has taken place between the chairman and the secretary. I see no particular reason why we Members could not have been informed that the plans have changed, and why not only when asked separately. Surely it was justifiable and revealing how Mr Raatikainen described the work of this group. All we have to do is follow. Now perhaps we have a slight disagreement as to who wants to follow closer and who needs to follow further.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u59	Mr President! The number of police officers has been raised in this number of speeches. On many occasions in the past, I have been concerned about this, as have many others here and I will continue to do so in the future. If there were the same number of police officers in Finland as in Sweden, so if there were to be a proportion of the population, there should be about 10,000 police officers in Finland. But, of course, these are not directly comparable, because in different countries the police have different tasks. They have been distributed differently between different authorities, and in this respect direct comparisons are not possible. The Internal Security Report promised that 7,000 would be established, and last week the Ministry announced that the budget would be supplemented to keep the figure at 7200, which was very good news.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u60	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u61	Mr President! This speech was actually intended as a response to Mr Räsänen, who had already left the Chamber when Mr Räsänen was surprised that there was no Members of the European Parliament on this list. Now that you look at this text, it is stated here that 'a person of political influence is a natural person who acts or has served in a public capacity as Head of State - a Member of Parliament'. So here we are not going to specify whether this is a Member of the national parliament or a Member of the European Parliament, but obviously this is both. At the same time, attention was drawn to this definition of a family member of a politically influential person. It has been said here that 'a spouse or partner comparable to a spouse in the national legislation of the country concerned', and I think that it is appropriate to interpret whether it is also a common-law spouse who, in practice, means that he or she lives at the same address.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u62	Mr President! There has been talk of aggressive tax avoidance here, and it is good that we are talking about it, because aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance is a huge problem. According to Finnwatch's estimate, Finland loses EUR 430 to EUR 1,400 million annually. In any case, they are huge sums out of the common good and it is a major distortion of competition for the benefit of a large company. It is suffering small businesses that are unable to do this kind of aggressive international tax planning. It is very important that this phenomenon is addressed: at both international and national level, we do what we can. It is good that we have a parliamentary group on combating the shadow economy, but it should work, and it is not enough that it meets, but that the government is now expected to take action to eradicate aggressive tax evasion. It should also be remembered that a few years ago, Parliament has accepted the effort to assess and report annually to Parliament on the tax losses caused by aggressive tax planning. Unfortunately, this has not been done, even though the pony has been approved, but fortunately Finnwatch has now published this assessment. But it would also be necessary, on behalf of the Ministry, to make up for this information gap, because the requirement for action is correct information. But, Mr President, with regard to this thematic issue, I would like to ask the Minister what is to be done to improve the reporting to Parliament of this tax deficit caused by aggressive tax planning, and what is to be done to tackle this phenomenon at all, and is the government bringing to Parliament a plan to combat aggressive tax planning? I would also like to ask: what will be done to improve the tax reporting of state-owned companies? It has been argued that state-owned companies make country-specific accounting and tax reporting, but this tax reporting has proved to be very inadequate. This is the kind of problem that can be
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u63	Mr President! The government's proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism is certainly a welcome and very good one for all of us. The debate has, of course, expanded to aggressive tax planning, but perhaps to stay closer to this subject — how terrorism is financed and money laundering is done — the Minister of Value will certainly have, as in everyday times, perhaps closer experiences of what is happening here at national level. We have a national receipt trade here, we are keeping out the financial flows of companies so that we are paid underpaid in this country, so that, in a way, the income from the subscriber is not allocated as in normal business, but is left out of taxable money that is in the grey area. For example, the foreign actor we now have here in the shipbuilding industry, for example, who comes here and uses underpaid personnel, receives tax benefits, and that is precisely the grey area that is easy to allocate to these criminal organisations. We have criminal organisations in this country that have been caught in a receipt shop, and we should therefore have this under control. That is why I am asking here, for example, what Mr Ihalainen has listed, which clogged the real channels through which we have tax evasion to finance criminal activities, and that is just one channel for it to go to this side of terrorism. This tax number and the development of the Act on Customer Liability — would these now be at the heart of it? That although this is EU-driven, now at national level
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u64	Mr President! This government proposal to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing is very important and very much to be supported. These shortcomings and those associated with them are often also associated with trafficking in human beings and many of the mild phenomena resulting therefrom. It is very important to eradicate these. But while the government's proposal is good, it is not enough on its own, but we need sufficient and effective resources, that is to say more police officers — that is, enough police to pick up and deal with these shortcomings, but we need enough police officers, i.e. more police officers, also so that the police themselves can cope with a huge amount of work and responsibility in the field. In many places, the ability to cope with the police is being tested, and some of them are planning to change the field. That is why I would ask the Minister: are the police's own efforts sufficiently taken into account and will there really be enough resources in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u65	Mr President! It is clear from public tax data that large groups pay group grants abroad to their subsidiaries and parent companies in tax havens and thus transfer their annual profits beyond the reach of the Finnish tax authority — in spite of the fact that the tax deductibility of the group grant is legally bound to the fact that both parties, i.e. the recipient and the entity paying it, are resident in Finland with their registered residences. This same domesticity requirement also applies to cases where another group company has its registered office in another EU country than Finland. So in these respects, this kind of internal market does not work, but must be precisely in Finland. This law currently in force dates back to 1986, i.e. before the free movement of capital in Europe, and there is a loophole in that law that allows a group grant to be paid to a subsidiary or parent company in tax havens. There is one big thing here that would make millions of people integrate when this loophole was blocked. Among other things, the government does have a bill on it — hopefully it will move forward. There is also such a thing that the anti-greek economy group could have dealt with and examined how other countries are paying these group grants, whether they are in force and have changed the law since 1986 in this respect. We haven't changed. Yes, if we have an observatories, the observatories must do their job and see these things go according to what is at present. And on this requirement that these are domestic, it has also been said at EU level that this should be the case, and KHO has also taken a stand on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u66	Mr President! Here, by Mr Kiuru and others, attention has been paid to the important issue of tax planning based on law and what is so aggressive tax planning that it actually leads to tax evasion known to the law. These border crossings are constantly being carried out by the judiciary, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that a few months ago the Supreme Administrative Court made two important decisions in which, after the vote, I recall, in two major and major cases, it considered that the financial arrangements in question were in fact tax evasion. At least the tax authority itself has estimated that, when these policies of the Supreme Administrative Court are followed in similar cases and in similar situations, it is of considerable importance to increase tax revenues. When this Raatikainen task force has been present in the debate, I dare to suggest here that at some point you also include an account of these relatively recent rulings of the Supreme Administrative Court and an assessment of their importance. I believe that these decisions are of great importance to the economic solutions that have already been taken, but above all they will also guide future practice in these relations on a healthy basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u67	Mr President! It immediately occurred to me that we should support Mr Zyskowicz's speech in such a way that it would probably be a good idea now for this Raatikainen task force to meet. You would take this to the agenda to find out how there are so many interpretative situations in Finland today in terms of tax planning and aggressive tax planning, which is contrary to the spirit of the law, and in that respect you would look at these precedents, but on the other hand you would also go through the proposals that have already been made and made in Parliament. There would already be work to do — I think for a few ten hours. In other words, it is not worth avoiding this meeting because the agenda has not come from outside, but I would encourage you to make a bridge in genuine parliamentary cooperation now, from which direction we can take joint action. And yes, these proposals have also come during this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u68	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u69	Mr President! A few more everyday things to discuss when we talk about this good government proposal, which the EU has received kicks and kicks in this government, and that is how it is here in our Parliament, and we will certainly accept it here without the noises of gravel. But what happens to us in this day-to-day life: I am not saying that it is now a representative of the Raatikainen working group, but it is a working group set up by Parliament and chaired by Mr Raatikainen. It is good that such a parliamentary monitoring group is. Here, in fact, the above-mentioned representative The Kiuru constructively pointed out what could be done in a way by the monitoring group. I believe that the problems we have with the financing of terrorism are the opportunities we have under current legislation which have not been addressed. And, of course, it is not the task of the monitoring team — possibly, if this kind of follow-up is done — to act solely on the legislative work of its existing government or what has been done in the past, but now it would be good to make such a comparison. I would like to make one example of the fact that in this country we have a different view of the law-making and preparatory Ministry of Justice than the Prosecutor General as to whether underpaid is a crime or not and whether there is a need to criminalise underpaid employment in this country in general. During the last parliamentary term, Mr Lindtman took this initiative, and I would recall that Mr Tolppanen was also active in this matter. It has not progressed much now, and today a bill has been put forward to the Administrative Committee, which was, of course, announced. But let us hope that this can be addressed. If we take, for example, the Olkiluoto site, where Polish workers are employed: It was found by the occupational safety and health authorities that under the collective agreement they have been paid too low wages. An investigation was carried out and a decision was taken by the prosecution authority not to prosecute. From this the process was further taken forward, and when this came to the point that this matter was on the prosecutor's table, the Prosecutor General stated that the prosecutor had done the right thing because he stated in his explanatory statement that Professor Koskinen had stated that, when all Poles had been discriminated against on an equal footing, it was neither discrimination at work nor the imposition of anti-discrimination taxes. We are creating here, with our own potential, that we have precisely the possibility of avoiding taxes by the fact that some part of the population or workers coming to us are underpaid or some other poor working conditions and receive that tax-free income, and that means that it creates a gap for criminal organisations or for those who want to finance, for example, a terrorist organisation. I repeat what Mr Ihalainen has listed here, which is certainly there within paragraph 21 of the Social Democrats' shadow budget, and these have been vigorously highlighted by the Left Alliance Parliamentary Group as much as we should do in this domestic legislation. There are ways in which we can work: we have seen in the construction sector how good a system has already been created in this country. Now we are faced with the fact that a few months ago we just found out that a worthy and progressive Turku shipyard, the owner of Meyer, has been working on its own to ensure that there is no underpaid but interference, and this kind of company, which again tries to come to the workplace, has been excluded because of this misdemeanour. But now this process, in which there are so many of these chains, needs to be backed up by legislation similar to that which secures this problem in the construction sector, the tax number, and there needs to be a law on subscriber liability. Our metal and technology industries have a lot of long processes where project management is quite impossible because of subcontracting chains without us developing our own legislation. In that sense, I hope that, in this debate on the financing of terrorism, we will see that we have here the domestic problem with which we open the gate without the need for great imagination to use. Where does that opportunity come from? We have a large number of business-barred entrepreneurs who do not work in Finland because they are under a business ban, but work through someone else, from a desk box, to this country. It's just today. It is estimated that there are several thousand businesses in some neighbouring countries — well, we talk about hundreds and thousands — we have entrepreneurs in business who work here from somewhere else. We have read about the receipt shop, it is said, in the case of gangs of vests who are engaged in such a receipt trade, which makes it possible to pay no taxes. Here again, there is no need for a great imagination from a representative when he can calculate that if we want to finance terrorist organisations they are the opportunities that are close to us, which are the temptation, and because they are there in the grey area, we will not be able to seize them. Mr President! With these few examples, I would like the Minister to say, at least with his positive voice from that place, that at least we talked about it and see what we are doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u70	Mr President! I am not going to judge or judge the courts because of my position here and now, but I am saying that underpaid is always to be condemned and must be addressed. It must also apply to workers from abroad and posted workers. We should remember that we have a single permit directive for posted workers, which mainly concerns the social and aid sectors, and this is something that must also be achieved on the labour side. It should be borne in mind that if we have posted workers — as the Poles certainly were — not from third countries but from here — they must be covered by the same collective agreements as we were. The salary must be paid according to the work being done. We need to monitor this. Then we will be equal to men. We cannot be equal if all Poles are paid EUR 2 per hour. It is not equal because we also have Finnish employees who are paid at least
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u71	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u72	President! The plentiful and wide-ranging nature of the debate is a powerful proof of how many problems we really are dealing with. The speeches have been rambling, but the tentacles of this social cancer, if I may say so, extend to the most amazing places and in many ways. All this in this debate is proof of how welcome this legislation is and one must hope and believe that it will be appropriate. But not only do we have good legislation, but we really need genuine investment, focus and willingness to sort this out and tackle these issues, that it does not just remain at the level of the law. And those responsible for clearing up and correcting the situation must have sufficient resources, and data protection must enable living life to move forward, and there must also be sufficient technological equipment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u73	Mr President! Briefly: Thank you to the representatives of Zyskowicz, Krista Kiuru and Myllykoski for their good advice. Of course, we have a mandate in this parliamentary monitoring group for the shadow economy, but even at the first meeting, I remember, instructions were given that tips can be placed directly here for the group — they go to the ministry, but of course they go through us too. We would be happy to take a hint and forward because this is all about our common cause, which, in my opinion, has no political point of view, but is now being fought against crime and the black economy. We are there with an open mind and are happy to accept tips and deliver them further. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u74	Mr President! I think it was a good thing that Mr Raatikainen's crystallization was not to give a signal and a message outside this house now that this was not a matter for Parliament. Do you know that nearly 80 per cent of Finns before the last parliamentary elections felt that the pace needed to be tightened? It would give a rather unusual impression outside this house if we didn't take this on the agenda. It must be remembered that people do not accept it when they do their own business, that there can be a group of great social influences for whom these things are not so important a push-through story. That is why we cannot send a message outside this house that these are not things to be done together. I stress and hope that you will keep these meetings, Mr Raatikainen, and you will have the skills and perspectives of a police officer in these matters. This is the fight against crime when we are talking about highly aggressive tax planning, and there are still a lot of holes and they can be plugged. I believe that the more active you are in bringing these ideas, no minister present would dare to oppose the proposals of the parliamentary working party. And that's lucky that you're going to get a pretty significant role here, if you take it over yourself. We in the opposition encourage you, and you are sure that we will also be able to whip if the pace does not start tightening. In that regard, I think that there is a great deal to be done here, summarum, when you go through our proposals, this grey economy package, which has been prepared under the leadership of the Member of Parliament currently in charge of our Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy: 20 million contributions and 200 million returns. I think it should be of interest to all of us. Go through the package. Also, see what it is possible to do there with regard to these investment insurance policies and also with regard to the loophole of holding companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u75	Mr. Speaker! In addition to the signatory, Mr Raatikainen has, at least in this debate, highlighted these resources — police resources, tax authorities' resources, our legal resources — in the area of large-scale financial crime, or, in this case, the financing of money laundering and terrorist offences. Perhaps this will also serve as a referral to this parliamentary working group, and I encourage my colleague Mika Raatikainen to also address these resources in the working group. I will now only make sure, in this speech, of the President, that the Minister is still answering the questions that have yet to be answered in this debate since the Minister's first reply. At this point, I would also like to hear the answer to these resource questions. Just good will, which, fortunately, can be found in this Chamber on both the right and the left and in the middle, is not enough, but we must move from these objectives and the discussion of the objectives to the discussion of resources on how these tools work in the field of financial investigations, the tax authorities and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u76	Mr President! Yes, resources are at the centre when something is being done about monitoring existing legislation. And if we want officials or police officers to be in the process of preparing, then there is also a question of resources. But when we have this resource debate, we have to take into account the fact that resources are defined on the basis of the control of its existing legislation, and if there is no legislation that will help to eradicate the black economy better and more effectively than this moment, then there is no need for supervisors. We have more than just a police officer as an officer. This is particularly important when it becomes a request for investigation, but it must be remembered that we have this for many generations: we must also have these resources under the authority of the same Ministry, which are the experts in the workplace there. It should not be forgotten that there must be a law and then resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u77	Minister, from the speaking room for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u78	Mr President! First of all, when I promised to respond to the question of why political influence is now being asked, because it has been a matter of some concern here: the obligation is therefore based on a directive, but it is already in the Money Laundering Act for foreigners. At the moment, it is banking and certain insurance products. Now this information is also requested from domestic customers. In addition, we will extend this to the whole insurance sector, not just to these specific products. However, the use of significant influence may involve various opportunities to promote investment and other business activities that may involve money laundering or terrorist financing. The purpose of identifying these persons is also to contribute to the fight against corruption. The intention is to go beyond the fight against money laundering in our proposal. Domestic individuals can exert significant influence across national borders, which is highlighted in the EU. This is one of the factors behind the fact that the EU directive has gone beyond the recommendations of the European region. Some stakeholders have wanted derogations from the obligation. However, this is a requirement for all reporting obligations within the meaning of the Money Laundering Act. The law should treat everyone the same way. It is therefore not appropriate to grant derogations to individual companies. However, the proposal proposes a reduction in identification procedures for certain compulsory, essentially social security-related insurances, such as occupational pension insurance. These are considered to have little to do with money laundering or terrorist financing risks. By contrast, for 20 years, different types of non-life insurance have been considered even to be associated with significant risks of money laundering in Finland. Insurance service providers often offer insurance packages, which means that they will in any case have to draw up identification procedures for influential persons. The proposal also includes a mandate to adopt a Government decree which may provide for other low risk situations, services and products. All groups of obliged entities will therefore be further examined. In short, I will answer these questions — here are some good questions, a short time to answer them. After all, the programme of measures against the shadow economy has been adopted on 7.6. and there are 20 different projects. I thought, in some context, that I would give you a brief overview of the situation, because this fight against the grey economy rose here. It is being followed by a ministerial group on economic policy. They also asked about resources. I agree. This is not a single resource, it is a different authority, and we must also take care of it. These resources added to the police are one way, but this was also the case in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It considered that these resources were already needed by this law for the production of different registers. We talked about tax issues here, they belong to the Treasury Department. I'm sure we'll get back to that. Then there was also talk of cop survival, and it is good to raise it also during the 200th anniversary year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u79	Mr President! During the previous parliamentary term, I was a member of the Audit Committee following this assessment of the number of grey economies. On the basis of the competition, an external executor was chosen, and in the context of its study, the study, I think there may have been quite a large miscalculation because the population that was examined had already been selected in such a way that the tax authority had specific reasons for suspecting that it was in this particular group that such a grey economy might exist. It therefore did not correspond to all taxable persons. Then a so-called external assessor was asked to evaluate the study. 1 billion was estimated by Matti Wiberg, a professor at the Turku Business School, and then the company’s estimate was 7 billion, I think. There was a seven-fold difference. Personally, I believe more in Matti Wiberg, whose assessment was based on objective data.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u80	Minister Risikko, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u81	Mr President! I will tell you about this kind of research: The Police College of Applied Sciences has produced a report entitled "National Risk Assessment of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing 2015". During this legislative project, when this was done, there was enormous criticism as to why we are extending this Finnish law, the national law, beyond the directive. I have just said that — because we have already had non-life insurance and occupational pension insurance in our legislation in previous money laundering laws. That is why we are still keeping them here, even if it goes beyond the directive. And we have had a risk assessment of who, for example, insurance operators themselves have suggested that non-life insurance is one of the opportunities for money laundering, and that is why we keep it here. But I would stress that each product will then be assessed in that regulation and will see where such a streamlined procedure can be carried out. However, I am proud that Finnish legislation, even though it goes beyond the directive, is precisely this fight against money laundering and terrorism, and I am pleased that you too, ladies and gentlemen, have noticed it here this evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u82	Mr President! In a way, as an answer to Mr Lehde, we can each value and draw conclusions as to what kind of research is right. But in some way I believe in the company's own assessments and the original statement and conclusions of the Audit Committee on the parliamentary activities of this Parliament, which have been drawn on the basis of this company's report. And on the basis of this, legislation has been largely developed and focused in this Parliament. At least I do not want to question the fact that the Audit Committee has not drawn the right conclusions and claims that there is a miscalculation of 6 or 7 times the amount of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u83	Mr President! This is important in that a certain amount has been placed on the revenue side of the budget as a result of this check on the informal economy. We'll see how it happens. As far as the shadow economy is concerned, it is clearly a preventive effect and that is a good thing. Instead of this insurance company, you could say that quite a few people who have been on the way have heard stories that the suitcase has disappeared and there were 5 Boss suits and 10 silk ties, but then when it was found unopened, there were not quite so many silk ties and there could have been that there was only a windsuit. In other words, it is quite easy for the public to think that the insurance company can be played a little bit, and in that sense I think that this money laundering opportunity has come to the comments of the insurance companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u84	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u85	Mr President! It is no surprise to anyone that the number of asylum complaints has increased enormously over this year, for example in the Helsinki Administrative Court by around 9,000. It is clear that it will no longer survive this amount. The average time for processing asylum matters at the Helsinki Administrative Court is currently approximately 4.5 months. The average time for dealing with asylum issues has risen rapidly and is expected to increase significantly further if cases are not decentralised. The number of asylum complaints brought before the Helsinki Administrative Court has been estimated to be so high in the future that the average processing time for these complaints would double in 2017 and increase to more than 12 months in 2018. 82 people have been recruited to the Helsinki Administrative Court this year with additional appropriations, but it is understandable that it is difficult to find any more competent judges. Moreover, it is not desirable for the number of judges appointed to be too high in the composition of the Court of Justice. There are many reasons for this, but I will not go into them any further. As the number of cases grows in a single court in a centralised group of cases, the court becomes congested and the length of the hearings is prolonged. In the case of operating space costs, the centralised model has estimated, for example, that Helsinki's premises are approximately EUR 80000 more expensive than the proposed decentralised model. That's a saving too. On the other hand, decentralization reduces the time taken to deal with asylum complaints and saves asylum seekers accommodation and other costs. Accommodation of one asylum seeker at the reception centre costs at least EUR 65 per day. On this basis, it costs approximately EUR 140 million to accommodate 6000 asylum seekers per year, and if the administrative court averaged 6 months, the accommodation cost of 6000 asylum seekers would be approximately EUR 70 million. In fact, the costs would be much higher, because in many places the accommodation costs far exceed that EUR 65 per day. In Helsinki, for example, the most expensive have been EUR 150 and even EUR 200. This information is according to MOT. There were almost 200 euros a day on Sturenkatu. That's a lot of money. The cost savings resulting from the reduction of processing times would therefore easily amount to tens of millions of euros just for accommodation costs. Decentralisation will improve the legal certainty of the parties concerned, as the time for dealing with complaints would be reduced. If the Administrative Court arranges oral hearings, this administrative court is in several cases closer to the party concerned than the Helsinki Administrative Court. It is important for applicants for international protection to have a decision on this matter as soon as possible. Processing times therefore have a direct impact on the legal protection of asylum seekers. The Bar Association has stated that, in terms of legal protection for asylum seekers, it is not in itself relevant to the administrative court in which the asylum appeal is dealt with. According to the Federation, decentralisation is conducive to the diversification of case law and thus to the development of foreign law. In the model of a single court, decision-making is easy to take in order to implement certain internal policies of the administrative court, at the expense of the individual investigation of the case. Furthermore, the need for education cannot be expected to be particularly challenging, as different administrative rights already deal with foreign affairs. Any administrative court to which complaints concerning international protection would be decentralised under the proposal has the capacity to deal with these matters. Mr President! Decentralisation also has the advantage of expanding regionally the recruitment base for additional staff. University of Eastern Finland, University of Lapland, University of Turku all have legal education. The locations of the administrative rights in question in Kuopio and Turku have three courts, the District Court and the Administrative Court in Oulu and the Court of Appeal in Rovaniemi. There are also many lawyers in other areas in cities with a strong concentration of courts, and the recruitment base is therefore wide. Interpreting can also be organised throughout Finland. Now, of course, hindsight is foolish wisdom, but ending the court of Kouvola this year, for example, does not seem to be a very good decision. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u86	Mr President! I visited Laitila's reception center on Monday. I met asylum seekers there, who were mostly young men. I heard their stories about their difficulties in finding their place in this world. Indeed, many asylum seekers paid particular attention in their reports to the strain of waiting for a decision on an asylum application. It is therefore unreasonable to hang asylum seekers in an intermediate state where the decision has to wait for years. It is therefore good that the government is now proposing the decentralisation of asylum complaints to four administrative courts instead of one, the Helsinki Administrative Court. The allocation of complaints to more administrative courts makes it easier to improve the processing speed, i.e. to speed up the processing process. It makes sense to speed up processing times, especially from the point of view of the central government, as it costs approximately EUR 65 per day to accommodate one asylum seeker at the reception centre. The reduction in processing times would therefore result in savings in reception costs, when those who have received a negative decision will then be forced to leave the reception centres. It can also be estimated that the decentralised model will reduce the costs of premises. I therefore welcome this government proposal, and I look forward to hearing it in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u87	Mr President! The decentralisation of complaints concerning international protection to several administrative courts, as proposed by the Government, is well-founded. At the same time, care must be taken to ensure that the administrative courts of Eastern Finland, Northern Finland and Turku have sufficient resources to deal with the increasing workload. The decentralisation of the handling of complaints must ensure that the processing times do not differ significantly in the future, but that asylum seekers receive equal legal treatment irrespective of the place of processing. The determination of the competent administrative right on the basis of the remit of the Asylum Unit of the Finnish Immigration Service makes sense, provided that individual administrative rights are not overburdened. For this reason, continuous and close cooperation between the authorities is very important, as the proposal shows. According to the arguments of the Government's proposal, the Helsinki Administrative Court is about to receive up to 10,000 complaints this year. This is a striking number of complaints, bearing in mind that last year some 32,000 asylum seekers arrived in Finland. Thus, every third asylum seeker complains about the decision. This figure is significant given the number of asylum seekers who have voluntarily returned to their country of origin, leaving the asylum process unfinished. It is clear that we must hold on to the legal protection of everyone. Asylum seekers have the right to appeal against a negative decision; it is good case law. Nevertheless, efforts should be made to reduce the number of complaints and reduce processing times. We need to consider how the Finnish Immigration Service justifies negative decisions for asylum seekers. The asylum process must clearly be improved. It cannot be that the complaint and the handling of the administrative court become part of the normal asylum procedure. The Christian Democrats have taken the view that asylum seekers who have committed crimes could be removed as quickly and effectively as possible. In these cases in particular, the judicial process of expulsions must be speeded up. If a person has received a final judgment for a criminal offence, expulsion must be possible immediately, even if the expulsion decision has been appealed to a higher court and is not yet valid. During the last term of government, Minister Räsänen appealed to the Minister of Justice to speed up the expulsions of administrative rights. At that time it took an average of 517 days for an expulsion case to be dealt with in the administrative court. The implementation of expulsion decisions would be speeded up most effectively and without legal security problems if the handling of complaints in administrative courts were to speed up the current process. In particular, cases that threaten internal security should be prioritised. At present, the protection police's assessment of a person's danger does not accelerate the process of expulsion. The current expulsion legislation has become obsolete. It does not take sufficient account of the problems of increased mobility, such as crime. Under the prevailing law, expulsion is not carried out until it has the force of law. Instead, conversion can be done immediately. One way to remedy this situation would be to implement expulsion immediately or speedily, at least in criminal cases. Nevertheless, despite the expulsion decision, the person still retains the right to appeal. Mr President! In assessing the resources for 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs has also drawn attention to the fact that these rapidly changing situations are very rarely taken into account in the budget, and these are in particular the handling of asylum seekers. It is unreasonable for them too that they may last here in Finland for more than a year and, on the other hand, we see that some people are using this process to stay here for some other reason, and, as we have heard today, there are people in our country who are moving freely among us who have participated in the battles and others in ISIS. President! This should now be tackled more rigorously than we are currently taking up these sections and also directing these resources, so that we can actually achieve efficiency and increase internal security. However, we do not want to violate anyone's legal protection and legal protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u88	Mr President! In Helsinki Administrative Court, the handling of asylum complaints has now become congested. The proposal also proposes that these complaints be dealt with in three other administrative courts: the administrative court of Eastern Finland, the administrative court of Northern Finland and the administrative court of Turku. Decentralisation extends the recruitment base and also prevents asylum issues from forming the main part of the issues to be resolved by the Helsinki Administrative Court. This show's gonna save us a lot of money. The time taken to deal with complaints affects the accommodation costs of asylum seekers at the reception centre. In this respect, the proposal has been estimated to represent considerable savings. On the other hand, the change does not entail any significant additional costs. The purpose of this proposal is to maintain reasonable time limits for dealing with asylum complaints in the administrative court. This proposal is a good one and is now responding to this need. Personally, I think that we should more and more go like this in Switzerland according to the model. There is a very good immigration policy if we take into account the fact that there are many foreigners there but that integration has been successful. For example, if you commit a serious violent crime there, you will receive automatic expulsion without the right to appeal. In addition, you must live in the country for about 12 years so that you can apply for citizenship. Then the city will vote on whether or not the city will feel that it has adapted. In other words, if you want to stay in Switzerland and you want to have citizenship, you are forced to adapt. Of course, it is not enough for the city to vote in favour of your citizenship, but then to go to Canton and then to Skull Level. We should learn from such successful immigration policies, and Switzerland is an excellent example of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u89	Mr President! Long process times, processing times, in these areas of asylum are a problem. They are, above all, a problem for this asylum seeker, because in practice he will have to spend several months at least in an intermediate state where he does not know what will happen to his application. But of course long processing times are also a problem for Finnish taxpayers, because when processing times are prolonged, housing costs and others are increasing. Therefore, this proposal, which contributes to reducing the processing times for these asylum applications, is a good one. It is natural that asylum seekers who receive a negative decision from the Finnish Immigration Service should seek an appeal to the administrative court. Of course, the fact that an appeal is sought does not in itself indicate that the decision taken by the Finnish Immigration Service is incorrect. On the contrary, I have the impression that the decisions and policies of the Finnish Immigration Service have remained fairly well in the complaint rate. In other words, our system is not a system where decisions are quickly shrugged in the Finnish Immigration Service and errors in the administrative court are corrected, but our system is, as it should be, that: The Finnish Immigration Service always seeks the right result, but the applicant has the right to appeal to the Administrative Court in accordance with his or her legal security.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u90	Mr President! About a year ago, the government adopted this programme of measures for immigration policy, and this is actually a certain continuum of it. In view of these court processes and compositions and processing times, the government submitted that government proposal last year 32 and it came into force now in August of this year — excuse me, I think it was Government proposal 32/2016, which now entered into force in August — which reduced these appeals periods under the Aliens Act to 30 days from the Finnish Immigration Service’s decision, to 21 days. Similarly, the composition of the administrative court was changed. The main rule is the composition of three members. There has always been an exception in the past for smaller formations in certain cases, and these complaints under the Aliens Act can now be dealt with in a two-member composition and in certain urgent cases also as a single member. This is a continuum in that sense. That same government proposal was also accompanied by a limitation of legal aid in the asylum interview. In other words, as a rule, people of adult age will only receive legal aid for the asylum interview for a specific reason, with the exception of minors. These were then the subject of a lengthy debate in the Constitutional Committee and were subject to constitutionally restricted amendments. Furthermore, if we consider this whole, that these are now being dispersed into more administrative courts, it is very good if we look at the number of cases in 10,000 — there should be other issues. It puts the legal security of others at risk if the court is congested enormously. However, if the Constitution requires that cases be brought before a competent court or authority without undue delay, it cannot be that one group of cases, as a matter of urgency, passes by everyone. Each case is just as important when it comes to itself. I myself have also served as a lawyer in a private company, in my own office and in a law firm as a lawyer, and a very small case seems very important to a person, and it is terrible if you have to wait because of congestion. It is very good that we share this burden. And now that Mr Laukkanen's speech has brought up the final judgments and expulsion, I will say a few words about it. A few times in that social media, I've been talking about it. On Saturday the news had such a thing on Yle that we were considering these undocumented services in the future. I get the impression that, at least when there is a final judgment and a decision that you have not received a residence permit and are expelled — both of them legally — we should not discuss in the long term what kind of services we are going to provide for a person. We should start thinking about how these people follow our legitimate decisions, because it also undermines the vision of the ordinary person: why should he follow the lawful decisions, not all of them have to follow them? I understand, of course, that accommodation facilities are properly organised and, for example, acute health care and food while this return process is completed, but it cannot be that we create a system here, as it were, that a person simply chooses that I do not follow these decisions and that is it. It sometimes comes to mind that we then cross the entire Finnish law book, that there are people who choose what decisions they follow, and some do not follow. It is not equal if you think, however, that we have a fairly law-abiding people who want to abide by the law, and at least it does not help. In that sense, I would also like to see some discussion here in Parliament. People find it very confusing that, in a certain way, we allow this, and then in some cities, of course — my own municipality of Hyvinkää has not made such proposals — there is a great deal of concern about how we are now going to provide these kinds of permanent services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u91	All right, there might be a need for a little debat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u92	Mr President! This is where Congressman Meri raised the issue of undocumented health care. I would remind you that the Finnish Medical Association has stated that health care for the undocumented is part of their medical ethics and should be introduced everywhere, especially for the weaker, such as pregnant women and children. After all, Helsinki has set a good example here, and now the City Board of Espoo has also voted on the matter on the basis of a council initiative. I find it very regrettable that last season, in the last few metres, the bill on undocumented health care, the government's proposal at the time, fell. Now would be the time to remedy this deficiency and the government to bring a new proposal to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u93	Mr President! I will continue with what Mr Karimäki started with. In other words, when we talk about health care for the undocumented, I would like to stress that it is also in the interest of us who have these papers that, for example, there will be no infectious diseases in Finland that could pose a public health threat to us. In other words, the health care of the undocumented, when it is guaranteed in its most necessary form, protects our public health, protects our internal security, and it also protects our Finns' ability to live decently here. That does not mean that we are giving birth to some new so-called attraction factor. Even in Finland today, we do not offer everything, so to speak, for doctors who do healthcare for the undocumented. This is the most necessary aid. And that is also our interest — it will safeguard our health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u94	Mr President! The representative Meri wanted to discuss those who have applied for international protection in Finland who have received a final negative decision on their application and who have legally decided to convert Finland but who still refuse to leave Finland. They declare that they do not want to comply with Finnish law and Finland’s final judgments, and they remain in Finland illegally. In my opinion, it is quite clear that such people also have the most necessary, urgent health care, as well as the food and protection needed to protect life from frost, but it is just as clear that they cannot be entitled to the same kind of social security as they are.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u95	Mr President! I certainly did not expect to be debated on the issue of undocumented health care, but when that happened, I would like to defend the work that we did quite properly last season on the basis of this bill. We must remember that this group of undocumented people, which we are talking about here, contains very different people. Not everyone is the same group, in which Mrs Zyskowicz, for example, has...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u98	Mr President! I am well aware of the doctor's views on this, but it is the legislator's job to lay down the framework conditions. We cannot, of course, fall on the ethics of the doctor and on his neck, but it is our job here to resolve it. However, I would like to remind you of what the public debates are like when they say that people cannot be left out: we have a huge number of homeless people. For example, Hyvinkää and Helsinki have brought up this container residence. I myself have seen a container apartment like this at Hyvinkää Housing Fair, and it was a very functional and sought-after model. It seems that there is a little attitude towards it that they would rather be on the streets than in containers, these homeless people in Finland. Let us also remember this aspect in the debate that we will then take everyone on an equal footing. - That's all I got.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u99	And now back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u100	Mr President! — on the subject to which the draft law refers. First of all, Mr President, I think that although it may be a technical change in someone's mind, I would, of course, have liked the rapporteur to have been able to be present when these questions are raised here. Like many others, I would like to stress that legal protection for asylum seekers also requires that solutions be made as quickly as possible, and surely this decentralisation is one way of speeding up these processes, which is therefore also a good objective for asylum seekers. What I want to draw attention to is how we can ensure this knowledge in these different administrative courts when this decentralisation is done. This bill does describe the fact that there will also be this need for training in certain areas. Then, Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it has been said here about this entry into force that this is very urgent and I would like to see the committee now, in its own work, consider whether there should be any further change to this point. In addition, there is also the wish from the Administrative Court side that things that are very well prepared and in a specific place should be spent there in the same place and not go back and forth with them. President! Then I would like to remind you, just as Mr Laukkanen has already said here, that there is, of course, also a responsibility here for the decision-making authority, in this case the Finnish Immigration Service, how these decisions are presented so that the applicants understand the arguments to which they refer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u101	Mr President! This Government proposal aims to ensure that in future complaints concerning international protection will be dealt with not only in Helsinki but also in the administrative courts of Eastern Finland, Northern Finland and Turku, when the decision of the primary decision maker, the Finnish Immigration Service, is not satisfied. The influx of asylum tourists that, unfortunately, we were burdened and burdened with last year should have been stopped at the borders under the Dublin Agreement. It was a serious and costly mistake to let a division of people into Finland, mostly young men, who came to occupy this country, which we know little about and who have no right to stay in our country. The majority are not entitled to asylum, but they are also difficult to call immigrants, because immigrants are going to work, migrants have a desire and a capacity to work. Mr President! In recent years, approximately 1100 to 1200 complaints concerning international protection have been received at the Helsinki Administrative Court. This year, almost 8,000 complaints have been produced and by the end of the year, 10,000 are closer. The explanatory statement of this proposal states that the number of foreign cases in the Helsinki Administrative Court is becoming the majority of the total number of customers in the Court, based on the forecasts of the number of complaints. I would see that this is a startling prediction. So in the future, foreign affairs will take up most of the matters of the Helsinki Administrative Court. When it comes to the Finnish judiciary, should it not primarily serve us Finns, handle and deal with our affairs? Is it now that when foreign affairs congest and overburden our legal and other systems, the native population is allowed to wait for God knows how long? Mr President! The explanatory statement states that efforts must be made to curb the increase in processing times in order to ensure legal certainty for asylum seekers and the smooth functioning of the decision-making process. The important reason why we need to curb the growth of processing times is money. The longer these people stay here, the more expensive it will be for the Finnish taxpayer's purse. The proposal is good in that four administrative courts will certainly be able to take decisions more quickly than one, and hopefully they will be mostly negative. Personally, I would be prepared to ban the appeal altogether, so the decision of the Finnish Immigration Service would be final without the right to appeal. Mr President! Australia was mentioned here, including Huhtasaari. Australia and New Zealand do not allow asylum tourists to enter their land. The beans are directed to the island of Nauru and Papua New Guinea, and the arrivals in the camps there wait until their paperwork has been processed. A similar model should also be introduced as a matter of urgency. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u102	Mr President! The Government's proposal under discussion, in which the Parliament is amending the Aliens Act so that these complaints in immigration matters can be dealt with elsewhere than in the Helsinki Administrative Court, is quite good and well-founded. In addition, matters should be dealt with by the administrative court of Eastern Finland, the administrative court of Northern Finland and the administrative court of Turku. It is a good thing that this processing base is extended, that there are more courts to deal with these complaints made by the authorities regarding entry decisions. After all, the Finnish case-law includes jurisdiction, and it is also constitutionally the case-law that everyone in this country has the right to have a decision on his own case within a reasonable period of time, to appeal against that decision and also to receive a judgment on the matter which will then be final in due course, and also that judgment within a reasonable period of time. After all, Finland has received many reprehensible decisions in the Court of Human Rights that we have cases of excessive length. Someone might hum on it. It has nothing to do with this matter, but, for example, in some cases, environmental permits, even though the peat pick-up permits have been delayed for up to 8 to 9 years. It cannot be in line with the case law or with human dignity to have to wait so long for a decision. The same applies to these matters of residence: when a person receives a decision and complains about that decision, it must be a decision within a reasonable period of time. And when Mrs Zyskowicz mentioned the cases in which a person has received a negative decision on an entry permit and therefore has to be removed from the country, it goes without saying that, once the court has given a final decision in the matter, the authority must also act in such a way that the decision is enforced. It's obvious. An independent nation protects itself by using its own laws and by passing judgments on the law, which can then be appealed against. And after the last complaint, the sentence will be executed. It is worth remembering all the people who complain that we are doing this... I am sure there is a person who criticises this, too, but it is worth remembering that we, as the rule of law, are committed to the respect of the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as to the principles defined by the UN, how people should be treated, how courts operate and so on. We are committed to those decisions and we must act accordingly. It should be remembered that when in 2015 more than 30,000 foreign people came to this country, whose affairs were being dealt with by the authorities, and, of course, after these proceedings with the authorities, this appeal procedure came and then the courts issue decisions on these matters, it is also right for these people to have the speed and the final decisions to be brought into this process within a reasonable period of time. It is true that we will never make it in this country, nor will we in the Finnish Parliament come to an agreement on what is the right timetable, whether we act quickly enough or whether things go too long. There will never be an agreement on this. What is important is that that reasonable time is reached and then the judgments, whatever they may be, will also be enforced. If anyone still thinks today that this government proposal before us will solve matters far into the future, it is likely to be wrong because no one knows what will happen in the world, for example, in five years' time. We have a huge number of crises around the world at the moment, and we do not know what is happening there, what is the refugee situation in five years' time. But in any case, it is important that we do our own business properly, that people who come into the country get a legal decision from the authorities and then there is that complaint round afterwards. It also protects this Finnish society so that our legal system works, the authorities carry out their duties as stated in Finnish law. Above all, it also lays the foundations for us to send out the message that Finland is acting in accordance with the rule of law, respect for the European Convention on Human Rights and the UN resolutions. There can be no other way, because everything else will then cause us problems and create an uncertain situation and no one will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u103	Mr President! Improving and rationalising the functioning of the judiciary is certainly necessary, and it is also worth doing when foreign affairs are at stake. It has been pointed out here that it is a shame to have to wait for decisions in congested justice systems, and that is quite true, it is. I would also say, however, that it may be even more regrettable to have to return to a country where torture and death even occur. Helsingin Sanomat published today a commendable article on what had happened to some young men who returned from Finland to Iraq. Some of them had been tortured, some had died. This was just a scratch of what happens when we apply Finland’s foreign policy for 2016. Iraq is such a country that it is not in full war, like Syria, and in that sense it is partly in a somewhat grey area when we look at the grounds for international protection, but the situation there is not much more rosy than Syria, for, according to the UN, in October alone, more than 1100 civilians died violently in Iraq. Another site, IraBodyCount,reports on a Tuplast larger. This year, more than 14,000 civilians have died as victims of violence — 14,000 civilians in this country, which Finland classified as safe. In other words, when we consider here that foreign law must be put in place to ensure that our system and bureaucracy work as effectively as possible, I would also like us to remember that this is a much more important and larger international issue than what often comes up in this Chamber. The solution to these international problems would be, for example, a supranational binding decision-making process, but Finland has not wanted to go along with it either because of the voluntary record of the government programme written in good weather. I hope it's pragmatic like this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u104	Mr President! Mr Huovinen drew attention to the fact that the decision-making authorities were obliged to take high-quality decisions and to ensure that the parties concerned understood the reasons for the decisions. That is, of course, the case, and that is how the Finnish Immigration Service works. The fact that, in practice, every negative decision is appealed to the administrative court does not indicate that those decisions are of poor quality or that they are ill-written, but indicates that it is entirely humanly understandable and natural for negative decisions to be complained of because there is no cost risk for this appellant and he has nothing to gain, which means that he cannot lose anything by complaining about it. This must be understood and acknowledged to the Finnish Immigration Service that it has done well under very difficult circumstances. As far as these foreign nationals who are illegally resident — I am speaking, Mrs Huovinen, it is about them — this is a situation in which a person has received a valid negative decision, he has no legal right to reside in Finland; on the contrary, he has a valid decision to convert, but he refuses to leave the country. No one in a civilised state such as Finland should and cannot be abandoned. That is why all people need urgent health care and, if necessary, life - protecting food and shelter from frost. But the idea that we would be obliged to give these illegal residents the same social security as in the country
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u105	President! This is an extremely clear proposal which responds to the current situation. This is a line of reasoning. It is true that if everything were focused on the Helsinki Administrative Court, for example, there would be less space costs, but then that knowledge and emphasis would also be focused on Helsinki, and it is good that this knowledge and emphasis should be disseminated so that Helsinki does not come into a situation where it deals in practice only with issues related to this problem. Overall, the proposal improves legal certainty and is also in line with international agreements. It is not appropriate to set up a special court for this purpose. Mr President! In this context, I cannot fail to say that the fact that this proposal was not adopted is one of the things of the last parliamentary term that you can rightly be proud of. Of course, it is clear that everyone needs the most necessary treatment and nothing goes beyond the ethics of a doctor when the doctor's task is to protect life in all circumstances, but, as Mrs Zyskowicz rightly said, it is not possible for everyone to be covered by the same kind of social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u106	Mr President! As Mr Meri mentioned, this bill to decentralise the handling of complaints concerning international protection to four administrative courts is indeed a step in a long series of government immigration policy reforms to make asylum decisions more reasonable. In line with the proposal adopted earlier this year, the composition of administrative rights was reduced to two members in the case of complaints covered by the Aliens Act and, among other things, the time limits for lodging complaints have been reduced. As has been shown on several occasions during the budget readings, the cost of immigration has increased as a result of the migration crisis last autumn and since then and is now at least in the order of EUR 1 billion. They are likely to be clearly greater than this. This proposal also estimates savings of at least tens of millions of euros, which I consider to be a very good thing, and this will also help to reduce the central government deficit — a deficit which I myself, with many other representatives, have been very concerned about in this Chamber. Mr President! In the past, Mr Meri also raised the issue that Finland's laws should be respected and that it also applies to decisions on expulsion that have the force of law. I am in complete agreement with Mr Mere. In my opinion, too, there must be a great deal of concern about law-abiding and its maintenance and will have to be given strong attention in the future. I am also in line with the representatives of the Finns who have spoken in this Chamber today that our immigration policy still needs to be stepped up. The Swiss and Australian models have today been mentioned in a positive spirit, and their
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u107	Värderade Talman! Mr Hakkarainen mentioned his own reform plans with regard to our judicial system and practice. I hope the group does not share these views. There has been talk of the congestion of the courts. Well, why is this? The Committee on Administrative Affairs was on its way to the Mediterranean region some time ago and there we discussed with a representative of the European Union Agency for Asylum, who showed us the percentage of acceptance of Iraqi asylum seekers in Europe in general, more than 50%, and what it is in Finland, less than 15. We were embarrassed to find this out there, and we had no explanation for that. Not only in Finland, but also in the rest of Europe. So if one wonders why there are so many complaints, perhaps we should look at this whole decision process. Are these matters being assessed correctly, or perhaps is there political guidance because of this very big change? It's dropped from 80 to 15% in a year. Congressman Zyskowicz said that when you complain, you can't lose anything. Today, among other things, we have read in the paper that if you do not choose, you can lose much more. They don't complain about these things for fun. A lot of these are in need of a real asylum. They need protection, and we should see that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u108	Mr President! It is easy to agree with those views of Mr Adlercreutz. I would also like to return to this decision-making process, the decisions of the Finnish Immigration Service. It is quite clear that this crisis has led to a very great deal of work being done by the Finnish Immigration Service. It is true that, in many situations, this good system of ours has been able to cope with this crisis in a great way. But, for example, the messages from within the Finnish Immigration Service — which have said that decisions must be taken at too high a pace, too high a workload — and it is still as if we have been given the impression of what decisions should be taken — and we cannot, I suppose — take these messages very seriously in this House, and also take them a little European-wide. President! Then I would like to say that it bothers me whenever we talk about this immigration, that it makes me feel a little bit like it, that there is a lot of guidance to be given and that is what we should have done and that we should have done it differently last autumn, but then very little can be said, President, that we should have done what we should have done. They're pretending we shouldn't have let these people come to us. What choice would that have been?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u111	Mr President! The congestion of courts and the prolonged handling of cases is a very big problem for everyone, both for the general population and for asylum seekers. It is good that, according to the government's proposal, the handling of complaints concerning international protection will be decentralised. I think it makes sense. Resources should be used correctly and efficiently. I think that, where effective integration of asylum recipients is important, I think it is important, in addition to this, to remove quickly those who have received negative decisions, particularly those with criminal, Isis or other backgrounds. I do not think it is right for such people to remain in the country with the appeal process. In other words, effective, more effective integration for those who want it, in other words for all who have been given asylum. In this context, I was surprised at some point when we were talking about integration: I do not remember whether it was two or four hours a week of study for these asylum recipients, but I would think that if you start thinking about learning a language or studying culture, each asylum seeker should spend at least four hours a day on such matters, learning a language, learning a culture, and so on. In other words, there is certainly greater efficiency in this issue of integration. But it must be accompanied by the necessary, necessary treatment, of course, for all those in need, whether there are papers or not, of course, this is the view of a humanist doctor. But at the same time: the rapid removal of criminals from the country to those with a negative decision. I believe that this type of policy is an efficient use of resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u112	Mr President! It is absolutely essential that Finland adheres to all international agreements and then, on the basis of these, creates its own case law on which matters are dealt with. We must not go into a situation where Finnish case law would somehow violate human rights. But we are a small nation, and we must keep it in our own line so that we set the laws ourselves, the court will deal with the complaints and then the judgments will be executed. There must not be a situation in the country where someone imagines that Finland is such a country, whose borders are, as it were, open. We must ensure that the systems in this country are also maintained and, above all, decisions are made in a firm and timely manner. We have a worrying line in Finnish case law — not these issues of residence permits, but in general this court procedure of Finnish society: Finland is becoming an administrative justice society. We will soon be able to complain about almost all possible issues, things standing in administrative courts. Despite the fact that hundreds of laws are passed per year in Parliament, this will result in a huge number of cases congested with administrative rights, and social development itself will not be able to move forward. One or two drunks per municipality are enough to stop all possible projects from planning. This is a phenomenon in which I believe the Finnish Parliament should intervene hard, because it cannot be so and there is no democracy that one or two drunkards stop the whole system, even though 98 or 99 per cent of residents or residents want something else. It's not democracy. It's anarchy. This is not really part of this issue of residence permits, but I brought this up because we have been going towards such a society all along. There must be rights of appeal, but they must also be proportionate to what the matter is. With regard to human rights, let us not compromise anything, let us make fair and correct decisions and let them be followed. Then what Mr Zyskowicz mentioned about helping undocumented people:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u113	Mr President! This Government's proposal to amend the Aliens Act makes such a change that the handling of complaints concerning international protection is further decentralised from Helsinki's administrative law to three other administrative courts. This proposal itself is acceptable in order to speed up the processing times, but the background is that Finland should look at the return policy again and from a more humane perspective. Representative Parviainen described well the situation that people have actually been returned from Finland to Iraq and that they have been abused, even killed, there. Now that the world has been faced with the war in Syria and with the huge refugee crisis, the Commission has brought forward new approaches, such as the solidarity of EU countries in sharing common burdens, to agree on common quotas. This would be in the interests of Europe as a whole, but also of Finland. We must remember that under international agreements, people have the right to escape persecution and war and to seek protection. People have the right to seek refuge in Europe. It is truly regrettable that the government has taken the path of making access to the safety of children and women more difficult, of making family reunification more difficult, of raising the limits of earnings excessively high. There has also been extensive consultation in the Committee on the EU-Turkey Agreement, and I must say that the human rights situation in Turkey is so weak that we cannot push asylum seekers and refugees.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u114	Mr President! Indeed, since 98 C.E., these asylum issues and procedures have been centralised in Helsinki. When a person seeking asylum does not have a municipality of residence in Finland, it has not been justified, for example, that, according to this location, these proceedings should be carried out, and it will not be appropriate to do so in the future, but decentralisation to different courts is worth doing in accordance with this proposal. This has a wide range of implications. For these applicants for protection, it is important that decisions are taken as quickly as possible and that processing times have a direct impact on the legal protection of asylum seekers. Decentralisation would also reduce these congestions, which have accumulated significantly in Helsinki, and this would ensure legal certainty for the appellant, even in the sense that sufficiently experienced judges with solid experience in administrative practice and foreign affairs would be involved. Of course, this is partly due to the fact that: A lot of new people have now had to be recruited in Helsinki, and decentralisation would guarantee that there would be people in longer-term positions dealing with these issues. After all, the number of complaints has been expected to increase, and this year it is expected that around 10,000 complaints will come out of which 3,000 will be dealt with. 7,000 would then move on to next year, and next year there will be 7,000 new ones. The opinions on this proposal have been very positive. None of the commentators have objected to decentralisation; only resources and training have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u115	Mr President! Here, when I have listened to a few speeches, there has been a feeling that the Finnish legislator has now passed almost anti-human rights laws and decisions in Migri are also a little questionable. I wouldn't go on this line. Similarly, when the SDP announced that there were no alternatives, and there is a bit of such a disapproving atmosphere when this immigration is discussed: these basic Finns, when they talk about these things... But I would remind everyone that, for example, President Niinistö, with the ear of the spring, courageously took this issue into the debate. You will remember the opening of the Parliaments, where he said about refugees and these challenges. In my opinion, Niinistö spoke quite boldly when she said: "In practice it will be done so that everyone who can say the word 'asylum' will have access to asylum in Europe and Finland." It goes on to say: 'Europe will not last much longer for uncontrolled international migration'. Furthermore, Niinistö says: 'Europe is seeking a solution to the balance. Now many governments do it on their own, and only in their own way or to make threats or to frighten them. At some point, someone will have to recognise that we are not able, right here and now, to fulfil all the obligations of international agreements." Agreements in the world can also be changed — it does not mean that when we have done something in the '50s, it is this way and that is it. Of course, the world changes. We have to think about rational solutions. However, the situation is that we have not been able to resolve the fact that there will also be people seeking a better life with these people in real need, and that is precisely the unnecessary cost to us in that, because they will not receive that asylum. And I do not doubt at least that we have an official machinery so bad that it makes almost illegal decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u116	Congressman Hakkarainen. — You can reserve your speeches with a P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u117	Mr President! When the name was mentioned, I then took the floor. Mr Huovinen, we are in a common Europe now. But what has happened here when there is this sort of uncontrolled immigration and their chilling is in everyone's hands? Brexit's here. What happened in the U.S.? It's Trump. What will happen in France, for example?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u124	Mr President! The bill must be supported because it is possible to speed up the handling of these complaints in a humane way and in all respects by dividing them from Helsinki's administrative right to three other administrative courts, Eastern Finland, Northern Finland and Turku. On this complaint, on which one of the representatives spoke: unfortunately, this was the case. [Second Vice-President Arthur Satonen : Vice-President Paatero. I would ask that we take the other discussions outside the Chamber. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u127	Mr President! I would also like to point out that, even though this is now a process of decentralising governance and thus seeking to increase regional justice, without a significant increase in resources for the coming years for these administrative seats, these issues will not be dealt with any sooner.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u128	Mr President! Mr Meri deplored the speeches that had been made here, referring to the kind of asylum and foreign policy that is being pursued in Finland at the moment. At least I do not think that any of us want to blame the officials who are doing this difficult job, but I want to draw attention to the whole policy that is being taken in this country. It also involves such practical, pragmatic issues relating to the way in which the administrative court operates, which clarify bureaucracy. But when you look at the whole, it sends out the message very clearly that Finland's primary objective is to make it possible for as few people as possible to be protected from Finland. This has been said out loud many times in the programmes of the Finns. This is what they've been talking about for years. Now we are looking for different ways of fulfilling the obligations of these agreements, but not more than a million, in accordance with international agreements. It is a race to the bottom, and it is part of the movement that Mr Hakkarainen rightly refers to the political turmoil and crises that exist in Europe, the rise of populism. We have also received our share of this in Finland. When we look at what has been done with legal aid, what has been done with family reunification, what is done with income support, the lists of safe countries now on top of the cake — we made Iraq a safe country overnight, even though more than 14,000 civilians have died there this year — these are political decisions. Those officials who do the practical work will follow the line that you, in the government, define by means of these political decisions. It's honest to say it out loud. Mr Hakkarainen has said this many times, and I respect him for that, but it is dishonest that it is hypocritical and it is claimed that there is a human rights policy here, when there is actually a policy of opposition to foreigners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u129	Mr President! Whereas the name was mentioned: This is not about any policy against foreigners. It is just that we do not want any terrorist organisations or bombings here, but a safe country where we can live and live. If foreigners come here, 100,000 Chinese, I say welcome, and everyone goes to work right away, they won't be hanging around the squares. As far as populism is concerned, there is no populism in this house other than peer populism. It is practiced on this side and this side is currently doing justice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u130	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u131	Mr President! This government proposal relates to how Finland operates when the so-called structural deficit of the economy exceeds the medium-term objective of 0.5% as defined in the Stability and Growth Pact, and the mandatory correction mechanism must come into force. It was on this matter and the corrections made by Finland that the Commission sent a shepherd letter to Minister Orpo the other day. In practice, Commissioner Katainen sent a message to Finland some time ago that you should put the Finnish economy in order when it was so bad after Prime Minister Katainen. The main objective of the proposal is to amend the fiscal law so that the discretion of the Government is reduced as to when it is required to report to Parliament on the deviation from the objectives of the medium-term structural balance under the Stability and Growth Pact and whether it is obliged to make a public statement when the National Audit Office declares that the provisions of the fiscal law have not been complied with. In practice, therefore, this reform will increase the automation of compliance with the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact and reduce the discretion of the Government. According to the Government's proposal, the proposed changes would support the rule-based management of fiscal policy. Mr President! If the starting point is — as I do — and last season the Finns of Peru still had — that these economic discipline conditions are not justified, it is not a good thing to add an executive vending machine. It narrows the power of the parliament, it narrows the power of the government, including the power of the fundamental Finnish ministers. However, according to its guidance for 2015, the Commission allows flexibility to the limits of the Stability and Growth Pact, but only under certain conditions. And Finland has requested these flexibilitys, referring to structural reforms and investment, and the deficit is not likely to increase beyond that 3% threshold, at least substantially. It would have been interesting to see that if Minister Soini had taken the position of Minister, which he was offered, as Minister of Finance, now as Minister of Finance, he would be begging the Commission for some room for manoeuvre and, bearing in mind the speeches made by the Finns of Peruvian origin during the last period, this change has been quite shocking. Mr President! The limits of the Stability and Growth Pact in the EU have been exceeded repeatedly and at least at some point by most countries. Finland is still an exception, and the share of debt in GDP, just over 60%, remains well below the euro area average of over 90%. However, in cases where sanctions have been taken, there have been far greater deficits. So it really is not an absolute limit, but it seems that although it is not an absolute limit, the Finns of Peru are content with these limits and are giving away a large part of national discretion. The fact that Finland’s economy is in this situation shows that the government’s policy of cutting and curing has not worked. The economy has not grown, unemployment is high, inequality has increased, and, in the longer term, key education, research and development efforts have been reduced, and worst of all: although all these have been done, central government debt is not growing. Still, the government wants to adjust more. The alternative to the Left Alliance is that we would increase its debt by EUR 600 million, but we would invest in one-off measures in support of growth and employment, which would stimulate new growth. It must be borne in mind that the limits of the Stability and Growth Pact are (a) completely artificial and (b) quite absurd in terms of the pursuit of sound fiscal policies. Even the economic papers considered to be right-wing already speak of the need for expansive fiscal policies in the countries where this is possible and in Finland it would be possible. The concept of a structural deficit is highly artificial, and many economists feel that such a deficit cannot be determined in any way, because everything always depends on the decisions that have been taken. The structural deficit is backward. If decisions are taken now that bring the economy to a greater growth path, all retrospective assessments will lose their meaning. Mr President! Let me remind you: during the last period, we opposed the EU's economic discipline agreement, together with the Finns of Peru, and night by night. And what has happened now when the Finns of Peru want to accept one of the decisive movements that further reduces Finland’s national mobility? Is it the case, as the Swedish Democrats have done in the neighbourhood, that there is nothing left for them but refugee policy and riding on it, but everything else is for sale?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u132	Mr President! I was gonna get out of here. — The Finns of Peru have not come to the point of being very pro-European and signing these agreements. When Finland joined the EU, these problems arose. And now that Lake Musta is blaming us for the turn of the coat, so to speak: we have not turned the coat anywhere, only Mr Tolppanen has turned his coat. We are the defendants of the guarantee paper you wrote last season. That paper would not have been signed if the Finns of Peru had been in the government, certainly not. Now we just have to stick to them as long as that bill has been paid, and it is likely that there will be 30 more years left to pay. That I thank the previous government and the left for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u133	Mr President! Mr Hakkarainen did speak rather talentedly of the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u136	Mr President! I've had to accept it a little bit. But what would that world be like, what does that Lake Mustajärvi represent or the party he represents? There must have been such a community in North Korea, in the former Soviet Union, in Eastern Europe as he represents, and the economy certainly works, and those principles appear to be just like they were there at the time. It's the comrade populism.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u141	Well, it's pretty far from the theme itself, but it's still representative Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u142	Mr President! I am not going to continue this debate indefinitely, especially when it is at least by Mr Hakkarainen who sails anywhere in the world. What I said about this continuation of the Economic Discipline Agreement, which was opposed by the Finns as one man and woman in the last period, as I did: now the difference is that the Finns do not oppose, I continue to oppose, and if it is said which one has been more consistent, then I have been consistent in it. Undisputedly, this government proposal, when it comes to the matter, binds Finland's national margin, binds the Government's margin of manoeuvre. This adherence to the guidelines becomes a necessity and a guideline, and then it means that a greater proportion of economic policy discretion has been given to the European Union and by no means the national room for manoeuvre that should be exercised, given that Finland is a country, an economy of its own kind within the European Union. We have room for manoeuvre, and that is why we should look at the national margin in a healthy way at how we make a sensible economic and employment policy, but it seems to the people of Peru that economic and employment policy wisdom lives in the European Union and not in the national decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u143	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u144	Mr President! We are dealing with a government proposal concerning libraries and, in particular, public libraries. This bill replaces the current library law, which dates back to 99 C.E. The role and importance of libraries have changed considerably since the entry into force of the current law. Libraries are not just places where they borrow material. More and more libraries have become involved in tasks involving learning, providing a place to meet, providing a hobby budget. In 2000, for example, there were 436 municipalities and now there are 297 municipalities, and this environment has changed considerably, as have the demographic trends in the provinces. First of all, the importance of libraries: It is hardly possible to overemphasize the importance of our excellent library network. Libraries have a direct link to important issues, which I am sure everyone attaches great importance to, such as freedom of expression, democracy, literacy, media literacy, source criticism, issues of this kind that have now clearly increased their significance in recent years, as this media environment has also changed. Some picks from this bill: First of all, there will be no charge. Libraries are also basic and local services in the future, the use of materials is free of charge, the quote is free of charge and booking is also free of charge. There has been a small margin of interpretation in the current law, and the Deputy Chancellor of Justice has also given its own decision that reservation must be free of charge, but it is somewhat vaguely written in the law and is therefore clarified and clarified. Rights: Citizens have a lot of rights when they talk about the use of libraries, but there is also a desire to put some obligations on this law at the level of the law. For example, a quote ban is possible if the person has not returned the material he has previously borrowed. This seems quite natural to the common sense right now. As a heavy sanction, a ban on the use of the library is possible, at most for 30 days on a library-by-library basis, if the library has not behaved properly. This, too, makes sense when you think of the right of other users to use this fine opportunity in an undisturbed and upbuilding way. There is an interesting point about cooperation in Article 11 and it provides, or rather proposes, for the public library to cooperate with the authorities, library operators and other entities in order to carry out the tasks referred to in this law. This is all right in itself, nothing in itself, but perhaps you could think in committee that this is, as it were, from the point of view that the public library can cooperate with some. It could also be said that cooperation can also come from another body, such as a special library. Perhaps it would be better to say that the evaluation of cooperation should be carried out in cooperation with these actors and not from just one actor. - Do I have five minutes or how much? [Second Vice-President Arthur Satonen : The principle is 10 minutes. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u147	Mr President! I welcome the update and reform of the library law. Important aspects of this reform include the maintenance of free access to public libraries, different definitions and updates of tasks, as well as the obligation of municipalities — and hopefully also sufficient opportunities — to continue to organise high-quality public library services. It is particularly important that the quote should continue to be expressed — other ideas have also been put forward in Finland. There's no need to compromise. However, one two-edged thing about this reform is this waiver of booking fees. It is a good idea in a sudden sense because it secures good access to material in remote areas, even in small libraries — this is important — and people can book books at perhaps a lower threshold and then they are delivered. But then, from experience, I know that free booking easily leads to e-commerce-type customer behaviour, where books are more easily booked, so unnecessary work and the cost of municipalities can increase. This, when combined with the fact that municipalities have difficulty maintaining their library network at all at the moment, can potentially be a challenge. By comparison, one local library in a medium-sized city is well under EUR 100000 per year. In other words, when dealing with such payments, municipalities may very quickly have to look at their local libraries and library networks again. On the other hand, this proposal mentions the possibility of charging for unclaimed reservations. So maybe there's still a good solution. The library law is not updated very often. But when you think about digitalisation and supporting electronic services and civic activities in today's Finland, this new presentation is important. Ensuring the functioning of public libraries in general is, in my opinion, an essential element in other tastes in promoting people's active citizenship, democracy, education, freedom of speech, media literacy, lifelong learning, active and good life for all ages. It is particularly important to remember and take into account libraries extensively as part of the promotion of vitality in municipalities. In other words, when the municipality of the future is a vitality, the library as a basic service is also absolutely necessary there, and the library is rightly a basic service. The indirect effects of libraries can be great, for example by encouraging them to read in general. We know that a youth who has read books can speak up to 70,000 words, but a youth who does not read part 15,000 words on average. From learning to concentration — all related to how we handle information, how we handle words. We work in words through each other and with each other. In that situation, it is absolutely essential that we encourage people to actively acquire information, and libraries play an important role in this. In addition to the core activities themselves, libraries also have other activities and many of these indirect benefits and impacts on the community around them. Local libraries, for example, are often considered to be a common living room or, for example, a place for homework or meeting older people. It is worth sticking to these, even though they may not be noticed in the municipal budgets. Libraries also promote integration. As a result, libraries could play a larger and more active role in immigrant work. And libraries can also collide with different groups of people, which is important for the stability of society. Municipalities struggling with financial difficulties have also sought creativity in the organisation of library services, and the new law should be made possible in this respect. For example, bringing other services to libraries, developing regional centres around libraries, and introducing self-service libraries where there is a small shortage of human resources and fewer users are good examples that should continue to be promoted. Many local libraries in Finland have been closed down. Usually, when the economic recession comes, municipalities are the first to compromise their non-legislative services, and the library network is one where there is often a compromise. However, the benefits of these local libraries are often much greater than they appear in the budget book. Mr President! When talking about regional libraries and the regionality of libraries in general, it would be important to remember the social and regional reform that is being prepared, which will also build a new regional administration. These issues relating to different regions in general should be built in such a way that they go in a synchronized way that they do not create different structures and thus create unnecessary complexity in our administrations, but that these models should be consistent and coherent and preferably synergistic. I am referring, therefore, to the fact that, for example, the number of provinces has now been cut to a certain extent by the government, so when considering library policy, these should also be considered. I would also like to draw attention to the eligibility criteria for work in the library sector, which are now being reviewed to some extent. The annexes to Prime Minister Sipilä's Government Programme also provided for the dismantling of the obligations of the Library Act. The debate on eligibility criteria combined with the overall austerity pressure and this normative approach raises some concerns in the Finnish library field, I understand. I hope that the committee will examine these issues in its deliberations. The library law and the legislation in the cultural sectors are already so loosely defined that I do not think there is much need for them to be relaxed at the moment. If qualifications are not provided for, it will, of course, allow municipalities to hire less-skilled staff at a lower cost, which may also be a risk to libraries. In other words, libraries must ensure sufficient knowledge when the library law is being reformed. Mr President! Even this new law does not meet all the challenges that our libraries currently face. For example, copyright solutions for e-materials are still very problematic and in many respects outdated. However, access to e-materials for all citizens is an important fundamental right, but regional equality is not fully realised at the moment. In Finland, there is relatively good cooperation between libraries and publishers, but we should continue to have an impact at all levels, especially in the EU, on making it easier for e-resources to be used and used in general. And in Finland it would also be worth considering more extensive cooperation in e-resources procurement decisions that are currently being made in municipalities. Furthermore, if we go into detail, we should have the production of so-called metadata, i.e. in plain language, the production of catalogues, organised as a more effective process at national level. At the moment, there are different practices. And so this applies to the whole book industry, not just the library sector. But I hope that the committee will also pay attention to such details. Sum summarum: This is an important reform. For the upcoming anniversary year of Finland’s independence, I hope that the new rise in libraries will also bring a little more encouragement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u148	President! The Finnish Library Institute has a wonderful history and also has a future. Without exaggerating, the Finnish library is the best in the world, and it is also fair because its central element is equality and free of charge. It can therefore be said, Mr President, that the library is an integral part of the Scandinavian welfare society. It is important that in the future the library will continue to be a local service and that there is sound everyday sense in the municipalities not to do what, from time to time, unfortunately, you get bad feedback, that just when people have free time, whether it is a ski holiday week or a fall holiday week, so suddenly the libraries are — specifically the libraries — closed, and of course this is not a good development. For many people, it can be said that the library has even influenced the course of life, as a source of inspiration for many good things. The role of the library is very diverse and will continue to be extremely important in maintaining and strengthening literacy. There are very worrying signs that literacy is deteriorating, and also that there are increasingly people, unfortunately it is men who do not read books at all on an annual basis. When the library plays a central role in the municipality of the future after the municipal reform, so
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u149	Mr President! Thank you to the government for having received a proposal for a new library law. It is perhaps one of the most important debates we are having now. It can be said that libraries should continue to be our national sites of protection. They are the cultural ones of our people, and they are fundamental rights. The free library must continue to be an absolute principle. A few thoughts that the library law gives rise to. Firstly, the fact that we will continue to have libraries as local services. It is recorded that it is the function of the municipality, but on the other hand it is a good thing that it is also recorded that if the municipality wants to organise it in cooperation with another or more municipalities, it is possible. In addition to this, it is an excellent thing that, in the case of municipalities too, consideration has been given to the fact that, firstly, there are the basic tasks of the municipality but, secondly, there may also be specific tasks, regional tasks or national tasks. For example, I would like to take these digital materials that have already been brought up. One might ask why the digital library should be developed in every region when it should be a national development destination. The national digital library must be a common goal for each of us, because the networks do not show municipal boundaries in any way, let alone the boundaries of the kingdom. One thing — which has already been done before this proposal — which is also to be commended and commended here is that the public library lending fee was raised to the Nordic level, which is a wonderful thing. The compensation will amount to EUR 15.6 million from the current EUR 9.3 million, which is a matter of great importance and a separate proposal has been made for this. A few ideas about the role of libraries, since this law makes this possible. One can say that the Finnish library network is one of the cornerstones of our civilisation. That is how our Finnish civilised society has been built. Libraries have made it possible for every Finn to educate himself and study. The educational function of libraries is valuable and hopefully we will be able to continue to strengthen it. One might say that Finland has been a great power in reading, and our schoolchildren's good Pisa success is also explained by the fact that we have a valued reading, books have been appreciated. I can see that it is precisely reading that is the basic skills that we will have to put on the agenda more, namely that there are small concerns there: fewer readings, fewer readings, fewer reading books for children, and the number of libraries has also gone down, even though the budget has also gone down. One can say that we are living in a new era where we need to consider what the library of future generations is. New generations come with new skills and also attitudes. We old dinosaurs, who have believed in the existence and love of the physical book, can inflame the same atmosphere on our younger knees — that is, the book can do many things that cannot be done with that digital material. But it is still up to us to consider the new ways of motivating our children and young people to read instead of just instant texts that are available online. Could the Pokémon game be made with deep read material? Here we are about to think nationally about how we create those new carrots for children to read, get excited and get it built up. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u150	Mr President! There is a government proposal for laws on public libraries, and it must indeed be said, as previous speakers have pointed out, that libraries create community, among other things, and, of course, for decades the importance of libraries for civilisation and the rise of Finnish living standards has been very important. According to this bill, the use, lending and booking of the library's own material would be free of charge in the future. However, libraries could, among other things, charge late payments to customers. Free access would enable libraries to be widely used for all groups of people, which I think is very important. The obligations of library users would be laid down in Article 13 of the Act. This section is new and in many ways appropriate. Unfortunately, the calmness of libraries has deteriorated significantly since the past years, when even a small explosion was quickly noticed by librarians. Is this a reflection of the change in society more generally, I cannot comment on it, but, of course, we should not go to libraries to constrain proper behaviour. However, if the library user caused interference to other library users or staff, he could be sanctioned in the future by a criminal fine. Even in terms of the overall comfort of libraries, this is a very positive thing. Mr President! Digitalisation has also changed the library operation, and the development of library activities with the rest of the world is therefore being ensured by this separate national development task, which is set out in Article 7 of the Act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u151	Mr President! Libraries are very important to Finns, and they are one of the cornerstones of our civilised society, but they are also the living rooms of our citizens, and in many places they are the only non-commercial residence facilities. Libraries reduce social differences when all citizens have free access to written culture and information, and Finns are very hard-working borrowers, which shows a very big appreciation for the library. This draft law before us is generally good, and the committee will certainly look into the details of the reading, but I am very pleased that the fundamental principle of our library system, namely free of charge, is on the way to being maintained and should remain so in the future. Mr President! Libraries must live in time, although of course they must cherish the good that has been in them for a long time. But it is particularly important to develop digital materials and digital services, and it is certainly appropriate to cooperate nationally and regionally between libraries. In addition, libraries can expand their activities not only to books but also to borrow various tools and utensils, something that has already been practiced in many places. It is also a good thing that libraries open up to society, organise events, talk sessions, and, for example, in small localities, it is often sensible to organise joint service points within libraries and thus secure the availability of both library services and other services in the locality, and it must be supported and developed. Mr President! I'm worried about the boys losing their reading skills and reading skills. There is a big national question about how we can get the boys to read, and this work requires libraries, schools, families and everything. Mr President! It is not enough to have a good library law, but also to have resources:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u152	Mr President! Det lönar sig alltid att investera i kungskap och bildning. Vad gäller biblioteken och dess uppgifter hoppas jag att man inte här i något skede förfaller till samma, delvis inskränkta sektorbyråkrati och förmynderi som till exempel i samband med sote- och jourreformen såg ut att vara fallet, där såväl undersökningar om kritisk massa och avstånd och andra osivava argument valdigt långt nonchaleras.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u153	Mr President! It is important to strengthen the position of libraries as a living room for the entire population. They are the pleasure and benefit of all of us. You can read the newspapers in the library, you can play there, you can even borrow the garbage pliers from the Espoo library. I think it is very important to ensure that libraries are free of charge, and that is why this line by the Chancellor of Justice that reservation is also free of charge is important. It increases equality and cooperation between municipalities when data can be booked across municipal boundaries. Although libraries are living rooms with a bit of fuss, it is still important that there are quiet spaces for study, especially in larger libraries. It is very important for children to read: This is how they learn empathy, and it strengthens their world view. Small children should also have access to the library itself, which is why local libraries are really important basic services to hold onto. Older people also find community in libraries. After all, the basic task of libraries is books and literature, which is why we need to take care of the authors' livelihoods. Quote payments for authors have now been made to the Nordic level, but we must continue to ensure that they do not fall behind. It will continue to be ensured that the library remains a basic service for the people as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u154	Mr President! Now we have to peck Espoo a bit: we can borrow a rowing boat from us. But as has been said in these speeches, the library has really changed, and I would describe it as we have changed from passive users to active producers. If we look at what the Helsinki library service, which we are all extremely proud of in Helsinki, has done, it offers the possibility of audio processing, image processing, from there you can book meeting rooms, people will use it as a working space. It provides many self-employed people with the place to work: a non-commercial, free-of-charge place where they can still find the services that many self-employed people need to do their job and to employ themselves. And I hope that the committee will then take account of its deliberations, its changed library and its future library. As important as books and reading and deep reading absolutely are, it is so much more today. A good example of this is the new Central Library in Helsinki, which rises opposite the Parliament House. I would also like the committee to take a strong position on the fact that everything must be free of charge, because the world has changed and the library materials have changed. Perhaps you can inherit something from a rowboat, but I hope that, for example, audio, image and data processing equipment will remain free of charge in the future. Perhaps, however, the duubious, like Mrs Parviainen, is that it would be appropriate, however, to make sure that the material is available, not too easily booked and then not applied for. But that is a detail on which the committee will certainly be able to comment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u155	Mr President! There is a government proposal for a new library law, and I can say so suddenly that during this parliamentary term, I do not remember legislation that is so important for Finns being reformed. This is a very important law for Finns, and I would have allowed more representatives to be present, but the most enthusiastic ones will probably be enough to deal with this library law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u158	Madam President! We will probably never be able to overemphasise the importance of the library — in particular this freedom of payment, that it is accessible to all. However, the library is one of those items where you can see that it is on the municipal savings list, unfortunately, and as a savings target. So, Mr President, now that the responsibility for the payment of social services is shifting to the state, it could be worth exploring whether the library services could be entirely the responsibility of the state. This would ensure regional equality in the library. The modern library is a multipurpose centre. It serves in so many ways. In my home town of Espoo, libraries and various other municipal services, joint service points and now also medical clinics have started to be located in the shopping centers' services, and the model seems to be working quite well. Library services are also provided in prisons, which is a very important issue there and ensures that those who have a desire to study can also do so easily and can then educate themselves about the time they are there. But perhaps this current debate on regional equality and local savings could raise this question, whether the library could depend on funding from this kind of national, state bag.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u159	Madam President! This government proposal on libraries and their free access is very good and very welcome. On a global scale, we have a unique library system and network, at least to date. But I would like this law to encourage the use of the library much more effectively than is currently the case. I think that poor reading skills for children, young people and boys in particular are a real concern. Twenty years ago, as a freak from Sweden, it was said that not all those who went through comprehensive school could read, and unfortunately this phenomenon is now also in Finland. Unfortunately, not everyone who has gone through comprehensive school can read, and this needs to change. I think that even day-care children should be introduced and encouraged to use the library and this will continue in the lower classes, making every effort to encourage reading. Tracing and communicating alone is not enough, but versatile reading develops in many ways, enriches vocabulary, as we have already heard, and also develops brain function in many ways. Similarly, if you think of older people, the library can serve them in many ways as a meeting and discussion place, but also as a place where you can encourage and help with the use of digital devices. I would think that this could be one of the important tasks of the library in the future, especially for the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u160	Madam President! On this issue of free payment: I think Mr Modig raised the question of whether a reservation fee might be possible for a small amount, but the Chancellor of Justice has already taken a position in 2004 so that it must be free of charge for all, and it has now been clarified in this law that there will be no ambiguity. But what you can pay — in other words, you can pay, the law does not require, but you can pay — is that the library can decide that if you have reserved the material but not retrieved it, you can pay a small fee for it. I think that is quite right, because it then tramples on the rights of users who, as it were, do not receive material because there are reservations. One more thing: When there are more different activities in the library, however, I would like to stress that there must be a place in the library where you can concentrate in a quiet, silent space, i.e. in a disproportionate space. There is also a minority of people with voice hypersensitivity who find it very difficult to concentrate on anything they see, read or hear if there is alarm around them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u162	Mr President! This government proposal is a good continuum for the very pro-cultural policy that this government has taken, and a great deal of praise has been given for this bill. This is a well-supported starting point, namely language, culture, cultural rights and then this free-of-charge, which has been mentioned in several speeches, and these principles are being upheld. But then there are these new tasks, which are also very much appreciated and welcomed, citizenship, democracy and freedom of speech, all those that, if possible, are more important than before, and libraries are a good and right place to promote these things. One point I would like to make is that of staff skills in libraries. They will certainly be motivated to consider how these new tasks will then be arranged in practice so that different groups and the diverse users of the library will then be able to make use of these magnificent basic services together. In this context, I would also like to thank the government separately for the change in the quote payments that will be linked to this whole. So, first of all, the lending compensation system will be extended to include higher education libraries, and at the same time the level will be raised. This is a very important cultural act which has long been attempted, and now it is being carried out by this government and very well to celebrate the centenary celebrations next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u163	Mr President! I cannot fail to comment briefly on the fact that there was a mistake from a colleague that perhaps money could also come from the state. Today, regional centres of expertise and business clusters compete globally with each other, and then its development responsibility and funding must also be linked to that regional and local ecosystem, and then it will grow as a whole. The government itself does not create any money. I myself fear that it will only lead to additional debt and worse services for everyone. We definitely need to have that regional perspective in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u164	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kiuru, for clarifying these booking fees. This is exactly what I'm looking for, which is exactly what Mr. Kiuru specified. You, Mr Kiuru, also brought up this distraction and voice and noise in libraries. I'm sure that's true. As a Helsinki experience and heard from the Helsinki library people: One thing that appears as a distraction, at least in our libraries, is how other services have been cut off. For people who have nowhere to go, who need help or are without a place to go, the library is one place — fortunately — where the doors are always open for everyone to come. But there are times when we feel that we are doing the tasks of both a youth worker and a social worker in the library, so I hope that, while we appreciate the library and invest in it, we will also take care of other basic services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u165	Madam President! Representative Strand was very good at mirroring this. Interesting in this proposal is this Nordic comparison with different models and contents, and when the committee goes through this, it would be a good opportunity to take these so-called good practices from other Nordic countries at this point. Mr Modig made an excellent speech. In Espoo, we have big differences between libraries as to who uses them. And really they have become such follow-up social services, continuations, if you could say so, and I wonder if it would be right for social workers to land in these libraries from time to time to meet young people there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u166	Mr President! This role of libraries as a meeting place and community builder: They are indeed the kind of places that make it possible, and for some people they may be free of charge, then perhaps the last places you can go without having to explain why you're there and what you're doing. It is acceptable and desirable that you visit it. This is a good proposal, and I would also like to point out this point, which has not yet come up in this debate: it says here that the library can also rent premises, and it is precisely emphasised that payments should be reasonable and cost-effective, that they should not be carried out in business, but that they should be offered, for example, for association activities, or whatever it is, a space where, in a proper environment, you can meet up with your freedom of expression or freedom of association, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u167	Mr President! This has been a good debate on the various types of libraries and their nature. Mr Laukkanen put forward a good suggestion that there could also be social workers in libraries, why not really looking for youth work, looking for old people. In Espoo, too, there are many large popular central libraries with all kinds of services, band workshops, workshops, opportunities, panels. Then, alongside these, it is very important that small local centers have their own small local libraries, where you can go to calm down and meet people in your village. I hope that the committee will record very carefully the importance of the library for Finnish society — for our civilisation, for the well-being of our children and the elderly and adults.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u168	Mr President! In the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media we will certainly record very strongly the importance of libraries and libraries for our society and also the variety of important roles that libraries already play. With regard to these previous speeches, it would certainly be useful to get as many good practices as possible around the rest of the world as to the way in which very different services could be brought into the library. It is a meeting place, yes, and there is much more to it than just quoting books, but it is also a place for many other-looking services, such as leisure and culture, even now, plus these new important tasks that this reform will bring, for example, in order to promote democracy and freedom of expression. All of this underscores and further underlines the importance of services and places in libraries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u169	Madam President! One more thing. Regional Agencies have played a very central role in developing and supervising libraries, and now there will be a single regional agency for the whole of Finland. The committee should now pay particular attention to how this responsibility for development control will be fulfilled in the future, when there is only one regional agency: who will it be transferred to in this social welfare reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u170	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u171	Madam President! This draft law, which is at the bottom of the committee's report, therefore provides for a law on renovation aid for residential buildings and dwellings. These grants are intended to improve the opportunities for elderly and disabled people to live at home, thus contributing to the accessibility of the housing stock, and these are very good objectives. However, it should be noted that this includes the deterioration that this proposal would lead to the abolition of grants which, according to the proposal, would no longer be topical or appropriate, including health and energy renovation grants for buildings. Those who have been left in the minority in our committee consider the justification for abolishing these forms of aid to be rather light. In particular, in the case of a health disadvantage grant, there is a complete absence of an assessment of the impact on the situation of those in need of assistance and a reflection on how they can move forward in their situation if this aid is removed. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, for example, has opposed the abolition of the health disadvantage allowance during the opinion phase of the amendment of the law and has suggested that this form of assistance should be developed in cooperation between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health instead of removal. And this report by the majority of the committee also states that there should be a system of some kind — if not the present one, then a system should be developed to assist these people in the most difficult situation, who, for example, have suffered from home mold or moisture damage and are in a situation where they are not actually able to live at home but are not able to sell their home either because the value has collapsed. President! We are therefore proposing a statement at this reading, which would read as follows: 'The government requires that the preparatory work on the development of health and energy subsidies to be immediately abolished be undertaken by the government so that the law on renewed health and energy subsidies enters into force at the same time as the proposal under discussion.'
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u172	Madam President! This current aid system has been criticised for being difficult to understand and its effectiveness has been considered weak, and this is certainly a well-founded view. But the solution is not to abolish the allowance for health and energy repairs — on the contrary, these should be developed, as the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has suggested in relation to the allowance for health damage. True, the owner of a moldy house, who has a health problem, is in a very desperate situation. In addition to health, the problem of mold has collapsed the value of the house, so it is impossible to fix your own home healthy, because the value of the guarantee has gone with the mold problem. For such a person such assistance may be the only way to get out of this financial impasse. I really hope that if this is rejected, another effective form of support will be found, because unfortunately the problem of mould is far too common in Finland. Energy aid, on the other hand, is a means of responding to climate change. The causes of the Finnish climate impact are housing, transport and food, and a functional energy renovation grant can contribute to the energy efficiency of housing and thereby reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and I therefore support the proposal and statement made by Mrs Huovinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u173	Madam President! First of all, I would like to support Mrs Huovinen's statement. I consider this to be a major shortcoming that it has been decided to remove such a significant issue for some reason, which is not even justified in any way, from these aid areas, which was actually quite a significant factor in the fact that renovations were started in many houses. Another point that I would particularly like to draw attention to here is that, while the whole reform has a major focus on accessibility, while this application procedure is being developed and improved and streamlined, there have been some things that have not been addressed, even though they are actually mentioned here in the text. Among other things, it says here: "The accessibility of residential buildings is of great importance, according to the decision in principle, as an enabler for elderly people to live at home. Obstructive buildings and surrounding environments reduce the survival of older people in everyday life and increase accidents." — — — — That's what I'm talking about. Obstructive buildings. Then it says: "The main challenges facing old blocks of flats in terms of accessibility are, according to the principle decision, related to the lack of lifts or the small size of existing lifts." This small size of lifts is in fact a very large accessibility factor. Now we have completely ignored the fact that we have apartment buildings built in the early 60s and 70s with very small elevators that are almost impossible to fit with a walker. In addition, they are still such semi - layer elevators, where the actual entrance to the apartment building is not even possible, but you have to go half a floor along the stairs. Now this is offered in such a way as to provide a stairwell lift model as an answer. But it may not make the situation any easier when the walker doesn’t fit in the elevator and you have to have your back against the door in the elevator if you can fit in. I was in contact with the ministry last year and also with the ARA and explained very well that I was able to deal with this situation. That is why my amazement is even greater: when these small elevators are stated in the text itself, they are not included in this aid programme. It would have been especially easy to put here, add. When these grants are targeted at retrofit lifts, it would then have been possible to have applied for this allowance for the updating of old lifts that remove accessibility. Unfortunately, it happened so funny to me that I didn't notice this performance until today. I would have liked to make this effort, but I should have left it before 12 o'clock, so I had this kind of childhood. But I hope that this can be quickly corrected by a regulation or by some other means, because there are so many of these houses. Many elderly people are forced to move into a service house, even if otherwise they could live in their own apartment because this movement becomes impossible for them. When the purpose of this legislative reform was precisely that as many people as possible could live at home, in fact, this little thing is quite a big thing after all. Mr President! I hope that if anyone from the ministry gets a reference from this speech, then this could be taken up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u174	Madam President! Accessibility is an important issue, and it is very important to take into account this without accessibility, i.e. mold problems that affect — estimated — nearly 800,000 Finns, and it is estimated that there are 250,000 children and schoolchildren. With this in mind, it has been somewhat scandalous to note that these health benefits are actually being removed. In fact, all I can think about is that there has been some sort of childhood here, but under no circumstances should these health benefits be removed. They must not leave, as planned, and I therefore support the impetus expressed and hope that this will be taken into account. This is a very important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u175	Madam President! Mr Laukkanen raised this issue about the lift, and that was a good point. This point of view, at least in my own memory, did not come up in the committee's consultation. The elevators were talked about — but it was about new elevators and then about the percentages and so on — and to whom it goes, in this case to the housing company and then to the residents. The attention was obviously correct. Of course, you can now ask how you have been awake in the hearing, disability organisations already in the drafting phase and at this committee stage. I don't know what happened. Representatives Huovinen, Modig and Tanus drew attention to the health benefit. It was discussed, and it became known, and the bill says that it will go away — it is true. The fact is, of course, that the grant has not been granted for a few years now, whether it is by law or not, so in practice it has not been granted when there has been no money in the budget. The real need, if it were to be resolved as if by money, is so enormous that, in this economic situation, the state's money is not enough — or the conditions should be so strict that it limits a significant part to the outside. I do not want to underestimate the importance of this, but this is, as it were, an atmosphere of what was discussed and heard in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u176	Mr President! I myself have not been in that committee, but I have examined these documents and I have already received some answers from Mr Kiuru on that speech. Indeed, we certainly have quite a large number of homes with mold problems, but one problem is where a lady came to me at a market event to tell me: He can't find a suitable rental apartment. He can't make such a short lease that no one would take him in. Because he had fallen ill after the mold house, and he could no longer really live in a typical old log house. It is a very difficult situation, because we now have construction arrangements that need to be built up with close construction and mechanical air conditioning, and he said that he is so hypersensitive that he can no longer live in one. We have such problems, and these are very serious. It's awful if you can't really live anywhere. In fact, Mr Kiuru raised this point which surprised me when I read this report from the committee: it has been said here that subsidies have not been used in the state budget for many years because it has been so limited that there have been no funds. In fact, I would have liked to have checked — Mr Kiuru is not a minister here now — whether the situation is, therefore, that when this goes away now, the appropriations have not been allocated since 2014 when this has started under the previous government. Let me get this straight, or am I wrong about what you said?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u177	Madam President! First of all, I would like to make it clear that I would like to support the objection to the motion for a statement tabled by Mrs Huovinen and presented here in the papers. Then I would like to say that it has really been estimated that this need for repair would amount to between 1 and 1.5 billion, what would be needed to repair or rebuild buildings with mould and air problems. It is a huge amount of money where municipalities and cities are not really doing well on their own, and in any case we should also find subsidies from the government. We think that between 1 and 1.5 billion is a huge sum, but on the other hand, when we compare what is the human suffering, the human pain, it is enormous. If you think about it, there may be people who are going to change the apartment, and when they are looking, they go to house introductions, so when you have a few minutes there, you have to leave when there is a mold problem. In this way, someone may have had to go around dozens of places before finding out that this is really healthy and that you can breathe and live normally. That is, human suffering, lost working days, weeks of work, months of work and that research process, the doctor running processes and all these if we start to associate. This is a problem for young people, small children and schoolchildren, middle-aged people, working-age people, but also elderly people, and if you put a price on all of them in euros, then I think that it is many times the cost of that EUR 1.5 billion, and that is the human suffering. So this is a really big problem, it is an expensive problem, but there must be a solution. Therefore, these health-related benefits and resources must also be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u178	Madam President! There have been very good speeches here, and I hope that if someone has a special understanding of what I have just said, how to speed things up, I will be happy to take all the advice in that regard. Concerning the scope of the aid: There was no need to cut it down. Although it could have reduced the aid percentages, it could have kept its scope, because it is often the case that the grant, whether 35 or 40 %, is no longer so important because it acts as a trigger mechanism to make that correction. Now, with regard to these health problems, asbestos problems in old houses have risen in a very special way when the surfaces of protected pipes are torn and asbestos flows along the corridors and then spread out into the mechanical air conditioning that is in the housing companies. Poor ventilation leads to a wide range of problems, and when these renovations are carried out, then there is often a fundamental effort to remove asbestos and replace ventilation systems and have huge health effects. I do not understand what was the Ministry's idea here that these were to be removed from this. Very sad.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u179	Madam President! Mr Laukkanen's attention to elevators and their real accessibility is indeed important and correct. Perhaps Mr Laukkanen will turn it into a bill if the Minister cannot take it under the job otherwise. But then this health benefit. I understand that is exactly the case, as Mr Kiuru said, that it has not been granted since, after 2014, there has been no allocation, but now there is nothing left to give. In other words, it should not have been removed, but, as the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health said, it should have become more effective and effective. After all, the mold problem is enormous. This is not only in private property owned by private individuals but also in public buildings. This is a huge problem in Finland, and no amount of money will be enough in any form of remedial aid to solve this, because unfortunately these sick buildings are still being created, all the time. Unfortunately this is nothing that during a certain period, in certain years the building regulations were not correct and therefore arose from such a diseased strain, but is still being created. Of course, this problem has now been identified. Last season, we did some molding, didn't we? It is a pity that this government does not want to continue with them. This problem has been identified, building regulations have been specified, but it is still not in place. We have to learn to rebuild and build better as a whole, and that means that we have to understand that log itself is a very good building material. We do not have to demand so many different building surfaces in order to achieve energy efficiency or a new good stand for birth, but those old log houses are still quite healthy and healthy, and rather we have to go back to that. But it is not only about building regulations, but also about long subcontractor chains and the chain of responsibility for building it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u180	Madam President! I took a look at those expert opinions which were heard in the committee so that I could answer this question as to why this health benefit has now been decided out of this whole package. It is now stated, for example, in the statements made by the Ministry of the Environment and the ARA, that this system has been very difficult to understand. Originally, there have been six different forms of support from this pot for both health and elevator issues as well as for energy subsidies, which is obviously also too unclear from the point of view of the Ministry and the ARA. But I would now like to quote the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which has said this in the following way: 'The form of assistance is no longer considered topical and appropriate. The effectiveness of the system has been limited and the aid system has been difficult." Then it goes on in a moment: "The effectiveness of the system has been particularly affected by the fact that the ARA has not granted these grants. According to the information received by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the threshold for granting grants has been found to be excessively tight, and in recent years the ARA has not granted any grants at all. The difficulties associated with the system cannot be the reason for excluding those in need from aid entirely. The conclusion of the difficulties associated with the grant should be that the system should be made more effective and not simply removed." I couldn't agree more with my own former ministry. I think this is a point of order. I am afraid that the government will have to raise this issue in one way or another, because as has been said here in a large number of speeches,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u181	Mr President! There have been a lot of good speeches here. I just wanted to briefly remind you that we can also do a great deal about this in our homes and cities. We in Vaasa have decided to integrate accessibility into the city picture, and we have also received prizes at European level. Last night we decided that the money earmarked for municipal lift subsidies could also be used for other investments to promote accessibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u182	Madam President! For this health benefit and its treatment: Indeed, the STM statement, as Mrs Huovinen said, was quite clear, someone could say even steep, but certainly quite appropriate in their own way. This report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection does reflect this point. It is stated here that the committee considers it important that the government should examine as quickly as possible the alternative of a replacement solution in order to create a timely and effective form of support in order to facilitate more difficult situations in the indoor climate. So the need is seen, but that repair handicap-allowance, as now turned out, obviously was not in the form it was the best way, because, as you also said, there is complexity, inconclusiveness, I'm sure there will also come such as screen questions and other problems, insurance companies and others then, who might be involved. I could imagine that they have simply made it so complicated and then, of course, these economic conditions. But the committee continues to say that there is a problem, that we must find a solution. This government proposal has failed to find a solution to this point, but the message has now been expressed in this report that there is reason to wonder, because there is a problem and we all recognise it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u183	Madam President! I would like to thank Mr Kiuru for opening this up a little. I myself was wondering when I was listening here to Mr Modig and then when I told him about the lady I met, that we could actually send further greetings to the minister and the government, that now that we start to develop this and quickly solve a new, effective form of support for people who are sick from the indoor air, we could think, for example, that, if you look at Professor Panu Kaila's writings, he always speaks for these log houses and breathable houses and against mechanical ventilation, that healthy house is the old house. It is not always the most energy-efficient, but these bottle houses of ours are beginning to be such that they may no longer be good for our indoor air. It might just be noted that when there are people who can't live in this type of apartment anymore because of moldings, we might wonder in this connection whether such things could be built, because those old houses are not incalculably available anymore, they've actually been demolished over time and those who have bought them will probably no longer give them up, it's good to be there and live in them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u184	Madam President! Now that the members of the government are ready to give their government their greetings, we could already address these legislative proposals as regards energy efficiency and construction at the moment. I very much welcome the fact that the government wants to promote the construction of wood. But just as you said, Panu Kaila is not called a house doctor in vain. If we are thinking about energy efficiency in buildings, then I do think we need to think about the whole life cycle, not how energy efficiency will be calculated over the next ten years, when surely a new parcel house with mechanical ventilation, a passive energy house or almost zero energy house within a ten-year radius is more energy efficient than an old log house, but when that old log house is standing there for 200 years, if we look at the whole life cycle when the other one is already molded and dismantled several times at that point, then the log house will also be able to cope with energy efficiency measures. But this is the most important thing now that we are doing this almost zero-energy house legislation, that it will bring this life-cycle thinking into line so that the right materials are comparable to the values and figures in which they have to be calculated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u185	Mr President! Now we have gone a little to the next government proposal, but there is the same problem or the same thing. In other words, this almost zero-energy construction, which is before the committee, is coming from the EU directives, we must do it. If we don't do that, then the sanctions will come, which means...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u188	Madam President! I had to go and look up this report from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on this matter when I listened to your debate. After all, we now face a major challenge in the future when, over the next 15 years, we should have about one million new unhindered homes if we consider what needs we have in society in the context of ageing and the objective of enabling the elderly, the disabled and us in general to live at home as long as possible. And there is also, in essence, the possibility of these various remedies for all citizens. I would now like to ask, for example, when Mr Kiuru has studied this issue a little more and the committee's report states that it is important for the government to find out as quickly as possible a substitute solution to create a timely and effective form of support to ease the most difficult situations in the indoor air, and this obviously also relates to the issue of accessibility: now that this law has been drafted, do you know that there is going to be compensation legislation in this area, or does this in practice mean that the housing needs associated with accessibility cannot be met, as has been suggested in this large national project?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u189	Madam President! The previous speech would be better addressed to the Minister, but since the Minister is not here, I will respond. But when I can't answer, I can't give you any reasonable answer — i don't know, that's the answer. But I would like to reiterate that the problem has been taken into account and I am sure that this debate will also be referred to in the Ministry and that message is justifiable, which has moved forward from here. And the committee has heard it and the problems have been seen, but these are the very conditions. The former law was ambiguous, difficult, and then these economic problems arise. What we had did not work, and now this proposal does not find the answer we are seeking. This question must then be put to the Minister, or it may be put in writing, for example, that from now on, when the committee has also referred to it. Then let us have all the proper answers from the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u190	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u191	Värderade talman, Madam President! Finland måste höja sin sysselsättning och vi behöver fler som jobbar för att få statsfinanserna i balans och för att trygga valfärdsstaten. För att garantera finländarra en tillräcklig utkomst under hela arbetskarriären krävs statligt stöd under de perioder då det av oika orsaker blir avbrott i arbetet. Det kan förutsätta både rehabilitering och fortbildning av dem som nu går arbetslösa, men också ekonomisk uppmuntran för att det alltid ska löna sig att jobba, och för att den som är activ ska gynnas. Vår arbetsmarknad har redan länge haft ett matching problem, det vill säga: vi har både ög arbetslöshet och samtidigt svårigheter att tillsätta lediga platter. Långtidsarbetslös bollas mellan myndigheter i stället för att man tartag i saken och kommer med konkreta sysselsättningsåtgärder. Utmangen har legat i att hitt läge där arbetssökande och arbetsgivare finner varandra effectivare. De arbetslösa måste få activa sysselsättningsåtgärder på arbets- och näringsbyråerna genast när de förlorar jobbet eller har permitters. Samtidigt måste staten motivera de arbetslösa att själva reserve activa. Det inkomstrelaterade utkomstskyddet för arbetslösa måste alltså bli mer motiverande genom att dagpenningen höjs och utbetalningstiden samtidigt förkortas. Danmark har goda erfarenheter av en dylik modell, den så kallade flaexecuritymodellen. Undersökningar från Finland visar att största delen av dem som fått ett now jobb får det genast i början eller i Slutet av den tid man har rätt till dagpensing. Vi tror att en sådan modell motiverar manniskor att snabbare börja jobba igen, och därför måste lagen om utkomstskydd för arbetslösa ändras.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u192	Madam President! The government proposes a cut of 200 million in earnings-related unemployment benefit. According to the proposal, the duration of earnings-related security is reduced by 100 days, the retention period is extended by 2 days, the increase after a long work history is removed and active increases are cut. With the presentation, the government says that it will encourage the rapid reception of work and reduce periods of unemployment. The proposal is estimated to save around EUR 70 million in 2017, of which the central government savings amount to approximately EUR 20 million. Madam President! We believe that the reasons for the proposal are vague and contradictory. In our view, the major problem with the labour market today is the lack of demand for labour, which has led to an increase in unemployment and a prolonged rate of unemployment. Reducing unemployment security does not create jobs, but increases low incomes and poverty. Weaknesses are economically significant. For example, with wage income of EUR 3000 before unemployment, reducing the earnings-related person by 100 days means a cut of EUR 4500 if the person is not employed but receives basic daily allowance. At its worst, cuts drive people into low incomes and long-term income support customers, raising the employment threshold. We know that dependency on income support makes it difficult for people to re-employment. Rapid employment is the best way to reduce unemployment security expenditure. More effective measures are therefore needed to support employment. Instead of surgery, measures are needed to make better use of unemployment benefit for employment and training. The criteria for access to self-employed training on the basis of unemployment benefit should be made easier. Unemployment benefit must be used as an automatic employment voucher. The automatic banknote reduces the bureaucratic burden of the TE Offices and enables more efficient job placement and a more personalised work service. The development of unemployment security is necessary, but the government's proposal does not do so but rather works in the opposite direction. Unemployment benefit must support the livelihood of the unemployed and the family during unemployment. We and the government must focus on creating jobs and maintaining and strengthening skills. This will support the possibility of employment for the unemployed. Madam President! For these reasons, I propose that this law be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u193	Madam President! The government proposal proposes to reduce the maximum duration of the unemployment allowance period from 500 to 400 days. For those with less than three years of work history, the maximum duration would be reduced to 300 days. The maximum duration would be maintained on 500 days only for unemployed persons who fulfil the conditions of employment after the age of 58. The aim of the proposal is, among other things, to dismantle incentives to prevent work from taking place, to reduce periods of unemployment and to reduce structural unemployment in a way that saves public resources. I believe that the reduction in earnings-related security, as proposed by the government, will not achieve the above-mentioned objectives. Shortening the unemployment allowance period will not be a decisive way of breaking down the incentive traps that prevent taking up work or supporting the employment opportunities of the worker. Since the proposal does not actively seek to promote or increase the employment opportunities of the person receiving unemployment allowance, it would result in a reduction in the unemployment allowance period of only several people moving more quickly to basic security and other benefits. Furthermore, the proposal does not take into account major regional differences in the number of jobs or employment opportunities, which would mean that the reduction of the unemployment allowance period would place people in a completely unequal position depending on their geographical location. This change would be economically unreasonable, especially in regions with high unemployment rates. Despite the high motivation of a person to find employment, finding new jobs is difficult in many areas. This problem will not be solved by reducing the unemployment allowance period. Instead of the government's proposal, the unemployment allowance period must be developed in a direction that promotes employment. Workers' opportunities to influence their own employment should be increased. I suggest that instead of shortening the duration of earnings-related unemployment benefit, the unemployed person would be able to spend the last 100 days of the unemployment allowance period on a wage subsidy or start-up allowance. This would involve active use of unemployment benefit and, at the same time, increase employment opportunities. Active use of unemployment benefit has already been tried on a small scale. Part of the unemployed who received labour market support were able to use their own unemployment benefit for pay subsidies or start-up grants. Madam President! I propose the following statement: "The proposal requires that the employee's ability to influence his or her own employment be improved by taking the unemployment benefit into active use so that the recipient of earnings-related unemployment benefit can, if he or she so wishes, spend the last 100 days of the unemployment allowance period on pay subsidies or start-up grants."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u194	Värderade fru talman! Mr Rehn-Kivi proposed as a statement that "the system of earnings-related daily allowance should be developed to make it more supportive for a shorter period of time, but that the amount of support should be slightly increased on the first 100 days of the unemployment period". Värderade Talman! I support this proposal made by Mr Rehn-Kive.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u195	Madam President! Shortening the unemployment allowance period will not decisively break down the incentive traps that prevent taking up work or support the employment opportunities of the worker. The proposal does not seek to actively promote or increase the employment opportunities of the person receiving unemployment allowance. Moreover, it does not take into account the large regional differences in the number of jobs or employment opportunities, which is why the reduction of the unemployment allowance period puts people at very different levels depending on their geographical location. Instead of the government's proposal, the unemployment allowance period must be developed in a direction that promotes employment. Unemployment benefit must be taken into active use while at the same time increasing employment opportunities. In other words, the employee's ability to influence his or her own employment needs to be increased. I therefore support the statement made by Mr Laukkanen that "the worker's ability to influence his own employment will be improved by the active use of unemployment benefit so that the recipient of earnings-related unemployment benefit can, if he wishes, spend the last 100 days of the unemployment allowance period on pay subsidies or start-up grants". I think that this kind of thing would be very supportive and employment-friendly and would have the same effect regardless of the place of residence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u196	Madam President! The government is proposing to reduce the duration of unemployment benefit in a situation where there is no work for everyone, where there is a huge lack of supply. We Greens have also had a lot of thought about developing unemployment benefit, and I personally would support a model that would have been phased out for earnings-related unemployment benefit. It would be more encouraging, but it should be introduced in a cyclical period when work is available. Active use of unemployment benefit for employment and training would be wise. The focus should now be on creating job opportunities, investing in research and training, and promoting entrepreneurship and export opportunities. The government's unilateral policy of purely cutbacks does not pursue these objectives. I support Mr Kiljune's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u197	Madam President! I'm still talking from here to the thinning but even more intelligent crowd. Well, let's get serious. It must also be admitted that in this government we have had to make heavy policies. And I'm sure we all know where we're going. I believe that we have a situation picture quite far the same: exports have been falling. The debt has been large. Unemployment, especially long-term unemployment, has increased enormously in recent years, since the recent recession and continues to grow, and it has been difficult to find any medicines for it. The government took one of its top projects in its government programme to change unemployment and social security in a more encouraging direction, and that is how everyone wants to take something, a stick and a carrot. For example, now that this has been the case, that the unemployed should be met and interviewed and caught every three months, others have experienced it as a little spanking and others feel it is very good. For example, in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, we heard psychologists from the Employment Office, and they told us how young people would like to have a personal service if they had a choice, which was actually a surprise to me when I thought that they were such online citizens that they would like to do business online. But to come back to this point, which is part of this key project and which aims to save EUR 200 million a year: Still, there are good motivations here. But we've been going over this research evidence. For example, it is stated here that, according to some studies, the change in the duration of unemployment benefit shows that as the end of earnings-related unemployment benefit approaches, i.e. as the end approaches, the likelihood of employment also increases. Of course, that may depend on many things, but it is hardly necessarily a coincidence. It is also pointed out that the reduction proposed for the maximum duration of unemployment benefit will result in a two-week reduction in periods of unemployment and will increase employment in that case by around 7500 person-years. It has also been estimated that the combined effect of shortening the duration and the level of earnings security on employment would be 9,000 person-years. Of course, all these are estimates. I'm sure nothing in this world can be predicted by an exactist. But I don't think it's all that small. If you think that in recent years we have come, if you think of the last term of government, 100,000 more unemployed, then 10,000 are a lot, one job is a lot. In the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, to which I belong, we have again stated in our opinion, on the basis of the reports received, that the employment impact of the reform could be even better if we were in the upturn, but it will also have an impact on the downturn, although these effects will come a little later in 2018. I was still looking at that... Congressman Rehn-Kivi has left this place. He had outlined the Danish model in his own explanatory statement and stated that unemployment benefit should be developed in a more encouraging direction by increasing the amount of daily allowance and, at the same time, reducing the maximum aid period. He at least partially accepts this idea, he did not suggest that it should be rejected, and states that there is good experience of this model in Denmark and that studies in Finland show that the majority of re-employed people receive a job allowance at the beginning of the earning period, so that they have an immediate employment opportunity, or at the end of the period. This is also a difference of opinion, an objection, and it is here that we agree with this philosophy. None of these may always be happy when it comes to getting even. I think it would be nice if we could add more to everything, but we have to make this situation turn. Hopefully — and it is already in the atmosphere — this course has turned so that we can quickly get on the path of growth and speed and sometimes bring such happy — happier — reforms. Let us hope that the opposition will also be satisfied with them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u198	Madam President! It is quite true that the government's actions have led to a break in the social situation and jobs are being created and the so-called downward spiral has been broken and now a small turn has taken place. The committee's examination of this law showed that this unemployment benefit law is essentially a savings law, the effect of which was not even believed in by the Ministry itself. I repeat: not even the Ministry believed that this would ultimately have an impact on unemployment. Nor was there any serious justification for this 9,000 new jobs as a result of this surgery. In all the statements it was left in the air a little, and no one dared to say straight away, promise what this will bring about. On the other hand, in Canada, when the 21st century was a very high rate of unemployment, a very simple model was put in place in which entrepreneurship was encouraged in a way that removed all social obligations from enterprises with fewer than five employees for a limited period of time, and within two years all unemployment was broken. Some kind of active unemployment policy of this kind I would expect from the government. This law, which cuts unemployment security, will not create jobs, but misery.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u199	Mr President! When Mr Meri said that this bill assumes that this will increase employment by 9000 person-years, including in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, when the experts were asked, there was no certainty about this. This was justified by a kind of economic research and they were very uncertain about what this means in practice, and then experts in various fields said that they too do not believe in the employment of this legislation. That is why I also agree with Mr Laukkanen's view that this is a very questionable proposal, which is essentially a savings law, which is also very questionable. It is also very unfortunate that the government does not carry out any kind of overall assessment of this, which these cuts will cause to the individual person, to the family or to our entire social security system or to our economy. In view of the fact that earnings-related daily allowance is being cut, the duration will be reduced when a person moves to unemployment allowance, he or she will probably also receive housing allowance, and then he or she may also be eligible for income support. In practice, when one end is cut, the costs are cut in the other direction and, as a result, the situation in a person's life becomes more difficult, unemployment may become more difficult, and the actual effects of this bill on employment are very difficult to justify. That is why I think it is absolutely essential that the government should rather focus on encouraging measures, strengthen knowledge and research and development and create new jobs, and that is why we have called for this legislation to be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u200	Madam President! After all, the government also has a lot of measures to promote this labour market policy, including the use of unemployment benefit as a start-up grant and so on, which has not just been dealt with in this proposal. And it’s true that there are so many of these, you get to focus on it yourself sometimes, that what’s going on here at any time and at what point. I would say to Mrs Kiljunen that, if you look at and remember this opinion of the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities which was sent to you, we required an overall assessment here, because it is difficult in any way to get control of what this synergy might be. It's good to watch together. But now I am a little surprised at Mr Laukkanen's message that the Minister himself does not believe this. I watched our expert hearings, and we didn't have a minister in committee...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u203	Madam President! In that sense, Mrs Mere's speech was quite, could you say, a good thing, when she described the overall situation dealt with in this law and also in the previous law. So now, in this situation, the ministry officials have not given support to this law, they were very neutral, they did not give support to it, but of course they are preparing a bill by the government. The experts did not support this, and now, as you said, the committee was also very critical of this, because no real assessments have been made. And you are also calling for assessments and monitoring because the real objective of this law cannot be demonstrated. In that respect, I think that this is a very good reflection of the legislative preparations made by this government, and I am very sorry about that. It would be hoped that, when legislation is being prepared for Parliament, the legislation is such that we can genuinely count on it for the better, and we have information about the impact of its legislation on both individual citizens and our society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u204	Madam President! I just want to make sure that I really said "Ministry."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u207	Madam President! I thank you for your thanks and say that it may then be that I was somewhat unclear, but I did not say that we had a very critical opinion in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities. Of course, we always bring these up in evaluations, but we also have a genuine belief that new jobs will be created here. We would certainly not be involved in anything if we did not believe that there would be more real jobs. If we were to say that this was going to be more or less unemployment, it would have to be like half-mad to agree to it. But there was no such atmosphere. And if I were to say about the arguments of the ministry officials in general in committee: they are very careful. They're very different from our experts. The experts always have very precise how it and how I saw and saw it. Officials want to be a little in every direction, and they never want to have a terrible amount of physical figures and this type of figures. That I have not criticised our government for its poor legislative work, but we have hoped in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities when there are so many of these that we would see what synergy this will be. But of course it cannot be in advance, and that, for example, has been told many times by the representative of the Ministry, Oivo. They themselves have found that they have to do this examination, but he has said that it is not going to start there immediately, but that we have to go for a while, that the law is in force, and then we will look at and get an assessment of its impact, especially in Finland and in Finland's economic situation. That is what I was trying to say in the previous speech: if we always demand a terrible amount of information before we can make any provision that it is in the style of one person, then we will never be able to regulate any law. We always have the impression that the impact assessment is too easy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u208	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, it is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u209	Madam President! This overall reform of the Act on communicable diseases is a highly awaited bill and is expected precisely because we do not have clear policy guidelines or legislation, how to act in different situations. Very descriptive was the fact that when this matter was discussed in committee and we heard experts from different quarters working on the Act on communicable diseases and social and health care operators, the practices in different parts of Finland were very different. For this reason, the field has been waiting for a clearer law on how to implement this legislation on communicable diseases. There is now this guidance, and even in these various exceptional circumstances it is possible to achieve this even better. But what was also very descriptive was that then some of our committee members and representatives saw that statements should be included in this, precisely on the basis of what was said in the committee, but we Socialists and a few other groups — Greens and Left Alliances and the RKP — saw that there was no need to agree with these statements, which is why we are proposing that these statements be rejected and deleted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u210	Madam President! I'm in favour of a representative. I'm screaming for a show.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u211	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented for a partial, partial second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 15/2016 vp, it will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u212	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u213	Mr President! There's an amendment to the Food Act. The draft law will reduce the provisions on control programmes and municipal control plans for central food control agencies. It also reduces the role of municipalities. The reduction of controls can better target control resources on a risk-based basis. It is important to be able to target controls and identify risks. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry therefore stresses in the report that the reduction in systematic controls must not increase the risk of harm to health. EU bureaucracy has been going on for a long time. There is a lot of EU bureaucracy and some of it comes from home. Excessive bureaucracy and control stifle local small-scale business and food culture. That is why this proposal, which was unanimously approved by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, must be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u214	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u215	Mr President! There's a law on the amendment of the law on planting material. It is based on European Union law. The law proposes to lay down basic provisions on the catalogue of varieties of horticultural plant material to be marketed. The Finnish Food Safety Authority would approve the variety for the catalogue of varieties. It is important that, in accordance with EU law on seedlings, old varieties are subject to lighter requirements than new varieties. The preservation and preservation of old traditions is valuable. They're our cultural heritage. In addition, the progress of climate change may lead to more pests. Old traditions are tough and disease resistant. They can rise to an unpredictable level. As the committee states in its report, the committee welcomes the fact that varieties meeting national requirements can also be included in the list of varieties without application. For nationally marketed varieties which are of little relevance to professional fruit and berries production, a lighter variety description procedure is sufficient. This will also contribute to the preservation of national fruit and berry genetic resources of genetic and cultural historical value. Finnish nurseries have a large and unique collection of old apple varieties in their production. I think it is important that this is followed up in the future and that we ensure that our old traditions are preserved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u216	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u217	Mr President! There is a law amending the Act on the organisation of the markets in agricultural products. In future, recognition of producer organisations would be possible in all product sectors covered by market organisations. Producer organisations are organisations set up at the initiative of producers to carry out tasks related to the production and placing on the market of agricultural products. The bargaining power of farmers in the food chain is generally weak. In its report, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry considers that sectoral organisations create opportunities for joint marketing campaigns and the promotion of research and product development, of which at least some sectors have a clear shortage. Industry organisations can also be used to influence retail trade. Indeed, the share of trade in profits in the production chain is now disproportionate and new means of finding direct markets are most welcome. For example, the growing food districts of cities are good development. After all, last season there was also an amendment to the Competition Act, which was intended to dismantle or reduce the high level of trade, but it is now time to find out whether the amendment made in the last period is sufficient after all. After all, agriculture is now in an historic crisis and it is also important that Parliament recently unanimously adopted a law guaranteeing loans to farms with temporary payment difficulties. Greens are also in favour of new means of earning land. For example, the new innovative products Nyhtö oat and Härkis are taken off the shelves of the store, and the energy renovation can also provide a boost to the countryside, a new stream, by supporting, among other things, the farm size class
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u218	Partly, in part, for a second reading will be presented on the 28th item in the order of business. First, on the basis of the report TyVM 7/2016 by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities, the decision will be taken at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u219	The 30th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u220	Madam President! This is a legislative initiative by the parliamentary coeliac network aimed at enabling people with celiac disease to be treated appropriately to those who are economically most vulnerable. This amendment would guarantee equal treatment regardless of the applicant’s municipality of residence. At present, consideration of the cost of celiac care in income support varies from municipality to municipality. In a weak economic situation, the risk of poor treatment of the disease increases. Madam President! People with celiac disease must also be able to treat their illness in a weak economic situation. As of 1 January 2016, the Parliament abolished the dietary allowance for people with celiac disease. This has caused major problems for people with celiac disease who are customers of income support. There is currently no social support available for treating the disease. Celiac disease is a medically proven lifelong autoimmune disease, the only treatment of which is an absolute gluten-free diet that lasts the whole life. The diet should be followed closely every day. The treatment of coeliac disease requires absolute accuracy in both food selection and food preparation as well as outside the home in eating situations. If a person with celiac disease does not follow a gluten-free diet, the result is inflammation of the small intestine and damage to the intestine. Repeated exposure to gluten maintains an inflammatory reaction in the small intestine. As a result, a person with celiac disease is highly likely to develop additional diseases such as nutrient deficiency, osteoporosis, anemia, infertility, depression or, in the worst case, malignant cancer of the small intestine, lymphoma. The above-mentioned diseases entail a lot of extra costs for society in terms of health care expenditure. With the right treatment, the celiacian remains functional and functional. In case of income support, the cost of gluten-free dietary care for coeliac disease is covered by supplementary income support. The eligible costs for supplementary income support are determined independently by the municipalities. As a result, the acceptance of the costs of celiac dietary care in the income support application varies according to the municipality of residence. This puts people on an unequal footing according to their place of residence and endangers the possibility of treating the disease. It has become clear that celiac disease is unknown in the context of income support solutions. For the treatment of coeliac disease, a lifetime gluten-free diet prescribed by your doctor has not been comparable to prescribed medical treatment. There are several other types of autoimmune diseases in which the society provides support through the reimbursement system. These costs are also accepted almost without exception in the application for income support as expenditure for the applicant. According to the 2014 price survey, dietary care for celiac disease will entail additional costs of EUR 68 per month. The costs are permanent and are repeated every month. In order to ensure the care of the disease of a celiac person receiving income support, it is very necessary that the extra costs of dietary care for celiac disease are taken into account in the basic part of the income support. In this case, celiacs are also on an equal footing with those taking prescription drugs prescribed by the doctor for the treatment of their diseases. From the beginning of 2017, the solution work and payment of basic income support will be transferred to Kela. In addition to the basic element, other basic expenditure shall be taken into account as necessary in the Act on income support, as referred to in point 7b. Additional income support will be transferred to support from the Kela to items of expenditure that often recur and require less consideration. Celiac disease and the dietary treatment it requires is unambiguously verifiable by medical advice and does not involve any consideration. The costs handled by Kela would be taken into account everywhere in the same way. This ensures that all people with celiac disease receive equal treatment across Finland. This will also release social workers' resources for more demanding tasks. In view of the above, we propose that Parliament adopt the following bill: Law amending Article 7b of the Act on income support, paragraph 4: "non-basic health care expenditure and additional expenditure on gluten-free diet due to celiac disease diagnosed by a doctor". We propose that this paragraph 4 be amended in the way we have proposed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u221	Mr President! A coeliac can't eat a crumb of gluten. Celiac disease is a lifelong illness that cannot be compared to a food allergy. The only acceptable treatment is strict compliance with a gluten-free diet. Otherwise, the consequences for health will be very serious. If a person with celiac disease does not follow a gluten-free diet, the result is inflammation of the small intestine and damage to the intestine. Repeated exposure to gluten maintains an inflammatory reaction in the small intestine. As a result, a person with celiac disease is highly likely to develop additional diseases such as nutrient deficiency, osteoporosis, anemia, infertility, depression or, in the worst case, malignant cancer of the small intestine, lymphoma. The government completely abolished the dietary allowance for celiac patients, which was paid EUR 23.60 per month in 2015. This has caused major problems for people with celiac disease who are customers of income support. There is currently no support for treating the disease. The Celiac Society has conducted a wide-ranging survey on the consequences of the abolition of the dietary allowance. In response to the question of "what ideas arose about abolishing the payment of compensation" there was a great deal of concern about coping. One of the respondents said: "I was shocked. It seems that those who decide do not understand the seriousness of celiac disease as a disease." And second, "I feel inferior to my illness." Mr President! The purpose of this Celiac Initiative is to ensure that people with a very poor financial situation are able to treat their illness with the precision prescribed by the doctor. Currently, in the application for income support, the costs of care for celiac disease are covered by supplementary income support. The granting of the aid varies according to the place of residence and therefore many people are not eligible for the aid. If the costs were to be transferred to the basic expenses of income support, equal treatment could be guaranteed regardless of the place of residence. Celiac disease is a permanent disease and the treatment it requires is life-long, and the costs of the disease are also constant. A gluten-free, balanced diet is expensive. Celiacs also need grain products according to the food circle, but few cereal products are gluten-free and suitable. The products must be made just for celiacs, as there must be no trace of the manufacturing process, no crumbs of ingredients containing gluten. Only a very small proportion of people with celiac disease are clients of income support. The economic cost of this legislative amendment would be very low for society. Moreover, guaranteeing the possibility of good treatment of the disease can prevent the emergence of significant additional diseases, the cost of which would be particularly costly. I hope that Parliament will accept this initiative. Now it's not just about money, it's about will and equality in Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u222	Madam President! This law on support for people with celiac disease is particularly close to the Christian Democrats, as it was adopted by Parliament in due course by the Christian Democrat MP, Marja-Leena Kemppainen, as a result of the bill. That is why we are also very disappointed with the government when it abolished this small aid. I'm sure that surgery will cost more than savings. The operation was inhuman and is most serious for low income sick people. That is why this legislative initiative by the Celiac Group of the Parliament is most welcome and has also been signed by the whole Christian Democratic Parliament. We think it is very important that this initiative should receive the attention it deserves and at least correct this mistake made, that these low-income ones, who are trying to obtain these allowances through income support, should receive them on a regional level — not as if they were there on a livelihood hatch to obtain the mercy that they deserve, but actually receive the support they deserve. This support should be multiple. Another similar initiative is currently under way: it cuts the cost of treating grade two diabetes and the reimbursement of medical expenses, and it will also cost more than savings. It seems strange in modern times when it is easy to see how any government — this or any government, or any government ever or after — is producing legislation that is already at the starting point to see that it is costing more than savings. This should not be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u223	Madam President! At the outset, as a member of the parliamentary coeliac network, I have signed this initiative and I am in favour of it and I sincerely hope that it will go through. As has been done here, celiac disease is a lifelong autoimmune disease and is often, very often, mixed with allergy. I myself have people in close contact with coeliac disease, and I know that one of the food that contains gluten in crumbs causes enormous pain because it causes inflammation in the small intestine and long-term damage to the intestine. And it is true that there should not be a little bit of it. I am lactose intolerant, and I can take some dairy products, but the gluten-free diet really has zero tolerance, it can't take it at all. I was looking at the various diseases that celiac disease without treatment causes. It is indeed small intestine damage, and it exposes people to additional diseases such as osteoporosis — a person close to me who has had this disease because of celiac disease — anemia, depression, infertility — quite surprising, many suffer from infertility, could this also be the background? — and the worst, of course, is lymphoma. Indeed, this bill proposes that it be transferred here to basic income support expenditure, so that this compensation would not vary from one municipality to another, because now it is granted and sometimes it is not. It is surprising how many foods you add gluten. I have heard it said that it does not now, then buy a bit like something specific, and there is not much to say that it is now that cereals are not used. But it is in all the world’s food sauces and ice creams, and God knows where it is added. It seems to add to the permanence, congealing, appearance. It is found in very many places, in all kinds of ready-to-eat foods. And what is really relevant is that it should not be confused with allergies. I am not underestimating allergy, for example, I am suffering from hives, but there is no permanent damage to me, and with antihistamine I can take care of it — it is very embarrassing, and by this I do not mean that allergy is not a nasty disease. There I found a questionnaire commissioned by the Keliaki Association, which it had commissioned for its members this year, and 2,000 people had received a questionnaire and 783 had answered. And there were surprising results here: for example, the question of the effects of abolishing the allowance on the implementation of gluten-free diets, 43 per cent of people have answered that I have been able to buy less gluten-free products. Not a good direction at all. Then here's the question: "Evaluate the impact of government cuts and austerity measures on your own economy and everyday survival." Only 15.5% have replied that it has no effect. Of course, there are wealthy people who do not see things of this type because disease does not look at the level of wealth. It'll hit anyone. It has also been asked: "Have you had to apply for income support?" 5.4 per cent have said "yes". We were given this type of figure from Kela that about 34,000 over 16-year-olds have previously, at the end of 2005, received a diet allowance previously paid by Kela. In other words, according to this estimate, if, according to this study, around 5% would receive this income support, it would run in it between 1500 and 2000 persons. Depends now on how many of them would pick it up. Then there would be a few interesting points in this study while I still find them there. There were such oral comments here. Here was this: "Is the cost of gluten-free dieting in celiac disease taken into account in the income support decision?" So the person has applied for income support from the municipality. It has been found here that 7% have been taken into account and 93% have not been taken into account. Then here are such a few customer responses: "I applied for support in June, we discussed the consideration of dietary costs, but the regulations are that they are ignored." And then again in other municipalities there are orders that they be taken into account. This last one was my own addition. Then someone else says, "Many times I've asked, but no answer has always come." Then one person says, "There is no increase in the cost of food." This is what the person tells you that the decision had been read even though a separate report was submitted. So from this you will notice that this disease is not understood, and this is very necessary to get into the livelihood law. It is still good to remember what I was thinking the other day when I drove past a line of food, that I wonder if there is enough gluten-free diet available in these food bags. This is the only way to compensate them in one way or another and in a uniform way, regardless of the municipality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u224	Mr President! The bill is very welcome. Restoring coeliac aid, even for the most vulnerable, through income support, is a worthwhile solution for the protection of health care. However, the Left Alliance proposes in its alternative budget that the compensation for celiac disease should be fully reimbursed. The dietary allowance of €23.6 for celiac acid, which has been abolished by the government, is quite insignificant for central government finances, but for the sufferers, this amount may be significant, even though it is generally far from fully compensated for the additional costs of special diets. The way in which the government takes individual patient groups into its teeth and into surgery — now celiacs and type 2 diabetics — is extremely unreasonable for these people, and it is difficult to justify it. It must also be remembered that cutting these people and their medical benefits can cost a lot of money, for if these diseases are not properly treated, the disease gets worse, it will cause accompanying problems, and it will cost society a great deal of money. So, hopefully, this bill will get some support and move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u225	Madam President! As has been said here, this is a medically justified autoimmune disease, and it is unreasonable that we have one group of people who do not receive the treatment they need in this kingdom. Then it has been amazing that this has been justified as an allergy and has not been seen as a disease that its only treatment is zero tolerance, a gluten-free diet. Once it has been said here that a person could leave out flour or pasta or oats away, we have a state nutrition council that has defined guidelines common to all of us citizens, which define our energy levels and our dietary preferences. In this regard, it can be shown that gluten-free flour is approximately 9 times more expensive than wheat flour, that pasta is 6.5 times more expensive than pasta and spaghetti, oat flakes and porridges are 4.5 times more expensive than ordinary oats. Here are just examples of the usual products that we all eat on a normal everyday day, and they are also recommended by the State Nutrition Advisory Board. What has been unfortunate about this is that now that we have income support transferred to Kela, it would be very simple to transfer this into the basic part of our income support. As stated in our joint legislative initiative, Article 7 justifies other basic expenditure and includes, among other things, economic electricity, home insurance, childcare costs, necessary identity cards and, among other things, essential health care costs, which could include these additional costs of gluten-free food. This is technically easy to do, it is only a matter of political will, and because we have this cross-sectional coeliac network of ours, which covers all the parliamentary groups, I would like to see this vision of ours valued and this matter taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u226	The 31st item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u227	Mr President! This bill concerns Section 8 of Chapter 11 of the Health Insurance Act and relates to the impact of meeting fees for the management of municipal trust tasks on parental benefits. The Sickness Insurance Act therefore lays down the basis for determining maternity, paternity and parental allowance, and these benefits are intended to ensure that the cost of parenting is not excessive for anyone. In accordance with the legislation in force, the amount of daily allowance is reduced to a minimum if the child’s parent is simultaneously employed during the daily allowance period. During this autumn, there have been cases in which the municipal trust commissions have been interpreted as earned income, the management of the trust function has been interpreted as work and the parental benefit paid for the meeting days has then been paid in a minimum amount. The impetus of this bill was the experience of a district councilman who had done so, and when that councilman happened to be a dedicated lawyer, he explained the matter to the root, carried it to the end, so to speak, and it turned out that there was such a case that revealed a defect in the current legislation. It also seems that there are different practices in this area, and that is why the law needs to be specified in this regard, in relation to these details. In their decision-making practice, the appeal bodies in matters of income security, the Social Security Appeal Board and the insurance law have considered that the management of municipal trusts is equivalent to gainful employment in the application of the Health Insurance Act. So that is what has been interpreted. However, municipal representatives are not in employment or service relationship with the municipality and there is no right to leave or pension from the trust commissions. The purpose of earnings income is to provide income, while the purpose of municipal trust payments is to replace the time needed to ensure that this constitutional law is implemented to the greatest extent possible so that everyone can participate in municipal decision-making. Nevertheless, as stated above, trust fees have been interpreted as reducing parental benefits. Current administrative practice regarding the impact of the fees paid for the trust act on various benefits also varies. For example, in the case of unemployment benefits, the meeting fee obtained from the trust act does not reduce the amount of unemployment benefit, but this has happened with regard to parental benefits. It would therefore be appropriate to harmonise the treatment of municipal trust payments in different types of benefit. Mr President! The purpose of family benefits is to ensure the care of the child at home. However, it cannot mean that the parents of young children would be discriminated against by participating in the management of municipal trusts or in politics. There are many other situations in the everyday life of families with children where care is provided, for example, in the family circle when parents have personal expenses, and such arrangements — even when they are regular — do not lead to the payment of benefits as a minimum. It is also noteworthy that meetings relating to municipal positions of trust and municipal policy are often held in the evening, when — if there are two parents in the family — one might think that one parent could attend those meetings and it could be interpreted as a hobby, as if it were many other hobbies. Many of us, including myself, know firsthand that the participation of parents of young children in politics is quite challenging and should be specifically promoted and facilitated rather than created incentive traps that will then have to be considered separately. On the contrary, parents of small children should be encouraged and actively sought to dismantle barriers to participation. Society must communicate through legislation that parents of young children are wanted and welcome in politics and that parents of young children, just like people of all ages and backgrounds, must be able to feel that they have equal rights to participate in decision-making. The exercise of municipal positions of trust is a legal right and, in many respects, an obligation, and I do not believe that it is justified to compare them to gainful employment. Political action is an equal right for everyone, and society must encourage this right to use. We cannot afford the parents of young children not to be involved in the planning and decision-making of common matters. Moreover, families with children are a major consumer of many key social services, so it would also be important to involve the opinions, views and experiences of parents of young children in the municipal decision-making process. In order to encourage parents of small children to exercise their municipal trust, it would be justified to amend the Health Insurance Act so that the remuneration for municipal trust tasks would not be taken into account as income reducing daily allowances. This is an up-to-date debate, even because many parties are currently trying to collect lists of candidates for the municipal elections and when this subject comes to light this autumn, it is very difficult to justify to the parents of young children that your particular contribution is needed, that is something they want to encourage and now it is worthwhile to go along with, when there are many other issues to consider. When a big decision is made about leaving politics, it should not be necessary to consider this question of your own livelihood. I put a written question on the subject in the autumn and Mr Mattila, Minister of Social Affairs and Health, answered it. In his reply, he stated that current practice, taking into account the income derived from the trust act in the assessment of parental allowances, may in some cases have an impact on the participation of citizens in social activities. The Minister therefore stated in his reply that there are cases of this kind and that people may assess their opportunities to participate on the basis of this instance. However, according to Mattila’s reply, this was not considered sufficient grounds for amending the legislation in such a way that the remuneration for the duties of trust would never affect the social benefits to be paid, and on this basis this bill, which proposed that the legislation be amended so that the amount of parental allowances under the Health Insurance Act would not in future be taken into account for meeting fees for municipal trust duties. For the sake of clarity, however, it would be justified to limit this line in some respects. In this bill, I propose limiting this derogation by taking into account only the fees paid under the municipal law and not, for example, the fees paid by public limited companies owned by municipalities. In addition to this, it would be justified to define that this applies only to part-time municipal trust activities and not, for example, to the management of a mayor or a similar full-time municipal trust, such as a full-time city council chairman in some municipalities. When there is a clear municipal trust in the city council, for example, these fees would not affect these parental allowances. The aim is also to enable parents of young children to participate better in municipal decision-making. This is important, it is justified, and this small change in the law could remedy this minor flaw.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u228	Mr President! The bill is to be welcomed, and thank you, Mr Sirén, for doing so. The remuneration for the management of a municipal trust mission should not have a cut in the amount of parental allowance, as the municipal trust cannot be compared to gainful employment. Legislation must be clear and social activity must not be penalised. This is particularly important for women, because women use the majority of parental benefits, so it is also an issue of equality. The current state of law penalises the parents of young children for social activity, and this must not be the case, and this cannot be the case, as everyone should be able to participate in the management of trust tasks on an equal footing, and the participation of parents of young children will be sufficiently challenging without this trap of incentives because of the variety of practical arrangements. Mr President! I very much hope that this state of law will be clarified and that this bill will actually be taken up. This change of law has been widely supported by a number of women's organisations, so I hope that this will be a success.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u229	Madam President! I was about to leave, but when I heard the content of this bill, I stayed here to give my opinion. I would also like to thank Mr Sirén for this bill. This is very good and worthy of support. It cannot be that we have a group of people, a group of people who cannot take part in social decision-making and carry out that trust as other citizens can, and in that respect I was also pleased that you had taken a legislative initiative and have given a very wide range of reasons in relation to these limitations. I also hope, for my part, that this bill will succeed in these processes of ours. And if not successful, then this is probably the kind of thing that will be worth it before the next government program to start drumming, that this kind of disorder then will be removed once and for all. — Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u230	The 32nd item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u231	Mr President! The bill for the amendment of Article 13 of the Health Care Act introduces an obligation for municipalities to provide for free contraception for all young people under 25 years of age. The objective of the bill is to improve the sexual and reproductive health of young people, reduce unwanted pregnancies and abortions, and reduce sexually transmitted infections. After the social welfare reform, the obligation to provide free contraception could be transferred from municipalities to provinces, while other responsibilities for organisation are transferred. The bill introduces an obligation for municipalities to provide free contraception and contraception for all under 25 years of age. The bill does not specify the range of prevention that municipalities should offer, but remains to be further defined by the regulation. It is clear, however, that condoms must also be included in the selection. Condoms should be offered alongside hormonal contraception in order to prevent sexually transmitted diseases more effectively and to ensure a more even distribution of responsibility for contraception to both girls and boys, and to allow young people to opt for non-hormonal methods of contraception. According to the bill, free contraception would be offered in municipal health centres and in the health care of students and schoolchildren. The Family Federation, as well as several youth and student organisations, have supported the amendment of the law in accordance with the initiative. Providing young people with free contraception could reduce the cost of the health system by reducing abortions, venereal diseases and other health problems. The most important thing, however, is for young people to remain healthy and well-being, to have the contraceptive services they need, to avoid unwanted pregnancies and not have to undergo abortions. Free contraception could in particular reduce the number of re-aborts. Most abortions occur in the age group of 20-24 years. Young people in this age group are often underprivileged students, for whom it may be prohibitive in terms of income, and a group that also exhibits risk behaviour. It is therefore justified that free contraception should be offered to all under 25-year-olds who need it. In addition to free contraception, young people should have easier access to services, information and advice. Mr President! Unfortunately, the price of contraception for many young people creates thresholds for the use of contraception. In particular, a high purchase price prevents the use of long-term methods of contraception, such as capsules and curls, even if they are the best and most cost-effective solution for contraception for young people. The high price of contraception is often also an obstacle to the continued use of contraception. It is expensive to prevent young people from making small incomes in Finland, and the cost is often borne by girls alone. The monthly price of E- Pills is close to EUR 10 per month, the prices of long-acting contraceptive implants and wafers are well above EUR 100, and the price of condoms is almost EUR per month. Understandably, the student and school budget has a high cost of prevention, especially when it can be difficult and often impossible to ask parents for money for intimate expenses. Measured by many indicators, Finland has done great and progressive work on sexual and reproductive health. However, the high price of contraception and the resulting threshold of use is a problem for our country's sexual and reproductive health policy. In many European countries, some methods of contraception are offered free of charge to the entire population, prevention is heavily subsidised or free contraception is offered to certain groups, such as young people. Finland is therefore lagging behind many European countries in this respect when there is no subsidy in Finland. Free contraception has been shown to increase the use of contraception in young people. In some form in Finnish municipalities offering free contraception, the number of abortions among young people has fallen and the number of sexually transmitted diseases has decreased and even money has been saved. There are good experiences from Rauma, Tervola, Vantaa and Tornio, for example. Based on the experience of local authorities, the cost impact of the bill is likely to be either neutral or to save public expenditure. For example, in Rauma it is estimated that the free prevention offered to young people saves EUR 100,000 a year. Additional costs arise from the provision of contraceptives, but savings arise from reduced treatment for sexually transmitted diseases and abortions and the psychosocial problems they cause. Mr President! The health effects of the bill would be positive as the sexual and reproductive health of young people would improve as venereal diseases and unwanted pregnancies decline. At the same time, access to free contraception would bring young people to professional reception and could even reduce risk behaviour, while other health problems and issues could be noticed and answered. The impact of the bill would be to reduce health inequalities by helping young people, particularly those with low incomes, to realise the change in the law and to ease their financial problems. The gender impact of the bill would be reduced by gender inequality, since responsibility for prevention and its costs is often borne by girls and women. The forthcoming social welfare reform jeopardises the important and cost-effective public health work carried out in the lead municipalities by offering free prevention to young people. Therefore, instead of threatening the end of good practice in these municipalities as a result of the social welfare reform, a successful and cost-effective practice would be extended to the whole of Finland with this change in law. Mr President! I hope that the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will genuinely consider a change of law in accordance with the spirit of the legislative initiative or at least with the spirit of the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-15-ps-114.u232	Mr President! The issue is still very important, although, according to very recent statistics, abortions have been welcome to continue to decline, particularly among young people under the age of 20, but also among older people. It is gratifying that the number of abortions has actually been lower last year than ever since the 1970s. On the other hand, repeated interruptions have increased. Their number has increased, and a large proportion, closer to 40 percent, of abortions were made for women who already had a previous abortion. It is interesting to think about the significance of these costs of prevention, particularly in the event of a repeated interruption. As Mr Sarkkinen said in his speech, there is already good experience of this free-of-charge prevention in some municipalities. Above all, Rauma has been on the agenda, and this is a good example of a municipal policy that should then be followed by good practice in other municipalities. All in all, the investment in prevention always pays off — and this is a matter of literally investing in prevention. I believe that it is worth it, as this example of Rauma shows, even economically, when these costs are reduced, but at the same time it will improve this human aspect, especially for young people who are suffering from illness or this abortion.
