ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u2	Congressman Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u3	Madam President! On Tuesday, an important debate was held in this Chamber on tax havens and tax avoidance at the initiative of the MPs. The debate is very topical. Panama papers have revealed a rampant moral decline among the elite in tax avoidance. During the debate, Congressman Timo Harakka raised an important question, the question of interest relief regulations, which left a loophole in the case of real estate companies. In this context, Mr Harakka stated that Minister Toivakka proved its existence by setting up a real estate investment company in Belgium. In this debate, Minister Toivakka denied being involved in the real estate company and stated that he had not been involved in any kind of arrangement. However, it has now become clear that Mr Haraka's information is correct. Mr President! I would like to ask Minister Toivaka: how do you wish to comment on this today?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u4	Mr President! Indeed, we had a debate on an important issue, and in that debate I explained the fact that in 2007 the family company set up a holding company in which I was a member of the Board of Directors. But what I wanted to say in that debate or, in fact, in my speech at the time is that at no time was I involved in operational activities, not in making decisions to set up this company. But what I want to tell you at this point, Mr President, and all my fellow Members, is that I do understand that when I am a member of the company's board of directors, I take overall responsibility for the company's activities, but in this operational decision I have not been involved in setting up this company. That is what I said on Tuesday in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u5	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u6	Madam President! This was indeed an important debate that took place here. Eliminating tax evasion is an important issue, and it is particularly important that everyone plays their part in this. It is important, in the interests of the country, that the government is active in this matter, and it is particularly important that individual ministers, by their own example, show that the words and actions are one. Mr President! I would like to ask Minister Toivaka once again that now that it has become clear that what Mr Harakka said here on Tuesday is true that you were a member of the board of directors in this company when this company was set up, is there anything you want to say to Parliament and is there anything you want to say to Mrs Haraka?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u7	In this connection, I would firstly like to say, as I have already said to Mrs Haraka, that I apologise and I apologise to the whole House for my inappropriate language here in Parliament in this speech. I would also like to say that I am sorry, and I apologise for the fact that many of my speeches have got the wrong idea of my role in this company that was set up and, above all, in the company. But I would also like to say that, as I said at the time, I have not been involved in operational activities since 2005 when we stopped as a trader. In that sense, I am not involved in this decision-making, but I sincerely want to apologise, as I have just said.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u8	Mr President! I'm glad the Minister is here. Toivakka is ready to apologize in front of Parliament for both his behaviour and his substance. That's a good thing. However, I would like to clarify your speech now, Minister. I would like to hear more about that limited liability company that I have now understood correctly that you have been a member of the board of directors of a limited liability company and that you should at least have been aware of if you have not taken part in the decision that such a company has been set up. This is what I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u9	Mr President! So I've been a member of this company's board of directors until 2008. The company was founded in 2007. The establishment of the company is linked to the operational competence. This operational authority was exercised by the CEO of the company, and I have never been involved in the operational operations or decision-making of this company, not since 2005 when we quit as a trader.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u10	Madam President! The revelations in Panama reveal a harsh language about the size of tax havens and tax evasion in the international system. Unfortunately, this phenomenon has extended its tentacles all the way to Finland. In recent days we have heard not only about tax haven connections between Finnish companies but also about this procedure for citizens. This activity is often carried out through subsidiaries, i.e. holding companies, which have little employees or actual business. Clearly, the fight against tax havens is not the easiest task. It is equally clear that if there is political will, the fight will be worthwhile and it will be successful. Is it there or isn't it there? Now that the whole world and Europe have woken up and it is momentum, time to act, I ask you, Mr Sipilä, what are you going to do to eradicate tax havens? This action will be demolished
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u11	Mr President! As has been said several times here, the government is doing everything in its power to eradicate this issue. We can work on many fronts at national level. Now we have a number of measures in the EU that Finland has a positive influence on, but this is also a matter of value choice for both citizens and companies, how to implement the main principle of taxation, that taxes are paid where the result is generated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u12	Madam President! Prime Minister Sipilä has hoped for a positive outcome in the debate and I would like to raise one positive point. In your government, at least two ministers have experience of tax haven companies, and I hope this will make your work easier now that you have promised to intervene in this tax haven. Madam President! On Tuesday, when the debate took place, Mr Toivakka, in the same speech of about one minute, gave false information to Parliament and, in the same speech, again accused the MP of lying twice. This has given rise to a great deal of emotion when it is known that in the past there has been misinformation about the ministerial box under this government. My question is, Mr Sipilä: how do you now, through your actions, restore the faith of ordinary people in politics so that what the Minister says can be trusted that citizens do not always have to doubt whether what is said in the ministerial box is true?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u13	Mr President! At least part of this crucial parliamentary debate has misunderstood what has been done in practice in this decision to set up. Mr Harakka stated that Minister Toivakka witnessed its existence by setting up a real estate company in Belgium, and Minister Toivakka denies that he was personally setting it up. I guess that's the point we're talking about right now. Minister Toivakka has never denied that he has been a member of the Board of Directors of this Finnish company and therefore legally responsible for this question. He has said this on the basis of today's debate already in the autumn, when this matter was before the debate. So I hope that we will all be able to deal with this matter pragmatically. It is clear that what is said here is true, even though we sometimes have a heated debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u14	Mr President! The Prime Minister is quite right that this is a question of value choice, and the government has a very hard time proving that the government is also serious about tax evasion and tax havens. Ministers have already spoken twice the modified truth to Parliament, and on both occasions it has just been associated with tax evasion. Mr Sipilä, when will this government take concrete action to tackle this problem? When will you produce a programme of measures to combat the shadow economy in Parliament, and will it also include proposals to curb legal tax avoidance, i.e. aggressive tax planning?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u15	Madam President! After all, we had a good debate on Tuesday on two sets, the first grey economy and the second tax avoidance, and in that debate we went over in detail the measures that the government has taken and is doing. I will not repeat them at this stage, but there are six measures on the side of the grey economy, which is also the responsibility of the Minister for the Interior, and then on tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning there are six measures. In this latter, for the sake of Panama Leaks, which I am sure will continue the debate, one of our key areas of action, where we are currently in the forefront, is the OECD and the 15 BEPS measures, and the other is the European Union, and it is the entire ATAD directive, which contains five key measures. This is where we're in the lead.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u16	Mr President! In these discussions over the past few weeks and months, the impression has come to light that this tax haven activity is only just now emerging. I myself remember a summit in 2009 — from the times of the financial crisis — when there was a deep debate on how to put an end to the cooperation of European banks with tax haven countries that refuse to cooperate. And since then there has been a huge amount of international cooperation to tackle this problem. In fact, I ask the Minister for Finance: what do you see now, as if after the inappropriate things, as further steps to be taken?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u17	Madam President! Indeed, we have a package of anti-avoidance measures that have now come out of the EU in January, and there are five key initiatives: (1) the proposal for a directive on anti-avoidance, known as ATAD; (2) a recommendation on questions relating to the tax agreement; (3) a proposal for directives implementing the G20 and OECD country reporting system; (4) information on the external strategy; 5) Commission Staff Working Document, which provides a more detailed analysis to support these initiatives. Of course, we are also having a debate on, for example, country-specific blacklists and public reporting, and Finland will be at the forefront of this debate. If and when capital in this world and in Europe is moving freely, it also means that the exchange of information in this area must be improved in order to collect tax revenue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u18	Madam President! I had not intended to speak in this debate because these two days have been very difficult, but we must intervene because, contrary to what Mr Sipilä said, Minister Toivakka did not mention in his speech on Tuesday that he was a member of the board of directors of this company. He then stressed that he was not in an operational capacity, and he has also stressed this today, although this is not at all relevant in this matter. Section 17 of Chapter 6 of the Act on Shared Companies limits the authority of the Managing Director, i.e. operational management. The CEO cannot set up a company alone, but requires a decision of the Board of Directors or at least an awareness. Only a member of the board is the one who actually sets up the company as a board. That is why it is always a matter of immateriality and the fact that he still does not fully recognise the responsibilities he has to bear, and I am very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u19	No one could find a question about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u20	Madam President! This is his wallet. From this point of view, it is extremely important that the criminal benefit of tax or other financial crime or even drug crime can be restored to society. From this point of view, the government's proposal to bring the proceeds of crime back into the Finnish legal system in exceptional circumstances was very important. In other words, the prosecutor does not have to be able to prove in all circumstances where the property came from to the criminal, but the criminal must prove that it has been legally acquired. This was approved by Parliament on Tuesday. Unfortunately, no opposition representative, who here says that the government has done nothing, was present at the time. I ask Minister Lindström: do you know when this important reform will come into force?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u21	Madam President! Representative Zyskowicz will be at the heart of the matter. It is these practical measures that will help to address this. Losing the proceeds of crime is a big deal. And honestly, this will now implement this EU directive on freezing and confiscating the proceeds of crime. But then this provision was added to this reversed burden of proof and is of great importance in the investigation of these financial crimes. As the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has pointed out in its report, the reversed burden of proof will be more effective in dealing with situations where the proceeds of crime and the origin of property are covered by complex arrangements, for example, to tax havens. You asked me when this was going to come into effect. As soon as possible, there's my answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u23	Mr President! Indeed, we are living in difficult times economically, and that means that many are being compromised. This extends to families with children, pensioners and the unemployed, and there are quite severe cuts in Parliament's relations over the past year and this year. Of course, the big question arises as to how taxes are collected in such a way that everyone is involved in the payment of taxes — that when some are avoided, the burden becomes even more excessive for those who pay. And this is of interest to the citizens. Now I am a little confused about this debate, having listened to the Ministers' answers and also, Mr Sipilä, your answer: how do you react to Mr Toivaka's statements both on Tuesday and today? I mean, do you think this is the case, Prime Minister? Sipilä, the government may once again withdraw and reflect on this government line, also with regard to its own ministers, in relation to how to deal with taxes?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u24	Mr President! There is no doubt here that the government will act and do everything possible to ensure that taxes are as high as possible. In this work, the fight against the shadow economy and, for example, preventing tax haven companies from being used for tax avoidance is at the heart of this. We will do everything we can at European and national level, and we will also show how we will also make state-owned companies an example of these activities in the publication of the State's Corporate Governance Strategy. What Mr Toivakka has said here on Tuesday seems to me to have been dealt with quite carefully. There has been some misunderstanding here and there, and there is a Minister. Worried has clearly said it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u27	Next question, Congressman Halmemenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u28	Mr President! The Government's Resolution on Fennovoima's nuclear power plant states that within six years of the adoption of the Resolution, the company must submit either an agreement on nuclear waste co-operation with existing waste managers or an environmental impact assessment programme for its own disposal facility. That deadline expires at the end of June. Posiva insists that Olkiluoto's disposal facilities are for the core waste of TVO and Fortum. The Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority expects Fennovoima to provide possible location alternatives, and Minister Rehn has repeatedly urged companies to agree that waste will end up in Olkiluoto in one final disposal site. Mr President! I ask Minister Rehn whether you intend to act in accordance with the statement of principle or whether you intend to allow a procedure in which Fennovoima could continue to leave open the question of whether nuclear waste will eventually be placed in Olkiluoto's premises in Posiva, or
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u29	Madam President! Of course, the government will comply with the law and we will act in accordance with this decision of principle. It is true, as you said, that Fennovoima has two options: either to conclude a cooperation agreement with those responsible for waste management by the end of June or to draw up an environmental impact assessment programme. When the government looks at the matter specifically as an overall benefit of society, it is clearly better to find a solution to this issue through cooperation. In the first place, all nuclear waste produced in Finland could be disposed of in one place if it is only technically possible and if that space is sufficient. According to the Nuclear Energy Act, the Government also has the possibility, if necessary, to co-operate with those responsible for waste management.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u30	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u31	Mr President! It is clear that nuclear waste ends up either in Olkiluoto of Eurajoki or in another locality in Finland. Even because of the right of veto of municipalities Fennovoima cannot declare at this stage anything binding on the locality. However, an environmental impact assessment programme cannot be drawn up for imaginary localities. The issue of waste is important for the assessment of the financial risk of the project and is essential for the examination of construction permits. Opinions on the application for a building permit must be submitted this week. It is the economy, nuclear expertise, safety and waste management that have been assessed for shortcomings in the application. Fennovoima has not provided the required technical documentation to the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Centre in a comprehensive manner. Minister Rehn, are you going to instruct your ministry to take these shortcomings seriously, to deal with the shortcomings, and are you going to demand Fennovoima to complete its permit application without delay? And, at the same time, do you intend to extend the period of consultation so that the parties and the experts concerned can:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u32	Mr President! In fact, Congressman Halmenpää had quite a battery of questions here. I'm trying to answer what I have time to answer. First of all, the deadline is indeed 30 June either to negotiate an agreement or to draw up an environmental impact assessment programme. Negotiations are currently under way between Posiva Oy on the one hand and Fennovoima Oy on the other as to whether they will find a compromise, i.e. whether they will be able to conclude a joint agreement on the management of nuclear waste between these companies. Negotiations are under way, and that is positive, and it is now essential that Fennovoima actually acts in accordance with the obligations of this decision in principle.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u33	Mr President! In the case of Fennovoima, the letter of decisions has already been stretched many times. The original decision of principle itself was changed when the whole project changed when the German E.ON changed to the Russian Ros atom. Last summer, when Fennovoima was unable to demonstrate the required share of domestic or EU ownership by the deadline, the Ministry in practice gave further time to exert pressure on Fortum in order to meet this domestic ownership criterion set by the previous Parliament. Is Mr Rehn really going to continue this line now that the letter of law and decisions is being stretched out in the case of Fennovoima, that is to say, that the conditions laid down in Parliament's decision in principle and the deadlines for which do not actually hold?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u34	Mr President! This question by Mr Hassi was quite recharged. There were many assumptions here that were not true. Firstly, there was no pressure on Fortum, and secondly, last summer, when this issue about Fennovoima's actual domestic ownership was dealt with, it was done in accordance with the legal guidelines issued by the Attorney General's Office, in full compliance with the book, and there is nothing that should cause any doubt about the lawfulness of the case. And, of course, this time we are also following the law and the decision of principle that has been adopted by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u35	Madam President! If the Fennovoima project is a problem with final disposal, then it is also the origin of the fuel. Apparently, uranium will be purchased from the Bejak reprocessing plant in Russia. The same place deals, among other things, with the plutonium of Russian nuclear weapons, because in Russia the nuclear industry, both civilian and military, is moving hand in hand. This is an activity that the government wanted Finland to commit to. We disagree on that. But apparently the reason for getting fuel there is that it is much cheaper than anywhere else, and the reason is that environmental standards and requirements are very low. Is Minister Rehn concerned about the environmental damage we are causing outside the borders in order to get fuel to this domestic nuclear power plant? If you are concerned about it, what are the government's means and efforts to influence it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u36	Mr President! I am concerned about both the environment and nuclear safety, and in Finland the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority is responsible for a thorough evaluation of all nuclear activities, especially nuclear safety. I dare say that: The Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority is the world's leading player in its field of nuclear power and nuclear safety analysis, and so is the case this time with Fennovoima, as with other nuclear power plants operating in Finland, of course. As far as the origin of the nuclear power plant's fuel is concerned, we currently have four nuclear power plants in Finland, two of which are Russian, and their fuel comes mainly from the same source.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u37	Mr President! Fortum's units in Loviisa are coming to the end of their service life in the next ten years. The place already has all the necessary infrastructure, and it is an important employer for the residents of both Eastern Uusimaa and our Kymenlaakso. I would like to ask the corresponding minister whether there have been any government discussions on the extension of this Loviisa nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u38	Mr President! There have been no discussions in the government on the licensing or extension of the Loviisa nuclear power plants. As far as the possible plans for Loviisa nuclear power plant are concerned, of course, it is primarily in the hands of the company, and if the company submits an application, then the nuclear energy law will be followed, and the Government and Parliament will of course, together with the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Centre, take responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u39	Mr President! As has been said, Finnish nuclear waste know-how is appreciated in the world. Posiva radiates positively all the way to Japan. When I visited there last autumn, the first thing that was asked was a cavern. It bent in Japanese and already bends in many other languages. We need export products. How do you, Minister, see Finnish nuclear expertise, nuclear power expertise and final disposal of nuclear waste as export products to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u40	Mr President! The Finnish Nuclear Energy Act is very clear and defines for us the national frameworks for the production and exploitation of nuclear power, where, of course, Parliament plays a very central role. As far as nuclear waste management and nuclear power plants are concerned, we are at the forefront of the world, in the same way as the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Centre. The world has a great deal of interest in Finnish nuclear safety technology. I welcome this and, among other things, with Minister Toivaka and other ministers, we have done the related export promotion work. I feel that it is also part of the strengthening of nuclear safety outside Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u41	Mr President! Yes, Fennovoima’s core project has been a tragedy in many ways and many mistakes have been made over the years in the preparation of the matter. Now, in this situation, the final disposal, the hollow, here we are thinking about, came to an end, because in the 1990s there was no desire to export waste to Russia, to the same region where Fennovoima would now be seeking, here in the Majak region, this fuel. In other words, this is also quite a problem for the environment. But, Mr President, there are other risks to this project. The European Union has made great efforts to improve energy self-sufficiency and security of supply, to develop the Energy Union, and as part of this, we in Finland should strengthen the Nordic and Baltic electricity networks, mobilise investments in them to make the market work better, and mobilise domestic renewable energy to improve this energy self-sufficiency. I would like to hear what Finland is doing about this. I would also like to ask Minister Orpo whether you have the opportunity to comment more on what Mr Supo has said: what does it have to do with the fact that over the past year foreign intelligence has been trying to influence
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u42	First, Minister Rehn.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u43	Mr President! It is very valuable that Mr Niinistö returns this debate to the big picture, because Finland's energy policy and energy economy are primarily directed towards renewable energy. That is the main direction, and we will do different things to strengthen it. Among other things, the national energy strategy will also address the way in which the renewable energy support system can be reformed so that the very ambitious 50% targets will be achieved in the next decade and will also be done cost-effectively and the electricity market will function well. The efforts to strengthen the Nordic electricity market are ongoing and part of the Government's work on energy safety and security of supply in Finland. Among other things, we are trying not only to improve the functioning of this electricity market, but also to ensure that we have a new interconnection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u44	Madam President! Perhaps one phenomenon today is that international espionage and espionage on knowledge, technology, has increased or is certainly at least at the level of previous years. If there are major nuclear projects, energy projects, new technologies that are being developed in Finland, there will certainly also be interest from various actors around the world. To that, what you asked me about, I can say that this has not been on the table at the moment in discussions with the safety authorities. But it is certainly a matter of interest and importance that should be followed up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u45	Next question, Stefan Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u46	Irade the Talman! I morgon på effectmiddage tar utrikesminister Soini emot den estrosedda rapporten om vika effekter ett Nato-medlemskap skulle ha för Finland. Det är den första regeringsbestallda NATO-rapporten som görs hos oss sedan ambassadör Antti Sierlas enmansrapport år 2007.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u47	Madam President! This question by Mr Wallin was an excellent one. The government recorded in its program that it will commission this kind of NATO assessment. It has been commissioned by experts, so it is not a government proposal, it is the opinion of experts. These experts were selected from a large group and were selected by foreign policy management. The security situation both in Europe and in the neighbouring regions and in the world is very challenging, and it is therefore good to go through all these issues with passion. I believe that this report, the content of which will be public tomorrow at 3.30 p.m. — I cannot comment on its content, will produce this debate and will be of great benefit to the country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u48	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u49	Mr President! Sweden is currently having a very lively NATO debate, especially after all four bourgeois parties decided to take a positive stance. In Sweden, the Finnish NATO report and the debate around it will also be followed very closely. The most important thing here in Finland, however, is that our conversation will be good and that something will be left in hand. What does the government hope will be left in the hands of this coming debate?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u50	Madam President! Firstly, this debate in Sweden. It is very valuable for Finland and Sweden to step up cooperation on foreign and security policy. It's for the benefit of both of us. It is an excellent line, a long line, and it has the strong support of the Finnish people in all measurements. In Sweden, too, the NATO debate has collapsed, and it is also very interesting to see how this is going in Sweden. However, it is quite clear that Finland and Sweden themselves will decide where they are going if they are going anywhere. It is very important that cooperation between Finland and Sweden — whether NATO or not — goes ahead and deepens.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u51	Madam President, fru talman! It is easy to agree with these reasonable assessments made here by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. However, I did not find an answer to Mrs Wallin's question in your reply. The question was how we Members of Parliament will be able to engage in dialogue with you on this NATO evaluation, because at least I would like — and I believe many others would — to have this debate with you, Mr Foreign Minister, for example in this Chamber. At least in my opinion it would serve democracy, and since this report was born by the government's agreement in its government programme that this kind of thing should be done, I think it should be democracy that then the government would have to discuss this with Parliament. What do you think, Prime Minister, is it possible to arrange this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u53	Mr President! There will be a number of opportunities for discussion on this issue with the report on foreign and security policy, with the report on defence policy, and it will always be possible to hold a topical debate in Parliament. There's been a lot of them, too. Next week's going on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u54	Mr President! The Finnish Defence Information Planning Board published its annual survey recently, according to which more and more Finns are uncertain about their position on Finland’s membership of NATO. "The proportion of respondents in the most recent survey was more than Finland now needs a fact-based NATO debate to enable citizens to form their own opinions based on the right information. It is essential that we have a bold debate. That is why I have today collected names here in Parliament for an initiative which will be submitted to the President today and which proposes a topical debate on this NATO assessment. It was great to hear that it would happen to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u55	I don't think there's a question here either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u56	Mr President! This report is one part of the preparation of a broader report on foreign and security policy. Its timetable, as I understand it, is still that it will be brought to Parliament in June. Against this background, I think it is quite right that all the material — the whole wide security policy and the issues affecting it — should be on the table at the same time. This is not a NATO issue in one direction or another, but it is a much wider question of how Finland places itself and how we take care of the safety and well-being of Finland and Finland. I believe that the report, if it comes to June, is the right place where all the preparatory material relating to it can be in Parliament. I would ask you to be sure that this timetable will now be kept in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u57	Madam President! Yeah, we're on schedule. The Government will submit a report on foreign and security policy in June. This is true of what the representative of the Judgments said. We need a comprehensive debate. This NATO assessment is an expert assessment. The government will then issue a report which will be discussed here, which will go to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which will issue a report. Similarly, the government will bring an internal security report and a defence report. Today the world is so complex, not all of them can be separated, but they go on a limb and limb, such as internal security, risk people, terrorism, intelligence, many of these types. It is quite clear that, in this context, this assessment will of course be accompanied by this comprehensive study and report. I really hope that this issue will be discussed, because we in Finland have had an excellent line in that we have had one foreign and security policy that has had:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u58	Mr President! It is probably good that the NATO study has been carried out as part of this larger package. But I would have asked Minister Soin, now that you have followed the debate in the European Union and also the Nordic debate on their role as a security community, your assessment: how much has the European Union already changed over the last year in the direction of putting security at the heart of the debate since the Paris terrorist attack? In a sense, we also have more options at our table than before to deepen Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u59	Madam President! That's right. The European Union is also a security community. It is quite clear that, for example, these terrorist attacks in Paris and Belgium have activated the Treaty of Lisbon, the so-called Article 222 and also Article 427. This has triggered a decision to strengthen the training of the Peshmerga forces in Erbil, for example, in this Chamber. On the other hand, all the foreign ministers from the Nordic countries will come here on Monday and this security policy debate will be under way in the Nordic context. It is also useful in the sense that there are both NATO countries and non-military countries, such as Sweden and Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u60	Next question, Päivi Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u61	Madam President! Minister Rehula, responsible for social welfare and health care reform and its preparation, promised, on behalf of the Sote Government, a goal before the leaf bursts into the tree. We are beginning to see loopholes in the trees, so I would like to ask what timetable the government is in the process of completing that social reform and whether the government has come to an agreement on many of the difficult issues involved: the incorporation of public services, financing, freedom of choice and other related issues. What's the status?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u62	Madam President! The days of the past winter have by no means been repulsive to me. In a serious and big case, we will need all the days available to us to be able, within the agreed time frame, to bring to the consultation the whole package of laws containing (1) the Law on Social Affairs and Health Care, (2) the Administrative Law, which is the Regional Law, (3) the Financial Articles, and (4) the structured basis for further preparation so that the freedom of choice legislation can be implemented within the given time. Your Honour! Finland is a large country, and in some parts of the country a birch leaf comes a little later than here on the south coast to warm up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u63	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions about this to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u64	Madam President! It is indeed a good thing that this is carefully prepared, because there are quite a lot of questions and concerns about this reform, from the point of view of citizens, public service workers and then companies providing services. Today it has been reported that private care Kela compensations are being abolished in the context of the social welfare reform. At the same time, the Kela allowances received by employers would be reduced and occupational health care would focus only on maintaining working ability and well-being. On the other hand, this question of freedom of choice has raised questions as to how these small service providers will be able to cope with international health services for entrepreneurs in the future. I would now like to ask you whether the social security reform seeks savings by reducing the current functioning of occupational health care services or how it is ensured that these are:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u65	Madam President! Mr Räsänen, you listed a number of issues which should be able to be answered, at least 15 minutes from each title, justifiably, where the preparation is currently taking place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u68	Madam President! The objective of increasing that freedom of choice is good for you, but it can also include the risk that health services will be incorporated into the company and then a large part of health services supported by Finnish tax resources will be produced by supranational companies. It is very possible that the tax revenue will be passed on to these transnational companies, who may transfer profits from Finland through transfer pricing or also, for example, through various interest rebates. Has this matter been taken into account when considering this incorporation and funding, that this does not lead us to have certain health company monopolies, which are not known about the willingness to pay taxes to Finland? This is already true, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u70	Madam President! There are many threats to this whole, many risks and many risks. In November last year, the Government has stated that those who will be service providers — whether private or public — and whose services will be paid for by public funds must be transparent. We must put the legislation in a position to ensure that the activities of these players are transparent. This is the model and solution that are being built with the obligations of the law. I admit, there are risks and threats, but the answer to this question is to ensure that those risks and threats do not materialise.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u71	Madam President! As a former minister, with responsibility for social security, I understand very well that Minister Rehula will take any additional days in the preparation process with full satisfaction. But the government is now making very historic, fundamentally far-reaching decisions, and many are concerned about this requirement for the incorporation of public services. We all know that the basis for strong public service provision is an essential condition for comparing prices, for example, quality, and many social welfare professionals are very concerned about how to achieve this integration, seamless service chains, in a world of increasing hatches. Now, Minister Ruhula, what estimates, expert assessments or financial impact assessments do you base this idea on the fact that the benefits of these mergers are so significant that it is worth leaving for this historic revolution?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u72	Madam President! The National Institute for Health and Welfare (THL) is currently carrying out — and I know that with the nightday — an impact assessment of the second objective, in addition to safeguarding people's welfare services where necessary, and that is that we will be able to cope with the current level of spending in this country within the next ten years, with the current spending structure of 3 billion less. What is the basis for this integration? It can be 1) structural, it can be 2) functional, 3) integration of information will be a key factor in ensuring that access to care and care, for example, is good wherever it is in the country. For example, this integration of knowledge is a big revvoka, where a strong state will be needed to make those benefits of integration available.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u73	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee, to which the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u74	Mr President! It is good that the citizens' initiative raises the problems of the euro in the debate. It is regrettable that there was no referendum on the euro in due course. The Swedes once rejected euro membership by their own referendum. hindsight is the cheapest form of wisdom, but it still has to be said that the creation of the euro as it is today and Finland joining it was a mistake. The euro does not explain the problems of the Finnish economy on its own, but it is part of the problem. At present, the euro is not working in an ideal way. In particular, peripheral countries, including Finland, lose to them in too strong a currency, while Germany at the heart of the euro area benefits from undervalued currency. Euro countries are too diverse in terms of conditions and economic development. The rules for the single currency will eventually be defined by the large countries, and the exchange rate will largely be determined according to the situation in the big countries. The EU countries are attached to a common course, which often does not correspond to the situation in many Member States. Too strong a currency also makes Finland’s recovery more difficult, and the possibility of devaluation has been removed from Finland. Monetary policy has been removed from the economic toolbox. Of course, there are some positive aspects to the euro. For example, it facilitates trade and tourism. However, the current problems are considerable in terms of benefits. The euro was intended to strengthen the Union, but since the start of the crisis it has mainly caused strife and divided EU countries into euro countries and non-euro countries, debtors and creditors. The monetary union is difficult to make work without a deep economic union, but the question is: are the Member States ready for it? Since the single currency is not matched by a common economic policy, a rule jungle has been built around the euro. In the name of the single currency, a sensible economic policy is being restricted and an economic policy is being implemented that reduces and causes unemployment. When each country tries to improve its price competitiveness by cutting wages and public consumption and thus also imports, they also cut export opportunities from other countries, as much of the exports from the euro countries are destined for the Union. There is a spiral towards the base where everyone loses the round round, since one of them is imported by another. Mood cutting reduces the economy and creates a new need for cutting. Mr President! The correction of the euro must begin immediately. The usefulness of the current economic discipline rules must be questioned and redefined at EU level in order to increase the room for manoeuvre of economic and employment policy. Economic discipline has become an obstacle to reducing unemployment and, as a result, it is working against its objectives in order to exacerbate unemployment and the problems of public finances. The main task of the European Central Bank should be to reduce unemployment and allow Member States to borrow a limited amount directly from the central bank in relation to their holdings. The current economic discipline rules are grotesquely guiding the euro countries into creative accounting before the crisis by the Greek governments, which has rightly been criticised in this Chamber. Instead of an artificial gross debt limit, genuine economic sustainability should be considered. Unfortunately, this creative accounting has been inspired by the current government and plans to transfer large amounts of public assets to companies, at least partly based on economic discipline criteria.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u77	Mr President! The citizens' initiative is an expression of active citizenship. It is a willpower that must be respected by the representative of representative democracy. The citizens' initiative is a common expression of will among all signatories. There have been different views on how to deal with this initiative, since it also contains an important element of economic policy. So it is not just a constitutional initiative. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs asks for an opinion from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and the initiative will therefore receive proper and thorough consideration. The citizens' initiative aims to organise a referendum. Paavo Lipponen and Sauli In time, they did not let the people decide. The people were deprived of a common and equal piece of democracy, that is to say, the right to vote. In a situation where the euro is playing with its alliances, people who are pro- and against the euro can support the holding of a referendum. Mr President! The basic problem with the euro area is that the euro is too cheap for Germany and too expensive for the rest of Europe. The euro area does not meet the conditions of an optimal currency union. Democratic legitimacy has deteriorated, and it is no wonder that citizens want their voices heard. The breakdown of monetary union or the euro gap has not been formally addressed. However, Finland must be prepared for different possibilities. Stefan Törnqvist has suspected that a 5% productivity leap will not be sufficient to restore the euro-Finland economy. In fact, he needs a conscious and well thought-out strategy, not drifting as a drifter. According to Vesa Kanniainen, the University of Helsinki processor, the euro can be separated from the euro. He bases his ideas on Euro Think Tank, a research group, on the ETT reports. It is therefore important to assess the options that Finland has. The ETT has proposed three options. The first of these is the driftwood option, in which Finland would be involved in federal development without a clear objective and would adopt policies dictated by other countries. This is the driftwood that Mr Törnqvist referred to, and this is not a good option for Finland, according to my own assessment. Another option is littering. This would leave the possibility of a euro separation later on, and at this stage Finland would separate itself from federal development and go back unilaterally to the Maastricht Treaty, the same treaty that all Member States commit to but have not complied with. The EU has always been able to ignore its own rules. The third option is the so-called fixit. The EESC considers the euro gap to be a realistic option but politically difficult to implement. Heikki, Doctor of Political Science According to Koskenkylä, this would greatly alleviate the need for economic adjustment, but would entail different transition costs. However, according to ETT estimates, Finland would remain a net recipient. At the moment, the opposite is the case. I can therefore warmly recommend a good assessment by Heikki Koskenkylä of these different options. The departure of Finland from the euro is like a prisoner escaping from prison. To quote the mayor of London, Boris Johnson, it is as if the guard had accidentally left the door open and people could see the sunny country on the other side. That is how Mr Johnson described the situation where Britain is at the moment, and the situation can also be described in what we can do, in this citizens' initiative. Mr President! If this citizens' initiative does not lead to a referendum, it is necessary to carry out a formal impact assessment of the effects of the euro and to formulate different options so that they can be implemented if monetary union threatens to break down or Finland remains in the role of driftwood in the development of the EU. I would encourage all Members of Parliament to support the opportunity for citizens to express their views on the issue of euro membership, because no matter what happens, the people will know.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u78	Mr President! I feel that this citizens' initiative is quite an attempt to push the problems of our economy elsewhere, even though these problems have arisen from us. Our economic problems stem from us, not the euro. We have not been able to manage our economy without two-digit devaluations once in ten years, which was the economic history of Finland before we joined this euro. Indeed, two-digit devaluations every ten years and every once in a while a miserable economic policy required that the course be corrected. There have been many mistakes along the way in such a way that no one has actually succeeded in this internal devaluation. The criteria were such that Germany, for example, which is currently very brisk, was not able to meet these criteria, but was actually the first to break these rules. We in Finland are guilty that we are not in the same condition as Germany, of course the governments, the parliament and the interest groups that have not been able to adapt to this new world order, that is, that we cannot deal with Finland's financial problems once every ten years through devaluation. In addition, there have been a great many other problems, namely the inclusion in the euro area of countries that should never have been included. One of these countries is Greece, which should never have been included. But there have also been countries whose economies have been so shaken that they have become a burden to this whole euro area. Fortunately, many countries have now learned: Spain has learned quite well, Ireland has learned quite well, and Portugal is learning too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u81	Mr President! Our legislation does not recognise or know an element in which citizens can directly decide on a specific issue. There is only a representative decision-making method, which is also represented by an advisory referendum, because the referendum is actually a consultative one. A referendum can only be held by a parliamentary decision, i.e. on request, and the final decision-making power over the consequences of voting is also the responsibility of Parliament. If an advisory referendum is to be held, then we ask for advice and not to be sure of our own position as legislators. In time, when it comes to monetary union membership, Parliament has not asked for advice. Has it not been needed, or what is the reason? In any case, the situation is that, in the light of current information, many MPs who had decided on monetary union at the time have based their decisions on erroneous assumptions. Mr President! In my opinion, Finland's membership of EMU and monetary union in general includes elements and many uncertainties and dimensions that should be consulted by the people. If the MP has a firm position on Finland’s membership of the Monetary Union, then I do not really understand asking for advice. Mr President! This citizens' initiative as such is a political measure aimed at providing Parliament with advice on Finland's membership of the Monetary Union. So now we're asking if we want to hear from the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u82	Mr President! It is good that we can have an open debate on the development and future direction of the EU and the euro. As stated in this citizens' initiative, the decision to join the euro area was taken in Parliament in the spring of 98. It is true, as the text of the citizens' initiative states, that Finland has suffered more from its membership of the euro area than most other Member States, and it is also true that the euro area has not developed as it was presented to Parliament in 98. But it is also true, Mr President, that Finland has also benefited from belonging to the euro area. On the other hand, it should also be noted that Finland has not been able to reform its economy, which cannot be attributed solely to the euro. Finland could also have been able to cope with the single currency if the economic structures had been corrected in good time. Mr President! In this situation, as I said, there is a need for an open debate on the future of both the EU and the euro area. In June, Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the EU Commission, announced the plan to finalise the European Economic and Monetary Union. The report is also backed up by the Presidents of the European Council, the Eurogroup, the ECB and the European Parliament. This report by the so-called five Presidents is a powerful driving force for federal development through economic and monetary union. The Commission Communication focuses on short-term measures. However, it clearly states that all these measures should be seen as steps towards a genuine economic and monetary union in 10 years' time, towards a central economic, financial, fiscal and political union. Mr President! The Government's position on the Commission's communication on EMU is critical, which can be enjoyed. However, there are a few points which need to be tightened up further. For example, the crisis management fund for bank bankruptcies should not increase solidarity prematurely through state guarantees. The most important short-term financial proposal is probably the establishment of a common deposit guarantee scheme. Then banks operating in Finland would also be involved in the payment of the bankruptcy of banks in other Member States and would collect the money they needed from their customers. Mr President! The KD has opposed increased solidarity and supported market discipline. When the markets operate, weak economic management in the Member States leads to higher interest rates on central government debt and good financial management to lower interest rates. Market discipline-Emu forces Member States to take care of business conditions, safety, well-functioning infrastructure, trained workforce and its innovativeness. The completion of EMU is a cause for great concern in the parliaments, governments and also among the citizens of the Member States. The five presidents' report, as I said, seeks to deepen the EU at economic, financial, budgetary and political levels. This brings new bureaucratic bodies, less transparency and takes decision-making further away from the citizens. Now is the time to take a position on the first stage of the three stages of progress. This should be discussed in depth in national parliaments before taking the next steps in this process. The course of economic growth policy is wrong if it loses sight of entrepreneurship and the importance of the family, as the basis for the five presidents' report, with integration having major consequences for all national democracies in Europe. Mr President! Finally, independent monetary policy brings benefits, just as the citizens' initiative states, but it is no shortcut to happiness if we do not make a sensible economic policy. It is good to remember that there are also drawbacks to devaluation. The impact or costs of leaving the euro area in Finland are hardly addressed in the initiative, so it is practically impossible to assess what impact such a decision would have on, for example, Finland’s liabilities and, for example, government debt and government interest expenditure. KD supports an in-depth analysis of the benefits of staying in the euro
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u83	Mr President! Indeed, I remember the year 94 when there was a vote on EU membership. At the time, I started law school and really heard nothing but the pleasure of becoming international and having a great world to come and now everything to the EU. Later on, life progressed, and indeed I followed the policy itself, and I noticed that in 98 C.E., we did not really vote on euro membership, and at least I personally understood at the time that this has never been discussed. I didn't know I was going to vote on this in the first place. I think it is a great thing that this is being discussed, and I think it is very important that people can be consulted on this, but of course this is quite a long way from now on in the sense that we cannot go back to such a clean, authentic situation. I do not know why, under the leadership of the SDP and the Coalition Party, this idea of interpretation has then been taken, since then Sweden and Denmark have at least interpreted this Maastricht Treaty differently, according to this initiative. I do not want to influence the way in which the citizens themselves want to vote on this issue, if such a vote takes place, but this initiative talks about the fact that if anyone wants to vote for euro membership, they accept that we are a debt union and a supranational federal state. I personally at least believe and hope that we will continue to be able to influence the EU so that we have as much autonomy as possible. I am very surprised by many EU regulations, and we often face the fact that we cannot provide for this because we are hindered by mandatory EU legislation. In that sense, I was actually thinking about the fact that this person who has received the most publicity, who has taken this initiative, why he has not asked to vote on EU membership, because the things that are also being raised here are affecting EU membership so that the euro is not the only problem or pleasure, no matter how anyone wants to see it. I asked my assistant to take a look, even though this is not directly linked to the euro, with all the crazy things that the EU has become in recent years. I thought a few of them were funny. Such a title as revealing clothing: the EU has wondered whether it would be better to care for the clothing of people working outdoors when they are too exposed to the sun, and this is now specifically related to Bavarian waiters, and then they are campaigning against it again. In addition, found such rubber boots manuals that they should be in twelve different languages. Then there was this curved throat discussion at one time or another, and that ended with the fact that it was not fixed. But all this is special, and I remember that in this time, the current representative of the Finnish People, Sampo Terho, wrote — whether or not 2003, was — that he had studied the fact that there were 4500 different orders found in the milk. There is a lot of red tape there, and that will not be resolved with this membership of the euro. That is what I was thinking just now when I listened to Mr Salolainen's speech and he spoke very positively about the euro, and I looked at the news in Finland when Commissioner Katainen on 23 April said that nationalists and populists were very dangerous. In the debate, he even compared them to terrorists and felt that there is currently such a perception among EU citizens that integration should be deepened. I do not know now where these views of Katainen are based and who he meant by them, but if you look at nationalism according to its definition it is nationalism and the desire to preserve your identity and self-determination and this kind of thing. It occurred to me whether these citizens' initiative makers, even Katainen, would feel like such nationalists or even terrorists of some kind when looking at this kind of writing. I don't know what he was looking for with this. But I think that a critical debate and a very questionable one is very welcome and should never be stopped. I personally believe that we must have the courage to listen to the citizens on this issue. I should have done this a long time ago.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u84	Mr President! The right time for the referendum would have been before Finland joined the monetary union and the euro. The Greens did so at the time, but unfortunately our proposal did not respond adequately. The problems that are now at hand were also raised in the parliamentary debate before Finland joined the monetary union. I myself said this in May 97: 'At the end of the next economic downturn, i.e. the economic downturn in the EMU area, there will be a strong political demand for a common economic policy in the EMU area. At this stage, there are two options, the first being that the need for a common economic policy in itself is widely recognised, but there is no political courage to create the decision-making structures that a common economic policy would require. If this happens, it can have very damaging consequences for the economic development of the whole region. The second option is that such pressure creates, at least in some way or in some form, decision-making structures that are also capable of managing economic policy-making. If we go to that stage and Finland is a member of the EMU at that stage, I will probably support the option of creating these decision-making structures at that stage." Well, Mr Salolainen is quite right that mistakes have been made, among other things, in the inclusion of countries that should not have been admitted, such as Greece, as members of monetary union. However, we should aim to strengthen the EU and not weaken it. We need a viable Union so that we can work together to address challenges such as climate change, terrorism and refugees.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u89	Mr President! It is always very important that citizens' initiatives are properly dealt with here in Parliament. In my view, Mr Paavo Väyrynen's initiative concerns a very important issue, and I should therefore like to thank Mr Väyry for bringing this important issue to the public debate, even though we are quite different about this euro gap. The difference from the euro would be a leap into the unknown, which is not worth doing now. But at the same time, we must remember that there is both good and right in the European Monetary Union. This public image has often been that, when the euro was joined, we did not really understand its consequences or were not considered. The fact is, however, that in Finland the impact of membership was considered in a very diverse way before decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u98	I can see the minister is in a hurry. How busy is it? I would like to give the floor to the representatives of all the parliamentary groups before the Minister makes the first speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u99	Mr President! There is a citizens' initiative which has been signed by 53425 citizens. They believe that a referendum should be held on Finland's membership of the euro, in which the implications of membership to date and the threats and risks of the future would be reported. A referendum was included in the Finnish Constitution in 1987. At the initiative of the Aho Government, in 94 C.E., citizens were able to vote on accession to the European Union. The vote had two options: the voter had to answer either 'yes' or 'no' the question as to whether Finland should join the European Union in accordance with the agreement negotiated. The ‘yes’ option supported 57% of voters and Parliament respected the will of the people and decided by 152 votes in favour, 45 against and accepted Finland's membership of the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u104	Secretary Stubb, two minutes on site. Well, you can come to the toilet. — 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u105	Mr President! Every citizens' initiative that is brought to the great Chamber and can be found here is valuable, and I think it is just as valuable that the citizen's initiative is here today to listen to our debate. Perhaps, in a nutshell, one could say that the government's line and the main message is that leaving the euro area at this stage would be extremely damaging to the Finnish economy and uncertainty about the continuation of the euro-denominated agreements in general, the exchange rate of its own currency, interest rates and so on would cause us great damage both in the short term and in the long term. Nor would it solve the economic and structural problems of our country. That is our first conclusion. The second conclusion is that it is true that there are problems in economic and monetary union, but they have already been corrected and they will continue to be corrected, and at this stage it makes sense for Finland to concentrate all its resources on solving the problems, not on creating new problems. There are two elements in my speech: the first is a few comments on threats and risks, and the second is about the future of EMU. Probably if Finland were to depart from the euro, Finland's international position would be weakened. We would probably end up in a situation where we would have a fairly long-term, ultimately unsustainable monetary and exchange rate turmoil. We would also end up in a difficult situation in which all the agreements that we have concluded in euro, i.e. debts, mortgages and trade agreements, are entirely dependent on the relationship between the exchange rate of our new currency and the euro, and the direction of monetary policy would be rather difficult to assess. Would it be tighter than it is at the moment or looser than it is at the moment? Our land risk would be high, and we would very likely end up in a situation where our interest rates would go up quite suddenly. We have made various model simulations of what a change of currency can in practice mean for our exports. As a rule of thumb, we in the Economics Department have the fact that if the exchange rate goes up by 5% or down by 5%, its effects on exports are either 2% up or 2% down, and in this case its effects on gross domestic product are about 0.3% up or down depending on the low direction. The second point relates to the future of Emu. When we went into the crisis of the euro, we were in a rather classic EU situation, that is, the EU always develops through three stages, first of which is a crisis, then chaos is created and an imperfect solution is created in the final game. And that is what EU action and the euro are all too often about. However, a great deal has been done in this Chamber too: the adopted two-pack, six-pack legislative packages, the banking union, the supervisory mechanisms and the resolution mechanisms. At the same time, a financial union is being built, which therefore includes the Banking Union and the Main Market Union. Let us invest, as many speakers have said, in investor responsibility, in the clarification and improvement of the rules, which were otherwise discussed in Amsterdam during the informal Eurogroup meetings last week, and in general consider how structural reforms can be carried out throughout the Eurosystem. However, I myself would draw three conclusions according to a short formula. When you look at the positives and negatives of Finland's possible euro difference in 2016, the minus side has much more filling than the plus side. That would be an uncertainty factor. The second is that it is important that Finland is involved in developing and building the euro and the euro area and the future of EMU. And the third reference, perhaps directly to this citizens' initiative and its basic assumption of a supranational federal state: I still dare say, perhaps in part as Minister of Finance, but more as an EU researcher, that the European Union, including its currency, will always be more than an international organisation, but less than a federal state. I do not see the possibility that the EU is suddenly taking a step towards some kind of federal system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u106	Well, a few replies. Let's take it in this context. Reply, Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u107	Mr President! When Mr Viitanen referred to the agreements concluded by Soin in this case of the Greek aid package, a little correction must be made to this incorrect interpretation. It must be remembered that this commitment to support Greece has already come about through the famous Urp papers in which he made the guarantees, the famous guarantees that Finland commits to supporting these Member States through this ESM in their crises. This money, which was now promised to Greece, is not an addition to the Finnish budget or to any other budget, but is from the ESM and EFSM funds, which have already been cut down in time. More than EUR 500 billion have been made available there, and this money is now being distributed. In that sense, Mr Viitanen, your mention was wrong, but I would also like to remember that this government:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u108	Mr President! I remember those debates when we were discussing the euro area here. After all, the euro area was limited when Sweden and England and so on were left out. Among other things, I remember, a report was made by the Centre, Vice-President Pekkarinen was in charge of it, and it was found that, when EMU became a narrow currency union, it would also be advantageous for Finland to opt out of EMU for the time being. To offset inflation and interest rate risks, a floating rate or second membership and disciplined fiscal policy would enable Finland to move forward at the same time as the countries that remain outside EMU, which is important to us. Mr President! This was a balanced, good performance. Unfortunately, we lost it then. We would have looked at the situation better with Sweden. Now it is a question of where Emu is now developing. Are we going in the direction of market discipline or are we going in the direction of a close Union? Indeed, when the EU is being developed, we are talking about a deeper, genuine or closer euro area. Now that these plans are being scratched a little more closely, it is easy to ask the question of greater solidarity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u109	Mr President! Yes, Finland has benefited from membership of the euro. It has brought stability and predictability to our economy. It has benefited our export companies and many of us in the housing sector, for whom interest rates have remained relatively low. Yet, of course, it must be acknowledged that this is not a perfect creation. There are gaps in these infrastructures that need to be addressed with certainty. But I must say, Mr President, that in this debate it seems very strange that last season the policy of getting the tubes off, known as the basic Finns' slogan here, has now become the Soini 2 and Soini 3 package, because of this involvement in the government, how many of these have now been changed to the Soini 2 and Soini 3 package?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u114	Mr President! It is good that this citizens' initiative has been taken and I have signed it myself. After meditating on these EU issues, I guess I will be if you clean up the first-period opposition MPs, the only MP in this Chamber who has not approved any single aid package. The fact that the ESM has made commitments in the past and is freed from its responsibilities as a government party by squirming in that way is simply not true by the fact that the ESM does not launch a single euro without separate decisions. It's obvious. After all, this whole EU integration is a chain of scams. At the time when membership was decided, it was said that this does not mean a single currency. When the single currency came, it was said that it does not mean common responsibilities. Now we have an agreement on economic discipline, we have a common foreign and security policy, and for the first time the European Commission has decided that it will also support a defence policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u115	Mr President! Yes, a referendum can now be held in the near future when it has not been organised so far on this issue, so I am in favour of this initiative. But before the referendum, I think that we should make an extremely careful and independent analysis of the effects of the separation and also of the second option of continuing with this federal development, which is the second option. After this honest, transparent impact assessment, it must be communicated very thoroughly to the voters, to the citizens, and then to the referendum. It is then genuinely known what the will of the people is. I note that Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Iceland are not in the euro and that Finland would be a good reference group there too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u116	Mr President! I would like to share the opinion of the Minister for Finance that this is not heading towards a federal state, but unfortunately that report by the five Presidents and, above all, the Commission communication on how to implement those objectives in the report clearly states that all these measures should be seen as steps towards real economic and monetary union in ten years' time, namely progress towards a central economic, financial, fiscal and political union. Of course, it is quite clear that such far-reaching proposals, such as common budgets, finance ministries and finance ministers, call for Treaty changes. In that sense, when we come to this citizens' initiative, then, of course, if such major structural reforms are being carried out in EMU, then it is probably the right place for a referendum. I do not see the possibility of going to a referendum in this situation, but I am sure that if we are
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u117	Mr President! It has been regretted that there was no referendum in Finland on joining the euro, as in Denmark and Sweden, and that Britain has also been excluded from the euro. Well, what separates us from these countries is our security policy position. We are much more east than any of the countries I mentioned outside the euro, and my impression is that the reason why Finland first joined the EU and that with enthusiasm and at the front, the euro was also included and in the way we went, is linked to our security policy objectives. We were determined to show that we are part of the West, and that is why we joined the single currency and are trying to influence all our hearts. This was the choice of identity and security policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u118	I would like to give Mr Salmon a reply. Since then, there has been at least one speaker for all the groups, two for the majors in this debate. That is why, after salmon, I will give the floor to Mr Stubb — he is in a hurry to move on. Then we'll continue the conversation here after him.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u119	Mr President! When I said in that speech that a debate on the benefits and disadvantages of the euro will also be necessary in the future, I meant that we genuinely need to monitor where this euro area is developing. It can be said that the Centre is clearly committed to a government programme which states that Finland, as a member of the Economic and Monetary Union, is committed to promoting the stability of the euro area. Finland’s objective is a rule-based and functional euro area in which each Member State itself has the primary responsibility for its own economic policy. But the government programme also states that Emua should not be developed through the deepening of economic coordination which would lead to greater solidarity, and one might say that, as a result, I am not pleased with the report of these five presidents. We must take care, not just to follow, but to ensure, as Finland, that the euro area is not being developed in the direction of a fiscal union.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u120	And now, Minister Stubb. I noticed that he was just speaking the first time, and he did not have the opening speech, but left the representatives. I apologize for giving you too short a time just now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u121	No problem, Mr President. — There was little history here, I think, in a fairly correct and honest way, for example, Mr Kantola and many others who said that it was interesting at the time on the eve of our accession to the EU in the referendum. Those who were in favour of the EU said that through this we would not go to the euro or to EMU, and then again those who opposed said that we would go now, see what the Maastricht Treaty says. And then, when we had become members, those who were in favour said that, well, look, of course we will go when the Maastricht Treaty says so, and then those who opposed said that, well, but when you said earlier that this should not be done. So this is what you're thinking. I also believe that the euro was actually a security policy choice for us. That was the line that the then Prime Minister, Paavo Lipponen, built, and the idea was that the support and security of a small Member State is strong institutions and also a common currency, and work was being done on it. I dare say that we have at least gained advantage over the Nordic countries that are not participating in the euro in monetary policy tables and also in monetary discussions. If we take a small time trip into the history of the Finnish currency from that year 1860 onwards, the Finnish currency, in one form or another, has often wavered either by major power policy, the gold stock or other exchange rates. And at the end of the game, we are now sitting around tables, albeit through an independent ECB, where the same great powers that have previously waved our currencies are making these decisions. Secondly, the report by the five Presidents: I agree with Mr Essayah and perhaps Mr Salmon that it is visionary. Quite often, as you well know, the Presidents, the President of the European Parliament, the President of the Commission, as if they were shooting it over and then the Member States are holding it back. And I can assure you that the report by the five Presidents will not be as such, let alone perhaps the openings that the Commission has recently made in this regard. I believe that, in fact, the approach to the development of a banking union and the development of a capital market union will be quite pragmatic. In fact, this development took great strides during this crisis in the euro, and I think it is worth admitting that. But the next developments, if they occur, will then take place through contractual changes. Just like this last one, maybe a little bit of speculation: That is what I have been thinking about when we are living in the age of this fourth industrial revolution and the associated digitalization, robotization, artificial intelligence, 3D printing, the industrial Internet and, in particular, blockchain technology, that what in the currencies is the next stage, because now, for the first time in world history, we are creating electronic systems that are safe. Perhaps I will just stay and ask myself: what is the future of the world's currencies? Do we have separate national currencies in 50 years' time, or do we have some sort of system through blockchain technology that, as it were, connects the baskets of currencies we have today? All the same, I think this is a very good and valuable debate, and I am prepared to continue it, especially when we start the debate. The development of the Emu.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u122	Mr President! It is important to hold a debate today on the advantages and disadvantages of the euro and the direction in which the euro should be developed. It was also important to hold a debate when Finland joined the euro area without a referendum. In fact, it was a little uncertain what kind of euro area it would be, whether it would be narrow or wider. It became narrower, so Sweden did not come along, Denmark is not involved, Great Britain is not involved. Then Greece came along. At the time, the centre worked hard on this issue: what does it mean to join the euro, how should it live? I have just referred to the fact that a study was carried out under the leadership of Mauri Pekkarinen, and I quote a couple of points from it in the parliamentary minutes: "If EMU takes place as a limited currency area, while Finland is involved but the other countries that are close to us are excluded, it will be very difficult for us to adapt to economic shocks." Further: "In principle, Finland's problems in the situation could be facilitated by other elements of economic flexibility: wages, prices, raw materials. Especially with regard to the first two, history does not prove flexibility. As confidence increases in economic policy stability, the situation can change." Further, "The country-specificity of economic shocks, major cyclical fluctuations, serious problems to which we have come, asymmetry would create significant adjustment problems for Finland. The problems would be particularly great if the other countries similar to the structure and economic cycle of their economy were excluded from EMU with Finland's participation in EMU. Finland’s economy’s well-managed flexibility potential is not very great. New major fiscal cuts would further deepen public and regional inequalities." And it came to the conclusion that if the euro area were to become a narrow area, it would be advantageous for Finland to opt out at this stage. Well, downtown lost this vote. I remember how, in this debate, Prime Minister Lipponen and also the then President of the SAK, Mr Ihalainen, promised that Finland would then have the instruments to adapt to these problems, that we would then be able to live up to what is required to live in the euro in the global economy. Unfortunately, this has not happened. There are currently different views in Finland and Europe on how to develop the euro area: whether the euro area should move towards centralised governance, in addition to banking and capital markets, to a common fiscal policy, or whether effective market discipline would be sufficient, and how to resolve it. In the various stages of EMU, the structural problems of the European economy in general and the problem of moral hazard in particular. Now that we are talking about the development of the euro area, there are many terms: we are talking about a closer euro area, a deeper euro area, a genuine euro area. When these plans are scratched deeper, you often have to ask yourself whether the euro area Member States, excluding Germany, Finland and some others, in this closer, deeper, real euro area, or whether we mean more solidarity and greater solidarity in the real euro area, more transfers from good to bad. The question comes to mind when you read the Emu plans of five presidents. The question is why, for example, the development of the euro area could not be primarily better compliance with the rules and is there now a risk of moving towards a kind of double and double solidarity and a risk of moral hazard? Mr President! This danger of moral hazard: it is a major lesson from the financial crisis that, if one can transfer responsibility, risk to another, it is easily done in the financial sector and also more widely. In fact, the danger of moral hazard may now be close to the unconventional actions of the European Central Bank. Many Member States think that the ECB will then deal with these problems with monetary policy, and many countries in southern Europe will not reform. At the moment, we see that when, for example, Greece, including Portugal, there is a slight change in the political situation in Spain, mainly because the left comes to power, then we will not be able to take these important reforms forward. Then there will be very big problems, as has been seen in Greece. Unfortunately, there may also be some in Portugal. Mr President! I really support these very fundamental principles: transparency, ownership, better governance, more professional governance indeed in the EU region. I am not in favour of this broad solidarity, but of the euro area, based on market discipline, if and when it is developed. In fact, Sipilä’s government programme is good in this regard. This is where Mr Salmon quoted a little from the Government Programme: Finland, as a member of the Economic and Monetary Union, is committed to promoting the stability of the euro area. Finland’s objective is a rule-based and functional euro area in which each Member State itself is primarily responsible for its own economic policy. Similarly, each Member State is responsible for its own debts. The Government is seeking to restore this no bail-out rule. Emu should not be developed through the deepening of economic coordination which would lead to greater solidarity. In the past, the Ministry of Finance's EMU report addressed the same issue, and one can pick up a phrase from it: "The focus should be abandoned on the continuous deepening of economic policy coordination. Instead, Member States should be encouraged to take responsibility for economic policy decisions." This is a major challenge for the euro area for reforms to balance public finances and improve competitiveness in the Member States to be carried out on a long-term basis. We have good examples: Ireland, the Baltic States, which have achieved strong economic growth through a good, long-term programme. Unfortunately, not all countries are in this situation. In Finland, too, these reforms, which are contained in the Sipilä Government's strategic programme to balance the economy and increase our competitiveness, to increase agility, to improve competence in Finland. Only through long-term work can the Finnish economy rise. It is important that we really continue the debate on the euro area, because there are great forces there to take the euro area towards strong solidarity that can significantly increase moral hazard. This path of moral hazard can be a very damaging one for the euro itself, even a disastrous one, if you go a long way in that direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u123	Mr President! The euro was supposed to be a success story. During the first years of the euro, economic conditions showed high levels. This was due to the very low interest rates of the European Central Bank. The ECB wanted to help Germany, which at that time paid the economic price of its unification and also the technological bubble that broke out at the turn of the millennium. It was thought naively that one size fits everyone and that the euro area should be integrated into a single area where everyone is one happy family. However, the interest rates that benefited the single currency and Central Europe in the periphery of the euro area caused housing bubbles, indebtedness, public waste and too narrow room for manoeuvre in economic policy. Euro countries were marketed risk-free and money was lent with enthusiasm. The euro accelerated the upswing of the economy in the early years of its history, but when it was understood that, because the euro countries themselves cannot print the euro, they are in a longer-term insolvency situation, this made the market nervous and drove several euro countries into a financial impasse. In other words, the euro accelerated the rise in the early stages, but also accelerated the economic downturn as the market became uncertain. The euro hampers the competitiveness of high-price countries, such as Finland. In over-indebtedness countries such as Greece, the euro maintains debt imprisonment. The euro support packages are a bottomless well, because there is no way for the small Greek people to pay their huge debt. Italy and Portugal fall after Greece and the suffering of the ordinary citizen is increasing. It's the common people who pay. True Finns know this and are right. When the euro joined, Finns received a bottomless well from the moss. There are no easy ways out of financial distress. The euro has become a hot potato, which is easier to throw from hand to hand than to grab. Eurocritical Finns warned against future problems. Now the Nobellists and the chief economists come to us one after another. An increasing number of experts see that it was a mistake to join the euro area. There is, at most, disagreement as to whether it makes sense to leave the euro area at the moment. It is a disgrace to democracy that there was no referendum on the euro. Parliament was not even given a bill, but only a Government communication. Now this injustice could be corrected and saved by what is yet to be saved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u124	Mr President! First of all, this speech must correct Mr Mustajärvi's false testimony here that Finland could have left the ESM support package alone. After all, at the beginning of this reign, Finland tried to involve Germany so that it would have come to help Greece with its three, The Greek aid package would not have been granted under the ESM Fund. We were left alone in this project, and that would have meant that, as I recall, by a two-thirds majority, they would have managed to get this through despite Finland's insubordination. That is why Finland did not go against the Greek package alone, because it could not have done anything about it. This information has come to us in a large committee from officials with official responsibilities, and on this basis we, including myself, were making a decision in a large committee when this process started. In that sense, it is pointless to cry over spilled milk because this milk was poured into a mug during the time of Minister of Finance Urplainen, and that is when this fund for the 500 billion ESM support package was put together. Finland's responsibility for this was, as I recall, less than 1.8 per cent, and we are now responsible for participating in this ESM Fund. In that sense, we have not given any more money to Greece, not even the euro. Mr President! To this citizens' initiative. The referendum on euro membership is a good initiative. Why, let's ask. No matter what the content of this can be, it is in the interests of the citizen democracy to ask the people for their opinion on decisions on independence. As has already been mentioned here today, in 1998 there was no vote in the Lipponen government on joining the euro zone, but only a communication. At that time, the opinion of the people was considered to be of little value. We could, above all, increase the right of citizens to express their opinions on all important issues relating to society. Switzerland is a good example of how, in a democratic democracy, important issues can also be asked of the people through direct democracy. In Switzerland, when the then government wanted to become a member of the EU at the end of the 21st century, the people rejected this accession with a vote. Has the country swallowed Switzerland? Is Switzerland out of Europe? Is Switzerland isolated from international trade? We know the answer, however, that this is not the necessary element in modern society, at least for Switzerland, and in that sense, even if we thought about these matters, I would have liked us to increase democracy and democracy by means of a vote. After all, Finland is one of the most educated people in the world, and it is worth asking whether hearing the opinion of the people leads to decisions that are detrimental to the state. According to the Swiss model, this has not happened. It is customary in Switzerland, when there are referendums on direct democracy, to have the 'no' and 'yes' information package at the home of every citizen, and to have a thorough, very thorough examination of matters before voting. In that sense, I personally hope that if we in this Parliament genuinely want to hear the opinion of the people, we will also give them the opportunity to do so. This type of citizens' initiative, which is in Finland, is not even comparable in itself to the Swiss model. Here every citizen's initiative will be put to the vote, even in accordance with this Parliament's decision, but, as we know, we have parties, government programmes and other ties that determine our way of voting. However, here is the good thing that these so-called freedoms of conscience and other exceptions often come in, that Members of Parliament may vote on the citizens' initiative as they feel best. I therefore believe that in our party this is entirely up to each representative to decide for the time being. Of course, as Mr Salmon has pointed out here, the government programme talks about the need to remain in the euro area. Of course it is not directly said there, there is talk that we need to improve the competitiveness of the euro area and the structure of the euro, but there will not be a direct position on how we should deal with this situation when it comes to this kind of citizens' initiative. I don't think anyone thought of this when this formation of government took place. Mr President! Direct democracy commits the people to the functioning of society. What could be a better option for democracy at a time when the enthusiasm for voting and often even the confidence of politicians is falling? What better way to increase people’s interest in joint decision-making than to increase democracy? If the citizens' initiative were the only working element chosen in Finland, this shipment would be followed in thousands of cases in Finland. Unfortunately, many citizens in Finland do not believe in the impact of these citizens' initiatives to the extent that they even bother to follow them. In that sense, I would like to take this initiative further. We should really start to wonder whether we dare and will in future give the people the right to say yes or no to important decisions concerning them, especially those relating to independence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u125	Mr President! Yes, I almost have to ask if I believe my ears now. Am I right to hear that Mr Niikko here is very serious in stating that the Finns have acted in a very straightforward way? The fact is, Mr Niikko and the Finns of Peru is that, contrary to what was said before the elections, no support package for Europe will be drawn up again, and soon thereafter, a new aid package was created last summer, the Soini One. This is just what happened, and it was accepted by the True Finns. Here I have a quote from President Soin from Helsingin Sanomat on 17 January, where he says that no new aid packages are allowed for the euro countries, everything else can be negotiated. So, what happened? That's not what happened. And the fact is — is it not, Mr Niikko? — that now this Soini One, contrary to promises, was born. President! What I'm worried about is what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u126	Mr President! It is true, Mr Viitanen, that the government had to agree to the construction of the third package of support for Greece under the European Stability Mechanism and to the allocation of more than EUR 10 billion. However, it is true to know why: this was due to the ability and willingness of the previous government to make this European stability mechanism and to create responsibilities for the Finns there that this government could not get away with it even if it wanted to.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u129	Mr President! Unfortunately, I have often had to ask in this Chamber about the protection of the voter, the consumer. Mr Niikko, before the elections you did not speak to the voters at the market in Hervanna or here in Myllypuro in Helsinki, so that, in principle, we do not think that we should make aid packages, but we really can't do anything about it, and so we support these new support packages. I should have been honest with you then that this situation could come and not give these statements by President Soin that we can negotiate everything else, but not new aid packages. As I recall, quite spectacular campaigns were also made with this whole hose-off theme, and this is just a fact that must now be acknowledged. I feel, Mr President, that today, in this Chamber, the worst opponent and critic of Secretary of State Timo Soin would be Timo Soini, then leader of the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u130	I will give you one last response to this part of the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u131	Mr President! The people know that the SDP is responsible for our being in the euro. The people know that the SDP is guilty of having a stability mechanism to which the SDP has carried money, and we will not be able to get that money out of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u135	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u136	Mr President! In that previous debate, the finance minister of the previous government was the first to go to Greece when there was a crisis. The scarves directly pressed it there to manage, and money went away, and the responsibilities fell on this government. Now we are making the improvements that should have been made then,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u143	Mr President! Indeed, Finland joined the euro area, as has already been repeated several times in this debate, without a referendum and without a wider public debate when Finland's euro membership was being prepared. At that time, many Members of Parliament, such as Mr Pekkarinen, the current Vice-President, and Mr Ala-Nissila, who spoke here a moment ago, have already highlighted the potential risks associated with Finland's membership of the euro. Now, as has also been said in this debate, many of these risks have been realised by this previous financial crisis at the latest, and we are still trying to deal with their consequences here. In this same breath, however, it must be said that these effects of the single currency on Finland have also been positive. This strong economic growth we had in the early millennium was certainly partly due to membership of the euro area. It has to be said that this integrated currency and the internal market area helped many Finnish export companies to grow, and the euro area itself has also been one of Finland's most important export markets. As a result, I do not agree with the estimates that Finland's membership of the euro area would have been only negative for the national economy. It has to be said that interest rates have remained very stable in the euro period. Many times the time of gold memories and the times when much more than a dozen per cent could have been interest rates on household mortgages, and these are hardly the times anyone needs. Thanks to the single currency membership of the euro area, we have had very stable interest rates. However, Mr President, we have all noticed the problems of the euro and, in part, the reason why this debate is taking place. I think it is only a good thing that we now have such a debate and are now openly discussing the problems and benefits that euro membership has brought to Finland. As has been said, the Finnish economy and the labour market have not yet fully adapted to these conditions in the euro currency. I have a strong feeling of the development that is now being seen — the Jean-Claude Juncker plan, which has already been referred to here, and the five Presidents’ proposal, in which the euro area is increasingly being driven towards bank sleep and closer cooperation — as a difficult development in many respects. The tightening of banking regulation that has already begun since the euro crisis and the supervision of the banking system have had an impact on the development of our economy. However, I welcome the fact that it is absolutely essential that this situation which we had here a few years ago is not repeated because of the strong risk-taking of banks and also because of the money-playing of ordinary people. That is why it is good that we have more intensive supervision and regulation, but it has also had its own impact on the Finnish economy. This regulation is needed, but a good balance needs to be struck so that we do not overcomplicate access to finance for businesses, for example. In recent years, many Finnish SMEs have faced difficulties in accessing finance for investments due to this tightening of banking regulations, although the Finnish banking system has managed well from this crisis. We had things in order, we had our own nest in order, and it has recently been said that one of the strongest banks in the world is a major Finnish bank operator, OP Group. In that sense, Finland's affairs are good in these respects. We can sleep in peace at night, but this tightening banking regulation has certainly had an impact on the Finnish economy. Mr President! As has been said here, the euro must be developed, and the problems of the euro must be recognised. In time, Finland chose its way in the euro currency by decision of the Parliament, and that is the way we have now gone. It has been said that the euro area, the single currency, operates very much on German terms. After all, Germany has benefited a great deal. Finland must live as the Germans live if we are to survive in the euro currency. This is the reality we are now living in. Indeed, Finland must implement the structural reforms that will reform the structures of both our economy and our public finances in such a way that we can manage under these conditions. We must also try to influence the euro area in such a way that this development is as favourable to Finland as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u144	Mr President! The citizens' initiative before us has been very expertly drafted, whoever wrote it. However, I am not in favour of a referendum being held on Finland's membership of the euro at this stage of events. It remains to be seen which way the problems of the single currency will be solved in due course. The single currency for the countries belonging to the euro does not have the opportunity to change the exchange rate. Of course, the euro floats in relation to other currencies, such as the US dollar and yen. In contrast, there is a fixed exchange rate between the 19 countries of the euro area. The countries of the euro area are at a very different pace in their economies, which is why the euro area is not an optimal currency area. Many countries in the euro area would need access to their own currency, which, according to the market, could be either revalued or devalued. The change in the exchange rate is a key pricing factor and a motor for economic exchange. Germany is known to be the most efficient and economicist in the euro area. Easy price comparability due to the single currency works for the benefit of Germany and to the detriment of other euro area countries. In the euro area, the German surplus is matched by deficits in other countries. In the past years, difficult situations were dealt with quite effectively with devaluation rates of up to 35-40%, among other things in the early 1990s. How could Finland now improve its competitiveness by at least the required 10-15%? The path of internal devaluation is a difficult one, but the only way to do so is to no longer have a monetary policy of its own. The competitiveness pact is important, but it may have a modest impact of between 4 and 5 percentage points. A lot of other measures are needed. The current too high relative level of our unit labour costs is to reverse the rise in productivity that is higher than the rise in productivity in 2008-2009. It would be underestimating the competitor countries if we did not take decisive and rapid action to reduce unit labour costs. The domestic market of more than 5 million people does not raise our national economy to growth, no matter how much we recover into debt. The only option is to increase export demand. It's easy to lose the market, but it's hard to take back. The objective is clear: to make our unit labour costs proportionately lower. Another key policy is to reduce public sector expenditure. This aims to increase the productivity of human resources use and to prevent the rise in the overall high tax rate. A great deal of hope can rightly be given to increasing local company-specific agreement. For the time being, this is only allowed between the organised social partners within the framework of collective agreements. It is clear that reducing unit labour costs and reducing public finances as such will not bring economic growth. They are competitive, preparatory measures that will only flourish when demand in the global market grows so that services and goods produced at the cost level of Finland will become available for sale. As a result of the euro crisis, the euro area has continued, in addition to fiscal stimulus, for years, an unprecedented recovery in interest rates, where interest rates have been at least 3-4 percentage points below normal levels. In addition, the European Central Bank has carried out and continues to carry out an increased supply of money of a banknote-based nature. For years now, the monetary policy of the ECB has continued a trend of growth in so-called unconventional monetary policies. Mr President! There is no prospect of a solution to the problems of the euro. Moreover, it is not likely that the euro will be abandoned by common decision because of the large welfare losses it has caused. Therefore, we will continue to push forward from the present point of view. There seems to be a long period of low growth ahead.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u145	Mr President! We must congratulate the author of the citizens' initiative, Paavo Väyry, who, with his presence, respects this debate, for the excellent timing of this citizens' initiative and its arrival here in the Chamber. Now, if ever, is the time to talk about the future of the euro, EMU, but also about the future of the EU as a whole, when we are here at the British referendum. Mr President! When several speakers have made specific reference to the future of the euro and EMU, the guidelines have been drawn up by the main Euro and EMU influencers in the five presidents' reports. This report sets out a very clear plan for the development of EMU at the forefront of federal development, and it has, of course, drawn the right conclusion that the whole of the EU – particularly in this situation, in particular, the United Kingdom – cannot be behind this type of project. Thus, this report clearly wants to invest in EMU as a kind of federal development key project and then, within ten years, it wants its own budget, its own finance minister, tax law and tax harmonisation, its own external representation, permanent solidarity mechanisms to help countries in difficulty and strict control of the Member States' financial management. Power would be transferred from the Member States to the EU's common institutions, and this would, of course, require a revision of the Treaties, so in the first phase, in the next few years, we still need to make maximum progress by stretching the existing Treaties. Although Mr Stubb said earlier here that these are the kind of gentlemen's pleasures, as the Savalainen would say, visions, that is, ideas which are very often heard in the European Parliament in other EU institutions too, I believe that these must be taken seriously in the sense that, nevertheless, the very clear idea is the way in which these visions are to be implemented within a few years. The Commission's communication of last October is then, as it were, what is slowly moving these ideas forward. This communication on these short-term measures states just as I said in the previous debate that all these measures should be seen as steps towards a'real' economic and monetary union in ten years' time, towards a central economic, financial, fiscal and political union. The proposal to this end is also to increase the control of the national economies of the euro countries by tightening up the interpretation of these existing basic regulations and stretching them to the maximum. Perhaps the most important of these proposals, which we in this House are currently considering, is how this common deposit guarantee scheme is being built. I personally see huge risks here, because banks operating in Finland, well-managed, would then pay for the bankruptcy of banks in other Member States and the necessary money would also have to be collected from Finnish customers. The proposal, which has also been before Parliament and to which I was the only one in the large committee who expressed a disagreement, relates to the fact that the crisis management fund was already at this stage wanting to start making these state guarantees if, for any reason, additional funding was needed before this crisis management fund was finally transferred to solidarity. I objected to it because when the crisis management fund was initially set up, it was stated that the intention was precisely that Member States would never have to assume responsibility for these potential bank bankruptcies under any circumstances. And when we know that Europe, particularly in Central Europe, Germany, but also in the countries of southern Europe, currently has a huge amount of additional bank capacity and that the banking sector is also quite inefficient, then there is a large-scale European banking resolution in which too many banks are being cleared out of the market. I am concerned about the size of the responsibilities that these two mechanisms are likely to involve in such a reorganisation of the European banking sector. This is what we experienced internally in Finland at the beginning of the 1990s, but quite the same type, you might say, is what we have in front of us in Europe to clean up the extra central European banking sector. Mr President! The development of the European Union into a federal state is not the solution to the euro crisis, but, on the contrary, I think it will deepen these problems. Increasing solidarity weakens the Member States' own responsibility for their own economy. Instead, we should focus on improving the internal market for goods and services through common rules, which will then also enable the market economy to work for the benefit of consumers. When the market functions in a healthy way, the weak economic management of the Member State will lead to higher interest rates and investment will then be directed towards those Member States where production is efficient and things are done in the best way. One of the main problems in this brief history of the euro has been the fact that the EMU system has guaranteed a similar level of interest for Germany and Greece, and indeed even the market for a short time lived in such an illusion that the interest rates of these countries would be the same. Instead of increasing economic solidarity, it is therefore necessary to strengthen and open up this common market, in which businesses can operate on a level playing field. These prospects are also opened up by the assessment of the needs of the Ministry of Finance's task force for the development of the European Economic and Monetary Union, which, in line with the Commission, sets out the option of a centralised steering EMU and, on the one hand, market discipline EMU — here Mr Ala-Nissilä has already referred to these options. In Emu, centralized guidance is favoured by increasing solidarity in the Union and inevitably leads to different transfers of income between Member States and also to the development of different transfer mechanisms. When I was sitting in the European Parliament's Committee on Employment, it was already showing how it might be possible to develop such a common European system of unemployment insurance, which would then transfer funds from surplus countries to countries of deficit. This would be exactly this kind of so-called automatic stabilizer. Well, it is very easy for us to understand where that money would go: from north to south. In the area of market discipline, these Member States will then be responsible for their own economic policy and its consequences. When the markets operate, weak economic management in the Member States leads to higher interest rates on central government debt and, on the other hand, good financial management decreases interest rates. Market discipline EMU would force Member States to take care of business conditions and safety, well-functioning infrastructure, trained labour and its innovative nature, and then these investments would indeed be directed towards those Member States where production is best organised. That is why I think it is important that, when we discuss this future of the euro, it cannot, in a way, be separated from the future of the whole of the EU and the future of its whole system, and in that sense these discussions should be paralleled. When you mention the word 'Federal State', it is very easy for a politician to get a reputation for trying to intimidate the citizens. But many federal research institutes have found that the current direction of the EU, which, under the guise of crisis action, promotes a federal state and centralises power to the Commission, leads to the loss of EU legitimacy in the eyes of its citizens. It is indeed serious if people feel that, after all, it is exactly the same who sits on national governments, if we are forced to implement an economic policy that looks like the Commission and draws, which will then be reflected, of course, in that side of fiscal policy, but also in the choices of welfare policy. In that sense, when we are discussing EMU, when we are discussing the euro, when we really are discussing democracy, we are talking essentially about the kind of acceptance that citizens give to the EU and the system that we are thus taking forward. I think it's the current situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u146	Mr President! Finland is a small country in the northeastern corner of Europe. This is geographically impossible to change. Not even Germany or the United Kingdom has 80 or 60 million inhabitants large enough to make their voices heard alone or alone in the world. Finland has even less influence without international organisations. That is why I have always believed that Finland should be involved in all democratic international organisations. Being in the EU and in the euro makes it possible for us to wrestle in a larger series. Punch above our weight, as the British say. Finland is the only Nordic country with the euro, and Erkki Liikanen, President of the Bank of Finland, is sitting in the Council of the European Central Bank. In a situation where central banks have become extremely important to the stability of the economic system, only one Nordic citizen is involved where decisions are taken because Finland is involved in the euro area. Similarly, the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, is the only Nordic member of the Eurogroup. Sweden has its crowns, but are they independent? No, they didn't. They do exactly the same things as the ECB, but they do not have representation there. Sweden has high economic growth, but interest rates are negative. Imagine if we could blame the euro for all our economic challenges. How easy it would be. We would just leave the euro and it would all be solved. But there are no easy solutions to difficult challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u147	Mr President! Thank you very much for this very good initiative, Mr Väyrynen. This initiative is also a good one, because it is now good to remember that Finland has never voted on this. Sweden voted and did not come, and it has been very good for Sweden. We could also ask: what would Sweden benefit from joining the euro, what would Iceland benefit from joining the euro, what would Norway or Denmark benefit from joining the euro? We can't figure out why. And when the reasons also stop supporting why Finland should be in the euro, then we will talk about security. I could ask again: how would the security of the other Nordic countries increase if they joined the euro? No, it wouldn't. This argument is untenable. As a Member of Parliament, I do not wish to oppose the idea of asking the people. Now is the time for the Finnish people to tell us what they think about this issue. The results can be seen. Our competitiveness has suffered, and the euro has caused nothing but misery. Greece would never have been granted such debts if they had not been involved in the euro. The results can be seen. Professor Vesa Kanniainen also says that even if it costs EUR 20 billion, the difference from the euro would be worthwhile. Advantages of Euroero Kanniainen mentioned, for example, that in the event of a competitive devaluation of its own currency, Finland would not have to pursue the competitive leap or internal devaluation currently being attempted by the government. Internal devaluation is always much more painful than external devaluation. Finland would not be involved in the new euro commitments, and studies advocate flexible exchange rates. The Kanniainen list here many euro benefits. It is interesting when we discuss the fact that the euro is a success story. I remember when in 2010 this kind of political awakening took place. I was unable to vote on the EU myself, but the euro was not voted on at the time. At the time, I went around tents and talked to various political parties, 2010. There every party, almost every party, said that the euro is a success story and it is fantastic. It was kind of like a fixe idée. It was not to be criticized, not in the press or in politicians. But one party was found, the True Finns. Timo Soini dared to bring up these problems of monetary union, and if we had already left the euro, we would have saved a lot of money because we have now gone to make financial promises and committed ourselves to these stability mechanisms in the euro area. In my view, it is no longer a question of whether we are going to resign from the euro; it is a question of whether we are going to resign. I don't see any chance that we're going into deeper integration. The euro has made the debts of the euro countries common. I also think it would be fair for the other parties to explain the price they are willing to pay for staying in this euro. This euro, the single currency, was a mistake and should be corrected. I would also like to ask what these are the enormous benefits. Highly intimidated by interest rates, very much intimidated by what would result, but there are no good arguments for it either, if Iceland, with 300,000 inhabitants, is doing well in its own currency. My own monetary policy is independence. Yes, Finland must also be allowed to make its own monetary policy. If we have ever done a bad monetary policy, as we have done in the 1990s — even revalidated in the 1990s — it was the wrong monetary policy — then we can fix it ourselves. We in the euro have no influence at all, we are such a small country. So now I am in favour of a referendum on this and we are going to take sensible action to increase Finland's competitiveness.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u148	Mr President! In my opinion, the question of this citizens' initiative is, as a rule, whether we want to develop the current system or whether we want to jump towards the unknown. That is how I personally understand the question when we are talking about whether Finland should leave the euro. This is a strong economic issue. This is also a strong political issue. These same issues were long-running in the 1990s when Finland decided to join the euro area. In fact, in this debate today, the decision-makers who made this decision have often been blamed and it has been said that these problems were not foreseen. In fact, when these documents were examined, the potential problems with the euro were well known. They were recognised at the time of accession and it was stated that we should also learn to live in a common currency. In other words, the question is whether we have acted in this common currency in the way we previously agreed and how we based our decision-making when we joined the euro area. At that time, the social partners also took decisions on what should be done in a possible situation where cyclical fluctuations take place and we cannot externally change the value of money. It was then that these so-called Emu buffers were created, which is what we have been talking about here today, so that, at better times, more money was raised so that it could be used in bad times. Ladies and gentlemen, it is such a bad time, and that is why the Social Democratic Party, in its own option, has also proposed that these EMU buffers should now be introduced, thereby also reducing labour costs and, on the other hand, increasing the amount of money left in the hands of the workers, so that the demand for the domestic market would certainly increase and, above all, export companies would benefit from this. That would be the way in which the euro should work now, using the instruments that we have created. The euro, as has been well proven here, has been both beneficial and harmful, but perhaps more of a concern to me as to whether or not the problems in Finland are now only the cause of the euro. Would Nokia still be better off if we had the mark? Would Nokia’s product be more competitive on the world market if we had our own currency? I don't think so. Would the demand for printing paper in the world be better if we had our own currency? I don't think so. In other words, what currency we have does not explain the problem that we have, for example, with regard to industrial restructuring and the resulting problems. Also, this devaluation, which many people here have also supported, that if we had our own currency, we could do this devaluation, too, is no magic device. Whether we do it externally or internally is the same thing for the consumer in the wallet: either with less pay in the hand or with a little less money in the store. In any case, there are problems with this devaluation, and it is not so much an unambiguous solution today to improve our economic competitiveness, as the greater problem of our competitiveness is actually more related to the products of our companies, to the knowledge that we export to the world market and to the problems of demand that we see now in the global economy. Then there are also a number of practical problems with this possible withdrawal of the euro, such as the fact that we have many euro-denominated contracts, both the Finnish State, private companies and individual citizens. If we were to adopt our own currency, it would be up to us to decide how to deal with these agreements, which were created in euro. This would be heaven for lawyers, hell for the rest of us, because there is a strong conflict of interest. It has been suggested here that it is only a matter of agreement and that it is settled as has been done before, but it is difficult to say that each party to the agreement would have exactly the same interest in resolving this issue in some way for our benefit. I doubt it. Perhaps, above all, for these reasons, I myself am going to assume that the euro is really not perfect, that it must be developed. We need to develop Emu, and we need to make monetary union work better. That is why the first question is always to stick to what has been agreed. It has to do with solidarity. We must follow the no bail-out principle. We cannot accept the fact that we are always going in the direction of putting our debts on common shoulders and so on. Even when we look at the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, the economy and employment should be more at the heart of the policy pursued by the Central Bank. The key question is that we must also learn to live in the common currency.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u149	Mr President! It seems that the euro and natural conditions are not flexible. We're in a straitjacket. We have now talked about whether these risks have been assessed when Finland has joined EMU, and I agree with Mr Räsänen that there is. According to research data and research into this history, risks have been assessed if Finland does not have an independent monetary and monetary policy in the future. If we have a disturbance that undermines competitiveness, then we really cannot react with devaluation. That policy may not have been adopted in the sense of preparedness, and now that the risks have been realised, it is like a tiny pair of pants down, but the Emu buffers have not been enough in practice. Sweden in our neighbourhood, for example, can make competitive devaluations. Just as Mr Huhtasaari asked, what interest would these countries, which are Nordic countries but outside the euro area, have in joining the euro currency at the moment? Well, once the euro zone's revitalising monetary policy has been an investment in unproductive walls, the banks' balance sheets have become sloppy and the economy has contributed to supporting banks that have been virtually inviolable. At this stage, it is worth remembering how Iceland survived its own economic crisis. It took decisive action, among other things, to allow these inviolable banks to collapse, to retain their own currency, and has then submitted an application for membership to the EU to be suspended. And these banks, the buckle buckets, I think there's still enough in Europe. This means that the EU is not attractive to a country that responsibly wants to manage its economy. We would have an ideal European Union if all countries were like Finland. Then I would also like to ask about the values of the Union, because we are always talking about a community of values. Of course, I want to belong to a community of values as a European, and trust is a value. So what is the community doing, which seems to be referring down to trust? Does it build or does it degrade itself in this authority? In my opinion, the answer cannot be a federal state. So no more of this community of values if this is the result. The crisis in the euro is a frozen crisis and needs to be discussed in depth. So thank you to the author of the citizens' initiative. I wonder if any economist, an economic sage at the moment, is able to say what will happen to the euro area at the end of the day? This is another reason why Commissioner Katainen's comparison with nationalist terrorists is tasteless. We need to have a conversation. The EU has been a peace project, and I do not understand the Commissioner's comment here either. The euro is the currency of the Union and is in the same state of affairs, and I would therefore like to say a few words about this regulation of the EU. I believe that the EU is good or hard-working in small matters, but it cannot solve big things, at least not very quickly. For example, the latest news on forestry policy is completely absurd. The fact is, of course, that many of the problems we have in Finland, for which we blame the European Union, are at home, but what is the difference? If it seems that nothing can be done and yet we are in this same alliance, then it will undermine faith in the European Union and at the same time in the euro, because these are values and questions, although of course today we are crying over the milk that has fallen a long time ago. But the worry is real. There is huge unemployment in the EU. Well, then the next question. For example, is the problem of corruption, which is more public in certain countries than in the Nordic countries, spreading in Europe? So what is the state of good governance in Europe? Work ethic, for example, is also part of the competitiveness of the economy. And then, at the same time, we are crumbling our own economy in financing countries where governance is not at the same level as in the Nordic countries. I understand that there is still a need for additional funding, it is great in Europe. The lack of bank stress tests was a serious failure when Greece was included in the euro. Now, if banks are in trouble, they will not be able to finance investment, the euro area economy will continue to dwindle and thus employment will not grow. The single currency is not compatible with the economic policies and production factors of different countries, which means that there is quite a bludgeon going on here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u152	Mr President! Paavo Väyrynen, the author of the citizens' initiative, said to Yle in January: "The vote will take years. We have no time to waste when the economy is in as bad a state as it is, and the euro area is rapidly developing into a debt union and a federal state." And the main purpose, as he said, is, of course, to separate Finland from the euro area. This main point is made by the fact that the decision-making system of the European Union as a whole is being substantially changed and will further reduce Finland's economic and national independence. Unfortunately, this process is already very advanced and costs more than 20 million unemployed people in Europe. The European Union did not become a paradise for workers, as the Ay leaders once asserted when they joined. Then a few words about what has been raised here during the debate, firstly, that the European Union will increase security and is precisely a security policy solution. I think Mr Hakkarainen rightly said that we have a border of 1,300 kilometres, and Finland is the only Soviet neighbour to the war who was not occupied. If we look at the European Union and, by the way, what kind of countries, and what kind of politicians or military people advise us, there will be Danes, Norwegians and Estonians. In recent wars over Estonia went from east to west, the occupation of Norway took a few weeks and the occupation of Denmark no less than 24 hours, so that an awful lot of such advisors should not be listened to. There is an aid clause in the Treaty of Lisbon, but it is worth remembering that there is an exception, particularly from the will of Austria but also of Finland, that a unique national status can be taken into account. The solution to the refugee crisis showed the importance of bilateral cooperation and the negotiation process between Finland and Russia. If we were still negotiating the refugee crisis through the EU, the problem would have blown up a long time ago, and if we were talking about a common EU policy, I am also quite sure that at a time when EU sanctions will sooner or later begin to be lifted, then the Germans and the French have been doing business in Russia for a long time and will then welcome the Finns on the trail. Mr President! The situation in Greece, once it has been pushed over Syriza. The fact is that in Greece the socialists, the local social democrats and the local coalitions ruled for decades. After the military junta, the families of Padandreou and Karamanlis took turns putting the country in a very chaotic situation. Centuries of corruption then led to the sad development it led to. Greece was included even if these Emu criteria were not met. Then the gates of the debt heaven were opened to the Greeks, and later also to Finland the gates of the debt hell. And this integration of the EU is exactly the same way as NATO integration. When a new step is taken, the next step is always banned. If we are consistent, the European Union cannot remain in any intermediate state, it will either break down or it will become a federal state, and in view of the chaotic situation in the European Union, this motto of the EU, 'unified in diversity', is quite a paradox. Mr President! Yes, there are more politicians and there are fractions within the parties that have already said well in the early 1990s where this development will lead, for example, Esko Seppänen, Paavo Väyrynen, Timo Soini — it must be said then — and also Mr Pekkarinen’s report had facts that unfortunately came true. If you still sums up what is going on, remember what Jean Monnet once said. A direct quote from his texts: 'The peoples of Europe should be directed towards a superstate so that their peoples do not understand what is at stake. This can be achieved through the next steps, each one of which is dressed as an economic goal, but which inevitably and irrevocably lead to a federal state." This trend is absolutely clear and undisputed, and I am more appreciative of those politicians who honestly say that their goal is a federal state, tell their own political line and course of action, but I do not understand or appreciate them at all, who know quietly what this is going to lead to, but then deny all these facts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u153	Mr President! This citizens' initiative is aimed at organising a referendum. When the Constitution was reformed, they were hardly aware of the speed with which the world is changing when we think about obtaining signatures for a citizens' initiative, its difficulty or its ease. Media activities have the strongest impact on the attractiveness of the citizens' initiative. In fact, it seems that media publicity is crucial to getting more signatures. I have therefore wondered whether the amount of 50 000 signatures required for the initiative was far too low for the referendum during the current technology and social media. For the initiative of local councillors in support of local democracy, at least 4% of residents aged 15 or over are required to hold an advisory referendum. Should this same relationship also be found in national citizens' initiatives, at least in the initiative to organise an advisory referendum, instead of about 1.2% of those entitled to vote, three or four times the number of signatures? Mr President! It has been very interesting for the new representative to follow up on the good speeches on the euro. The problems of monetary union must be determined to find and seek a solution. Unfortunately, by means of a referendum giving advice, they will not be resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u154	Mr President! A few additions to what I said in my previous speech. I explained that when Finland took a decision and Parliament took a decision on joining the Monetary Union, these risks were also raised. However, the general tone of the debate when joining the euro was a reflection on what would happen to us if we had a recession and there was no recession in the large EU countries. Then we had just experienced a very bad recession in the early '90s. I do not remember anyone in that debate raising the possibility that some other countries are in trouble and we are wondering whether we are ready to help. More than that, the discussion in advance complained that if we were ever in trouble, we would hardly be helped. I agree with Mr Huhtasaari on one point: Yes, when monetary union was bellowed in a certain way before this decision was taken, it was a fixe idée for some, I also got the impression. Nevertheless, there was also a critical debate. You can check it by reading the minutes of their parliamentary debates. However, what is quite different is that we will not be able to return to the pre-union situation by deciding to separate from the euro. Once you've jumped into a moving boat that's out there, you can't get to the pier in a way that jumps over the boatboard. I said in my speech just now that I cannot imagine that the euro difference could take place without even greater economic upheaval than we have already experienced in recent years, and I really believe that. Let us remember now that the global financial crisis was triggered by the bankruptcy of a smaller bank, Lehman Brothers, in the United States. Its effects were felt throughout the world, and we still suffer from its aftermath. Greek GDP is one and a half per cent of EU GDP. The crisis in Greece has been reflected in Europe as a whole, including us. One point that did not fit in with my first speech is that I believe that the measures needed to strengthen the EU in order for monetary union to function properly in the future also include the need for new means of mobilising resources for the EU's own budget. I find it very unwise for the Finnish Government and, in fact, for almost all the governments of Finland so far and most other governments of the EU countries to create new ways of collecting money directly into the EU budget. This has been the case, for example, with the financial transaction tax and the fuel tax on air transport. I think these should be considered seriously. There have been eloquent speeches here about how great it would be if we were not members of the EU. Even though there are many problems in EU decision-making, just as there are many problems in Finland – I do not agree with all the decisions made by Finland, nor do I agree with almost all the decisions taken by the EU – I would still not resign from Finland and would not propose the separation of my own home town or country from Finland. I would like to remind you of this fundamental issue, namely the safeguarding of peace and stability. Yes, I am quite convinced that, for example, when Russia joined the Crimea itself and began war in Eastern Ukraine, we Finns would have felt much more uncertain if we were not members of the EU. Mr President, my last point is: In this earlier Question Time, we discussed tax evasion. The Government has today published the working group that the Prime Minister promised, the parliamentary working group. I am very sorry and disappointed that its mandate is limited to the fight against illegality, the fight against the shadow economy and financial crime. I understand the Prime Minister's promise that it will also cover what is known as aggressive tax evasion, i.e. that it will also be the task of blocking both Finland's own actions and through the EU the loopholes through which this so-called aggressive tax planning takes place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u155	Mr President! There have been very few referendums in Finland. The situation in our country is very different from that in Switzerland, where residents can express their views through direct democracy on a wide range of issues. Finland was included in the euro area during the Lipponen government without a new referendum, although the EU referendum of the 1990s did not discuss the single currency sufficiently widely. Unfortunately, the euro did not become a desirable and advertised success story. When Finland introduced the euro, no problems such as the current ones, or at least the current ones, were foreseen. It was, of course, known that Finland’s sovereignty would be significantly reduced by the abolition of the markka. In his introductory speech today, Mr Sarkkinen said that the economic discipline criteria have been the cause of the problems in the euro area, but in fact the problems have been caused by the failure to comply with the agreed rules. Greece, among other things, was originally included in the euro area on the basis of distorted statistics and abuses were overlooked in the Euro-Hungary. Unfortunately, the violation of the rules has continued ever since. Although many internal problems in Finland's economy are largely due to the cost structure of our economy and structural reforms are necessary, this debate has also highlighted low interest rates as an important benefit of the euro area. However, in Sweden, for example, which is not part of the euro area, the level of interest rates is low, so the justification for the interest rate benefits brought by the euro is lame in this respect. Nor do I consider the euro to be the solution to Finland's security policy issues, as Mr Kantola said earlier today. The questions of our security need to be resolved by other means. Unfortunately, in recent years, the EU has been moving at an accelerated pace towards a federal state, perhaps in some respects under duress, but in many respects for ideological reasons. The referendum on a possible EU difference in Britain in the summer should indicate the broad guidelines for EU development. Although Britain is not part of the euro area, there has been strong criticism of the functioning of the EU and the euro area across Europe. The criticism concerns not only monetary and economic policy but also, quite rightly, the management of the migration crisis. It has been seen in general that EU-wide problem-solving mechanisms do not always work very well across Europe. Mr President! There is reason to have a debate on this subject in Finland too, and this citizens' initiative has served as a credit for raising the debate, at least here in Parliament. Incidentally, this debate has been surprisingly good-spirited, even though we clearly have differences of opinion. It must also be remembered that the citizens' initiative has put forward a referendum. At least it does not directly require Finland to separate from the euro, let alone from the EU. Mr President! We decision-makers need to listen genuinely and carefully to the opinion of the people, although, of course, there is still a need for more objective information about the consequences of the euro differential. This is also referred to in the citizens' initiative. As a trained nation and well informed about the consequences, Finns can also make a sensible view of this issue, which must be respected by decision-makers. Mr President! The referendum put forward in the citizens' initiative would bring the whole people's views to the attention of Parliament, and on this basis I am in favour of holding a referendum.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u156	Mr President! There would be significant economic and other risks to Euroero and, if I have understood correctly, no parliamentary party, including the Finns of Finland, has presented the Euroero. From this point of view, it would be problematic to hold a referendum, and I do not support that in this situation. However, it is clear that the economic crisis that has shaken Europe has highlighted major problems in the structure of the euro area's vulnerability and the monetary and economic union, and it is equally clear that the structures of the euro area need to be developed. Monetary and Economic Union EMU must be developed in such a way as to focus on strengthening economic growth, employment, social justice and financial stability in Europe. Social Democrats believe that Finland must be active in the development of the Monetary and Economic Union. Addressing structural weaknesses, better regulation of the banking sector and consistency in fiscal policy coordination are essential in this work. Mr President! However, just as Mr Viitanen said in his speech, the current problems of the Finnish economy cannot be brought down as a single cause of euro membership or the euro area. At the same time as we are discussing the correction of losses in the euro area, we must also discuss the soundness of Finland's economic policy. Is it reasonable, for example, for the government's cutting-edge economic policy, particularly in education and research, while at the same time reforming the economic structure of our country, strengthening knowledge and improving our competitiveness? The answer is no. And is it reasonable to cut off the fight against the shadow economy, for example, when the shadow economy, tax evasion and financial crime are major problems in Finland and Europe and cause major losses to public finances? The answer to this, too, is that it is not. On the contrary, common measures against aggressive tax planning, tax evasion and tax havens must be speeded up and strengthened both at home and in Europe. Mr President! We therefore need reforms in economic policy, and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u157	Mr President! I remember when a referendum was launched in 1995 on accession to the EU. It was democracy because the people voted. The yes votes won sparsely. It has come to mind that the positive decision was blocked and lobbed very much by the fact that the cost of the food bag would be lower, also international and not lagging behind. Well, the cost of the food bag hasn't been much lower. If we look at the situation of our producers, farmers, at the moment, it is almost catastrophic. In other words, at the time, something was not well negotiated for the producers in this EU drug, because this is the situation at the moment. This citizens' initiative proposes a referendum on Finland's membership of the euro area. The initiative has collected some 53,000 names and needs to be taken with full seriousness because of its support. As can be seen from the citizens' initiative, Finland was integrated into the euro area in 1998 by a parliamentary decision. There was no referendum, and Parliament was not even given a bill, but a Government communication. As a result of the problems in the euro area, many parties and individuals have expressed their dissatisfaction with the way Finland once joined the euro. And this question could be put to the then government and the subsequent governments: why was there no referendum then? In the Maastricht Treaty, Finland and Sweden announced their decision to join the euro area separately. However, it was only in Sweden that a referendum was held, which resulted in Sweden being excluded from economic and monetary union. When comparing the Finnish and Swedish economies, it has often come to the conclusion that joining the euro was a mistake. There is no doubt that the federal development that exists in the euro area is also worrying at the moment. The national decision-making power is being diluted step by step under the auspices of the EU, and this is really worrying. However, the euro has been partially satisfied here in Finland in the 21st century. Since the start of Finland’s economic difficulties, the criticism of the euro has grown and the demands for the euro area to become detached have intensified. However, our country's economy is plagued by a number of problems other than the euro. The solution to structural problems, the reduction of unemployment and the improvement of the economy by means of structural reforms are currently a government priority, not speculation by opting out of the euro alone. As Minister Soini has said, so much has happened worldwide in a few years that the same world, the same situation we used to be, we can't go back — there is no chance, everything has changed. The essence of the citizens' initiative is therefore that 53,000 citizens would like a referendum on being in the euro area. This referendum would be an advisory one. So the question is: why did the referendum not take place when the time was right? — But what old ones to remember, because now we are living today and here. This citizens' initiative on popular voting in general is something that the Finns in Finland support, because the people's voice must be heard and referendums should not be held, as Mr Savio has mentioned here, very often, even if it is necessary. However, I would like to thank the author of the citizens' initiative, Paavo Väyry, for this initiative. It is important that this debate also takes place on the importance of the referendum. And give my regards to the gallery, Mrs Väyrynen: I am already sitting the other way in the same office as you have had when you were a Member of Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u158	Madam President! There has been talk here of a common European defence, and it has really shown its claws in the big cities of Europe — terrorist attacks, constant rioting, they will soon be here in Finland, thanks to Europe itself. This is a point, and part of it already is, like a country occupied through a Trojan horse, in the same way as Eastern Europe, now only by Muslims. So much for defense. We Finns are the only party that has consistently been European and Eurocritical since the beginning. Accession to the euro was a mistake for Finland, which has been costly. I believe that this is the view of the majority of the people and that they have the right to be heard in the form of a referendum. Many Finns who initially believed the propaganda that inspired the euro and the EU’s beauty have found that it was a bubble and a blow. For Finland and Finns, the euro has been a disadvantage. We've missed the disadvantage when things were going well in the house. But now that the times have been weak for many years, the disadvantages of the euro have become apparent both in us and elsewhere. After all, we can read about the so-called success story of the euro in the week and year after year. Spain's budget deficit increased to 5.1% last year, well above the 4.3% set by the European Union's finance ministers. In addition to Spain, the 3% deficit in the euro area is exceeded by France, Portugal, Slovenia, Greece and Cyprus. In the event of a breach of the deficit target, the European Commission may impose a fine of 0.2% of GDP on Spain. A week ago, the German Minister for Finance, Wolfgang Schäuble, expressed doubts as to whether Greece would be able to get its economy on track by means of an aid scheme. According to the economic messages, he said that he was not sure whether the third Greek aid scheme would operate. He said that it is difficult for Greece to revive its economy when, as a member of the euro area, it cannot devalue the currency. The probability of a euro difference in Greece is around 60%, estimated by the research company EIU in its report. According to the report, it is questionable whether the Greek Government will be able to take the measures required to implement the third aid scheme. Mr President! Quite a few streetmen would have guessed that years ago, even without reports of financial wisdom. Such escalating lands as Greece are a bottomless well. No matter how many thousand million euros can be spent there and things will not get any different, at least not the affairs of Finns. After all, we only have the role of a paying man and a spectator in this game of Eurolords. The euro is simply a weak currency in terms of competitiveness. It has no appreciation for the US dollar or the Japanese yen. On the other hand, it does not have the agility of the small currency of a small country to react to varying economic winds. You only have to look to Estonia, Sweden or Norway to understand it. Madam President! For us Finns, the euro has been just as successful as the Schengen Agreement, for example. At one time, freedom of movement was acclaimed, even though the life of any ordinary tramp was probably not greatly affected by the passport inspection. We now see that free movement also means the free movement of criminals. The determination of the European Union and the ability to make decisions effective were weighed last year when asylum tourism began to flow in hundreds of thousands. Decisiveness was found to be light. Hundreds of meetings have been held on the subject of the crisis. What are the results? They're kind of thin. The external borders of the EU are leaking like a sieve. However, it has been comforting to note that some EU countries, such as Hungary, are capable of independent decision-making. Madam President! To this end, I repeat what I mentioned at the beginning: Finns have the right to be heard on a matter that has never been asked of the people. At that time, in the spring of 98, the citizens were unable to influence even through the representatives of the people, because euro membership did not become a draft law, but through a Government communication we were forced into the euro. I hope that the referendum will take place. I warmly support this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u159	Madam President! There has been a good and broad debate here on the euro area and on this citizens' initiative as a whole. It is true that the risks of the euro have now materialised in recent years, both in Finland and in the euro area as a whole, and the problems must be identified. However, there have also been positive aspects of the euro. It has been a good time for growth, as has been the case here in many speeches, in the early 2000s. Low interest rates for us Finns have undeniably been a positive thing. But what has been lacking in this euro, in my opinion, is this monitoring and regulation. These would be important things to put right today, but unfortunately this is the case, as Mr Kiviranta said in his own speech, that there is currently no solution to the problems of the euro in sight. The big question is whether we have learned to live in a common euro currency, and that is something that we decision-makers should ask ourselves every now and then. Of course, you can ask the same question to Finnish working life, social partners and all the Finnish people: do we have the skills to live in this single currency in the euro? There has also been a good debate here. The citizens' initiative can probably be broadened a little when it comes to foreign policy, security issues. Good speeches have been made here, gone to the Greek crisis too, but I believe that the citizens' initiative itself was based on this question of membership of the euro area. If the referendum takes place, I promise to be involved in the vote and to hold a further debate on it. I hope that we do not have this evening's debate on what we have here. This is what's going on in the Parliament House.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u160	Madam President! Briefly enough, at the time of the banking crisis in Finland, the banks were put in place by force. As a result, Finland now has one of the best in the world, for example. A similar banking crisis is currently taking place in central Europe in Germany, for example, and there, as Mr Essayah mentioned there, many banks are going through very badly. Well, now that we need funding here in northern Europe, from those with bad banks, this European Commission looks at the model and tightens the funding. Here in northern Europe, we now urgently need investment in other areas. It's like they take a picture and they move it here and they influence it. How much is it worth for us to invest and other things?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u161	Mr President! There has certainly been a long, multigenerational and fruitful debate here in the Chamber on the euro area. When I just ran there, I'm a little short of breath, but I'm sure I can say it anyway. The most important thing is that Finland has options. We have the option of going as a driftwood to the federal government. We have another alternative: we are talking about countries such as Germany, which are trying to ensure that this federal state does not become as some countries advocate it. The third option, then, is this euro differential, which the referendum is intended to promote in practice. It is important to understand that if the economic development of the euro area persists for a long time and Finland's economy does not begin to recover, serious consideration must be given to leaving the euro area, as staying in the euro area would mean participation in a more intense and solidarity-based federal development and the loss of our economic independence. We would lose economic independence in the same way that I myself have lost my vote running here so that I could say this important thing, namely that there are three choices that Finland can take. It is up to us whether we dare to give the people the opportunity to influence what is Finland's economic and sovereignty policy in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u162	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, TaVM 10/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-28-ps-45.u163	Madam President! The proposal proposes to amend the law on security of supply. It is a question of security of supply and the storage of imported fuels. Oil security storage has been handled in Finland in the past in such a way that the availability and accessibility requirements of the Directive have also been met. The aim of this government proposal is to clarify national legislation so that the points of the Directive raised by the Commission in its reasoned opinion are more clearly transposed into national law. I think that this proposal is a positive one and a good one. In Finland, the security stocks of oil are the oil stocks of state emergency reserves owned by the Security of Supply Agency and the obligation stocks of oil importers. In many European countries, the minimum level of three months is met, but in Finland oil is in stock for about five months. Finland therefore has a level of oil stocks well above international obligations at the moment, so we believe that other European countries can even take the lead in effective storage and work. According to Article 3 of the Act on security of supply “State reserves are held for the livelihoods of the population, for the activities of the economy and for the defence of the country, as well as for the raw materials and products necessary for Finland’s international contract obligations on security of supply”, such as crude oil, natural gas, cereals, pharmaceuticals and industrial raw materials. I believe that there is a need for a security of supply debate on all these issues. The proposal makes the regulation of the usability of stocks of crude oil and petroleum products more precise in the Directive on the obligation of Member States to maintain stocks of crude oil and petroleum products. The proposal does not lead to any change in the practices followed. Finland is dependent on imported energy. Our self-sufficiency is only about 35%. Almost all crude oil, coal and natural gas are imported to Finland from Russia. In 2014, they accounted for more than 60 per cent. It is clear that, at the same time as we take care of the adequacy and usability of our security stocks according to our obligations, we must strive to improve our self-sufficiency. Our energy availability is good at the moment, but we must always be prepared for possible changes in the operating environment. Finland’s northern location, cold climate and dependence on maritime transport as well as long transport distances are the special features that affect the objectives of security of supply and our range of means. Finland has highly developed technology and strengths that help us maintain our national security of supply. However, our energy imports could be halved if our diverse and abundant natural resources were exploited. The use of peat and wood chips in heat production, wood- and straw-based fuels and the use of biogas should be understood. These are good examples on the way closer to our energy self-sufficiency. Madam President! In particular, electricity generation should improve self-sufficiency and reduce dependence on Russian imported electricity. The state should also support preparedness projects by municipalities and companies, e.g. through support for emergency equipment through the Emergency Supply Agency. In addition, the abovementioned centre should acquire and store mobile aggregates across the country. If necessary, these could be transferred to critical targets in large and long-term electricity disruptions. The threshold for the use of aggregates in the armed forces for so-called civilian use should also be lowered. The power may be out for 15 minutes or several days due to the storm. Farms are generally well prepared for this on their own, as it is a matter of necessity and continued livelihood. However, there is still much room for improvement in other preparations. The Rescue Act mentions an obligation to self-precaution, which affects businesses, agriculture and households alike. The primary means of preparedness is to improve the security of electricity supply by electricity companies, and this is also subject to the law already in force. I also think it would be appropriate to report on the needs of the municipalities and on the preparedness for the disruption of large-scale electricity distribution and to allocate grants to the purchase of the above-mentioned reserve equipment. In the case of households, security of electricity supply and thus security are indirectly improved by the above measures. Self-preservation for power outages, such as the purchase of an aggregate, could also be encouraged by lower insurance premiums. Electricity companies, the state and municipalities must set an example by also doing their part in improving the preparedness for storms, even with the help of the Emergency Supply Agency.
