ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u1	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order of number 2. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 2/2016 vp, it will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the Treaty and the Protocol and then on the basis of a legislative proposal at second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 15 March 2016. In the debate, Mr Harakka, supported by Mr Viitanen, has tabled a proposal for a statement, which has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u2	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u3	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 15 March 2016. In the debate, Pia Viitanen, supported by Timo Haraka, has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u4	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 2/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u5	Madam President! The Metsähallitus Act has been prepared for a long time, several years. It has been prepared by a number of different governments, and now we are in a situation where we finally have a report. The aim and driving force of the reform of the law has always been the same. It is that, under all circumstances, we will be able to maintain the current Metsähallitus in its operating methods, as an actor and guardian of the multidisciplinary Finnish nature. This has been the key objective. Now that the various regulations have changed, it has become more and more up-to-date for us to make these changes so that this big objective can be achieved, and I understand that this objective is common to all of us. Therefore, both the Government's proposal and the clear majority opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry have been such that the change has to be made and there is no desire to risk that Metsähallitus will no longer be able to operate in its current approach in the future. That's why this change. This change has also led to a great deal of civil debate. That's good. It is always, of course, welcome, and it must be greeted with joy. However, the nuance in the civil debate, in which there has unfortunately been a great deal of misinformation on the move, has not tended to take this debate in the right direction or on the right track, and this is very regrettable. But I hope that now, after reading this report and during this debate, these issues will be justified and placed in the context of what they really are and truly are. Madam Speaker! The current form of Metsähallitus as the manager of the state’s land and water areas has achieved its objectives as a conservationist, conservation site manager, the development of recreational opportunities for citizens, the maintenance of wood supply in the forest industry, the producer of raw materials in the bioeconomy, the source of government revenue, the provider of employment opportunities and the co-ordination of other land use. So this long, big list is all those missions, [Second Vice-President PaulaRisikko : Sorry, Mr Leppä. — Let us calm down and listen to the presentation of the report, and then we start the debate. Thank you.]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u8	Let us have a debate about an hour or so to begin with, because I think these are the questions for the Minister here. I would now ask those Members who wish to take part in this, to take the floor by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u9	Madam President! Thank you to the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry for presenting the Committee's report on a comprehensive basis. This Metsähallitus law has indeed been in parliament for more than eight years, so all the parties represented in this Chamber have been able to influence it. But now, during this parliamentary debate, this legislative work was given some interesting features, because we all received quite a lot of e-mails on this issue. In particular, in this context, I am now looking to the representatives of the Green League and to your active work on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u13	Mr President! Metsähallitus manages Finland's forests, waters, our national property, and Metsähallitus' nature services are our most important nature conservation authority in this country. This law has been in preparation for a long time. This was to focus mainly on the way in which logging is carried out in our economic forests, that is, the form in which its activities are organised. It also presents challenges, but for some reason this government also decided to weaken the role of nature conservation and the role of the conservation of natural values in Finland. It has still not become clear why a third balance sheet is set up completely outside the power and control of Parliament so that the Government can, by its own decision, transfer nature reserves and other naturally valuable waters and forests to this third balance sheet away from the management of nature experts, their preservation, their expertise, the management of forestry experts, Metsähallitus Group Management.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u14	Mr President! This Metsähallitus law has been prepared for an exceptionally long time, like the Isaac Church, but still the final stages of drafting the law were in quite a hurry, which led to the fact that the law as such is, unfortunately, quite a disappointment. We Social Democrats are wondering, first and foremost, three things. First of all, this integration of forestry activities. EU competition law does not require this. Why did you drive the company without properly explaining what alternatives might have been available to this activity? Secondly, we question this new third balance sheet. Why create such a strange grey zone, which does leave it unclear whether, for example, hiking in the future will be provided with impossible price tags for the ordinary citizen? And thirdly, the management system. We agreed that the management system should be clarified, but this was a remarkable step when it seemed that the Ministry of the Environment was being driven out of Metsähallitus completely. Yes, we also want a clear management system, but it is clear to us that the role of the Ministry of the Environment in Metsähallitus must also be clear and that it makes no sense to drive a single host in Metsähallitus.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u15	Madam President! I would like the Minister to answer the question as to whether we are selling any land to anyone. I myself have understood that even a hectare does not change the owner and Finnish waters and forests. Not one national park, representative Niinistö, moves away from the Ministry of the Environment or from the Nature Services unit. I think it is quite reasonable that common waters, for example, will continue to be used to allow the fisherman to obtain a fishing permit. There is no fear that it will be totally protected, and there is no fear that it will be particularly commercial, but that it will continue exactly the way it was, so I think it is very good that there is a balance sheet like this that is not required to make a profit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u16	Mr President! It is no wonder that this preparatory work has taken so long as you have spent nine years searching for that non-existent EU obligation and still have not been found. In connection with this, the question to both Minister Tiilikainen and Mrs Leppa: last season, when you and the rest of the opposition and social democrats were about to overthrow the Metsähallitus Act, did you come as a surprise to you with the Procurement Directive and the Directive on public concessions when they received the content already in 2014? How did it come to you just now? How is that possible? And then to the people of Peru: when you, as a whole group, as one man, as one woman, have run behind a non-existent EU force, why should we now teach you that EU criticism?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u17	Madam President! I too am a little surprised by the public debate that has taken place around this law, and by the threats and images that accompany it, what is bad. I would like to ask the Minister, when I myself have read this law quite carefully and I have discussed it in committee, whether you could guide me on where the government's proposal or the additions proposed by the committee relate to the weakening of some natural value or to the weakening of some hiking activity or other essential activities. Personally, I would like to thank the government and the members of the committee for the fact that we rarely see a law that places such strong emphasis on regional cooperation and even calls for cooperation between the various ministries so that we are able to take these practical steps in a smooth way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u18	Madam President! I am referring here to this new third balance sheet, which is justified as a compromise solution in the area between Metsähallitus' business side and the nature conservation side. This logic is a little disappointing if the intention was to place in the new third balance sheet, the so-called grey area, those land and water areas of the state which do not have a clear objective of return and which are not mainly used for forestry purposes but are not strictly protected, because it is still the case that the third balance sheet does not include, for example, state hiking areas, where the main activity may not be forestry, but is recreational and natural tourism. They stay on the business side. Furthermore, even the recreational forests of Upper Lapland, which are transferred directly to the business sector, are no longer located there. I haven't quite figured it out yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u19	Madam President! As has been heard in this debate, there are a lot of views in the air and various threats have been created, and that is why I would like to continue to ask the Minister about issues that concern the citizens. 1) Will Finnish nature continue to be a common national property of Finns after the amendment of the law? 2) After the amendment of the law, can Metsähallitus sell land and water rights to third parties, such as Chinese investors, without parliamentary permission? 3) Will there be changes to everyman’s rights, hunting, fishing or the management of hiking grounds after the amendment of the law? ( 4) Will the amount of felling increase after the change of the law?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u20	Madam President! Indeed, as far as the drafting of this law is concerned, this blindness of the alternative, which has been the case with this Government, is astonishing. It has not been seen that there are indeed alternatives to this incorporation. And when the Minister says in his written reply that there is no other option, I can mention that one way to change Metsähallitus's bankruptcy and the other laws of tax treatment is through regulations — it could be provided for, for example, by amending the bankruptcy law. Another possibility would be to turn Metsähallitus into a Yle-type special company, which would have been entirely possible. The third option would be to create an independent public-law body on the forestry side of Metsähallitus. Where on earth are the watches that did not awaken these new and other possibilities? That's what I want to ask Minister Tiilikainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u21	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to express my thanks both to the Minister and to the committees that have contributed to this government's proposal. It is true that this is a very many years of effort, and now we have legislation that will enable us to prepare for the challenges of the future that will certainly come, no matter what the EU is demanding at the moment. In the future, however, there will certainly be changes through the Procurement Directive. I think Metsähallitus is an excellent example of how it has been able to combine the use of economic forests in a sustainable way while at the same time ensuring that the natural values of the forests — and of the waters and others — that are owned are preserved. This is an excellent example of this, and that is why I am very confused that this type of debate is taking place here and that we are trying to create threats that do not exist. And I must say quite frankly that my appreciation for certain organisations has suffered a great deal because of the fact that we should stick to the truth when things are lobbying here. That would be a pretty good requirement. So this is an excellent example of how nature values,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u22	Mr President! We Finns have a proverb, "Slowly Good Comes". Unfortunately, that is not the case with this law. In the expert committee, when we heard a large number of people and experts, the majority of them wanted to continue with the current model. There was no need to change this. As has been shown here, the EU is not demanding change, neither legislation nor directives, and no other EU country is planning legislation similar to that we have here in Finland. And when we also received the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which is very critical of the management system, I am going to ask the Minister: what is the wonder that this legislation should be amended? We Social Democrats want the current legislation, which works well, Metsähallitus to work well, to continue to work with the current legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u23	Mr President! That is precisely how this law, which is currently in force, has worked well, as the chairman of the committee said in his own speech. And that is precisely the reason why I am surprised that such a wide-ranging change has taken place. It has already become clear here that EU legislation does not provide for this requirement to be incorporated. It has been said here that this third balance sheet would help to better coordinate economic forests and environmental values. At the moment they have been very well coordinated in this form as it is now. Instead, the fear is that this third balance sheet will, as it were, provide a gateway to making greater financial use of these areas as a recreational and protected area and as a hiking area. So the question remains: why do we want this change now?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u24	Mr President! Many colleagues have already pointed out that neither Parliament nor the committees have received a proper response as to why such a new third balance sheet should be set up. Representative Anttila and many others assured us that nature values will be preserved, taken care of as before. Why, then, do we need to transfer more than 2 million hectares of public waters and out of the management and control of Metsähallitus nature services to control the business side of Metsähallitus? When the chairman of the committee, Mr Leppä, assured us that the situation of the Sami people would not deteriorate, we know that there has been a lot of conflict between the business sector of Metsähallitus and reindeer husbandry over the years. When we do this, as it were, the host exchange of the reindeer species in Upper Lapland and at the same time the government parties refuse to lay down the articles that the previous government prepared and which are included in the Law of Water and the Mining Act, which prohibits the deterioration of the conditions of the Sami people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u25	Mr President! Mrs Wallin said here that many in committee said that Metsähallitus had done well. That is also our view, and that is why we are doing this so that it can continue to work well and very far in the same way as it has done so that the average Finnish natural person, the hunter, the fisherman and also the forester do not even notice the difference that is being made. That's what we're doing right now. This is where Mr Mustajärvi said that we are under the pressure of the EU. There is no need for the EU to be in this situation, but all those options would only be much worse if we did not make this decision, which is what it is at the moment. This could have been done in line with the Swedish model, when Metsähallitus' forestry land would also have been transferred to the ownership of this company, or Canada's model, when Metsähallitus would have abandoned the current form of self-employed forestry. But they didn't want to do this. They wanted to find it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u26	Mr President! Rarely is there a bill that is criticised so much from so many different perspectives. The problem of company ownership is that the use of important national wealth is slipping away from democracy and Metsähallitus' organization is fragmented. The third balance sheet and the status of nature conservation are also a cause for concern, and the former Minister for the Environment, Sirpa Pietikäinen of the Coalition Party, has also expressed concern about this bill. The forestry activities of Metsähallitus are not required to be incorporated. In fact, Metsähallitus does not compete on the market, as it is responsible for planning land use and forestry measures on state land. The forest management work has already been put out for competition. Destia decision does not apply to Metsähallitus. EU regulation applies to all Member States, but, surprisingly, other EU countries are not making similar changes or setting up their forest governments. Thus, once again, Finland is more papal than the Pope himself and justifies its own political choices by means of an artificial EU requirement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u27	Mr President! As has been said here, the law has been in preparation for nine years and now we are dealing with a compromise between the many roles of Metsähallitus and their priorities. And as has been emphasised here, this will ensure the continued operation of Metsähallitus. I agree with Mrs Hautala about the difficulty of the committee reading this issue and the specific features involved. I do not understand how someone can imagine pursuing their cause by inciting unsuspecting natural friends with their music ramba to block cell phones and e-mails with their message ramba. Despite this pressure, however, the committee completed its report in good time. So I ask the Minister once again: What are the most essential changes in this law? Is it really the case that countries and waters are now being sold and multinationals are being allowed free to riot in our national property? Is this about destroying natural values and whether there will be nothing left for Parliament in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u28	Madam President! As has been shown here by many good previous speeches, there is no coercion to the reorganisation of Metsähallitus, which has now been presented on the side of EU legislation. It is exciting how these arguments change along the way. When we went into this process, it was a competitive neutrality that forced us to do this. When it turned out that this was not the case, for example from the Commissioner responsible for competition, Mr Vestager, it was said that it was a procurement directive. Well, it is already said at the mouth of the assembly that there is no need for this to be done. I agree with Sirpa Pietikäinen, the experienced European Parliamentarian, the former Minister for the Environment, that this is not a good way forward. But since the government wants to do so, I would like to raise the issue of the Sami people in my speech. The draft law does not contain the so-called articles on the prohibition of the weakening of the Sámi culture. This is incomprehensible in view of the fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also recommended that they be added. In December, Finland was already criticised by the UN Human Rights Office for undermining the rights of the Sami people. Is this how we treat the only indigenous people in Europe, the ban on weakening, without undermining the status of other residents in the region? So that we can move forward in the future
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u29	Madam President! Many of these concerns have been raised here, and it is quite true that we do not have an urgent need for this incorporation. But it's about whether we're willing to take risks. The left is apparently willing to take the risk that, under procurement law, we will no longer be able to give this company exclusive rights to trade in timber and harvesting and to hold it in national hands. You are prepared to allow Chinese companies to come here to repair and trade wood in Finnish forests, As far as this third balance sheet is concerned, we understand that there are different areas: some have protected uses, others have commercial uses. The third balance sheet now recognises the fact that we have areas for which neither claim is directly targeted. They still exist, then.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u30	Madam President! I have to comment on that speech by Mr Kärnä to the point that forestry activities are now being incorporated into a form that has not been not been Notified in the EU. So it is a question mark whether this chosen model, incorporation, the requirements of EU competition neutrality are being implemented. This is the risk you are now taking in this case. This has hidden behind the back of the EU, and when it turned out to be unsustainable, this procurement directive was invented. April will come into force. We need to get the law first. A very artificial rush was created for the concession to be competitive. This concession has nothing to do with state forest land. A third balance sheet is now being created, i.e. hiking areas are being formed for money, this gate is being opened. When I spoke to one of your representatives from the government parties, he said that they don’t matter if they start charging at the national park border. So this is the position of the Coalition Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u32	Madam President! In connection with this law, a very unfortunate feature has arisen which resembles such trolling, i.e. anti-law opponents have masqueraded this kind of trolling, in which completely wrong arguments have led citizens astray. I now ask the Minister what kind of lock is behind the ownership of this established Metsätalous Oy to ensure that forestry activities continue to be held by the state and under Metsähallitus.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u33	Madam President! Just as many speakers have said, there has been a huge amount of misinformation and fear-sitting in traffic. I really feel bad that worried citizens have received messages asking if Finland's forests, land and water are going to be sold to foreigners. Yes, we must have some responsibility as political decision-makers for that communication, although we here are certainly doing that policy, but we must stick to the truth in these matters. In the Committee on Economic Affairs we were concerned about the way in which the management system between Metsähallitus and Metsätalous Oy will now be formed in practice. I would have liked to ask the Minister whether there may now be some confusion that we have some court sittings in which Metsähallitus versus Metsähallitus is perhaps discussing these matters. In these respects, perhaps there was still such a question mark in the air, that this management system was done well enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u34	Madam President! According to the Finnish Constitution, the Sámi have a self-government of their native language and culture in the Sámi region according to the law. More than 90 per cent of the land and water area is controlled by Metsähallitus. During the last parliamentary term, the Government submitted a proposal to amend the Metsähallitus Act. It contained provisions that would have improved the opportunities for the Sami people to participate in planning and planning for the management and use of land and water, and a ban on undermining the Sámi culture. Now this bill does not contain these provisions, although it is in line with the recommendation of international law. I ask the Minister: why?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u35	Mr President! The good decision-making capacity of the Sipilä government is demonstrated by: It was a very good thing that both the Government and the ministries and the committee carried out an in-depth assessment of the options that exist if this incorporation is not done. I trust that an appropriate assessment has been made there. And the false images created by the Green Left opposition that are now on the path of selling Finnish national assets, waters and forests to foreign investors have proved to be a complete bluff: they remain 100% in the state balance sheet. The same is true of the fact that natural values are being trampled on. — Well, for the Greens, of course, this is the lifeline of your existence and of your life, that is what you are saying, even if this is not the case. I must say that good practice, given how difficult and difficult it is to deal with, and especially with a company that is particularly important for Northern and Eastern Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u36	Mr President! Now, let's go over carefully what's the problem here. Different ways can be used to consider the way in which this issue of bankruptcy is dealt with there on the forestry business side. There are different solutions, and we know that this method of incorporation has now been chosen. But when this is accompanied by a change in the position of nature services and a weakening of the steering powers of the Ministry of the Environment, I am truly grateful that the media brought to the public the clear objective that some people, on the basis of this information, were pursuing in practice the same thing as the environmental authorities, which was already attempted in the case of the Ministry of the Environment. Now it has been tried again, but, fortunately, the public debate has now made this clear that it was not entirely done. But even the government's proposal is a weakening. No one has been able to say why our authority, which is capable of promoting nature tourism and connecting it with nature conservation, fostering national parks and valuable areas, is taking regions under the management of business, which is not able to engage in dialogue with the Sami people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u37	Madam President! This is a very important issue for the citizens, and there has been a great deal of e-mail. Forests are important, hiking areas are important, the wasteland network has not yet come up in this debate. I've been asked if hiking routes remain open to all. I've answered, "Stay." Are the longwoods going to be paid for? I have replied: they will not be paid. I've been asked if every man's rights are being interfered with. I have answered: no interference. Now I ask the Minister: is the information I give true? And I'm going to ask you about this desert house network. We've got a 500-hour, fine, deserted house network, mostly free of charge. Will they remain owned by Finland and Metsähallitus, or will they be sold to the Chinese?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u38	Madam President! The public debate has been amazed here, and government parties have admired the decision-making capacity of the Sipilä Government. It is worth noting that last October this law was not sought voluntarily for statements. In December, an attempt was made to get a referral to the law at night without the Minister's presence. And on the last day now in March, according to the Helsingin Sanomat, the government parties brought a completely new, even worse proposal to the table. It is no wonder that there is a public debate on this basis, and this is not the good decision-making capacity, is it? The question is: Why do we have to move such huge land and water from Nature Services to the economy if nothing really changes, as is now the case here many times, from many mouths insured? Why was there no separate law for Metsätalous Oy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u39	Mr President! Those of us here longer know that this Metsähallitus law has been driven like a snake into a gun, especially by Metsähallitus. And if you ask why this solution has been reached here, my answer is that the fear of total protection referred to here in some speeches has driven this coalition of governments into this solution and that no defender of natural values has been found in the government. I want to ask you three questions now: According to some estimates, mankind is threatened by climate change and the death of species. In what way, Minister, as Minister for the Environment, do you see that this change will improve the way in which these matters are handled? What kind of experience have you had in previous incorporations in support of this change? And what voice, when there is only one vote, will Metsähallitus speak in the future? Is it a financial sound or a natural sound?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u40	Mr President! This preparation of Metsähallitus law has been a very heavy and difficult process. In particular, it has been experienced in Savukoski, where Metsähallitus manages 95 per cent of the municipality's surface area, 20 per cent of the municipality's income, so it is very important to us. Thank you now for bringing this piece of legislation to a conclusion, at last, that we will find peace in that area, including for these workers, because this has been a very difficult and difficult process for Metsähallitus employees, when they have not known how this will work. They've been challenged, and there's been all this. Now we have come to this situation, where the most important thing is that there will be hardly any change in the current situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u43	Madam President! In a presentation of the committee's report, Mr Leppä said that this report was in line with the constitutional framework. It is a good thing that this is the case, because this was the case at the last stage and a solution was reached which is the case. However, I would like to raise this one Sami matter here, on which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stated that all previous practices, including the Constitution and the positions of international organisations, would support the participation of the Sami people in this proposal. In that sense, at least this beauty flaw is coming to an end. Ninety per cent of the Saami area is under Metsähallitus. In the last parliamentary term, these were the Sámi passages, according to which the Sámi's right of residence and, in the same way, their ability to influence these matters should be better taken into account, and it is unfortunate that they were not now included in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u44	Madam President! There has been quite a lot of confusion here about what the EU has in the end required of us in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u50	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the committee for your hard work. Yes, I have often regretted that this incorrect information is still being used in this Chamber, for example, on the balance sheet of the national parks. As far as the Sami question is concerned, we also know that the Ministry of Justice is in the process of launching a project for further preparation of this. And yes, this has involved a great deal of disinformation, escalating and intimidation, painting threats. I am also surprised that in the preparation of this law the opposition has also used a Twitter account in the middle of a committee meeting. I cannot understand that, in the middle of a committee meeting, there will then be an attempt to influence it. I do not think this is a good way of working either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u51	Mr President! Although I personally support this bill, I do not recognize in any way the fear of total protection that Mrs Huovinen raised here. I understand this change in the law in such a way that it wants to keep Finnish state-owned land and water assets owned by Finns in Finnish use and, in practice, there will be no change in the use of these areas. This third balance sheet. The idea that it would undermine the status of nature conservation — I understand, however, that there is no return target in the areas to be transferred to it, and if there is a demand for return in these areas, then this transfer to the income claim can only be made by a parliamentary decision. In other words, it is very difficult for me to see what the risk would be from the point of view of nature conservation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u52	Mr President! Less than 2 per cent of forests in Southern Finland have been protected. The sixth extinction wave is raging, and the government has cut large sums of resources for nature conservation. Nature is now in a state of emergency, and this bill also continues to undermine nature conservation: the status of nature services will be weakened, the role of the Ministry of the Environment will be weakened,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u55	Mr President! The bill is so controversial that the representatives of the government parties brought significant amendments to the committee in the last few metres. It already says something about this process. This has been justified by the deadline for the procurement directive which expires in April. However, the urgency is artificial because even if Metsähallitus' forestry business is incorporated, there is no need for a concession under the Procurement Directive. In other parts of Europe, the Procurement Directive is not considered to have anything to do with state forestry. Even if a company is set up, the right of use of a forestry company to state countries can be regulated by law and regulations instead of a concession. This is entirely possible, and that is what the experts have said. But I would like a clear answer from the Minister on the question of why the Sámi clause is not included in the draft law, and a clear answer to why this controversial third balance sheet is now actually being set up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u56	At this stage, I will give four replies, then the Minister — do you wish to reply?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u57	Madam President! This is a matter of concern. Bad decisions have been made in this Chamber before, and in a hurry a vassette has been made. We know of Finland's free property policy and the mild phenomena and even threats it brings with it. In this Chamber it was released with sincere faith and from citizens of all countries. You are now doing the same thing without a look in the eye in this company of Metsähallitus: you do not look far enough and nature conservation. With climate change, water is worth more than gold in the future. I am concerned with countless Finns about how our water ownership, for example, will end up in the long term. Are you not terrified that economic interests and performance goals can guide land and water management in the future, as companies visit? So that's where the worry comes from.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u58	Mr President! Indeed, during this parliamentary career of less than a year, this is probably a law in which perhaps the most fears have been aroused or awakened by as little change as is happening. I am still challenging the opposition to tell us one specific situation in which the incorporation of companies affects what is actually happening there in the field. I haven't gotten that kind of ear yet. Then on this balance sheet arrangement: contrary to what we can see from the debate, in fact, 55% of all Metsähallitus hectares are going into other equity capital that does not have a return requirement, and therefore only a clear minority of basic capital. That these proportions look exactly the opposite of what most people do when they listen here. As far as state hiking areas are concerned, it is true that one might ask that they are here, that they are invested in basic capital, that they should be in other own capital, but the outdoors law itself requires that they be managed in such a way that their condition is not impaired in the sense of nature and the value of camping.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u59	Mr President! When this law, you might say, has followed the public debate, it must be said that everyone certainly has the right to his or her own opinions but not to his or her own facts. I understand the concerns of the Finns. Finns are quite broad-minded about nature people, and I can share that concern. Unfortunately, however, now the concern and the information that has been disseminated that is now being passed on to or incorporated into Finnish nature or land under the requirement of profit is not at all true if this law has been read. Then it has also been mentioned here in the parliamentary debate that this issue of the Sámi issue is completely missing. I would also like to say that, in exactly the same way as the current law states in Article 6(2) of this bill that Metsähallitus must coordinate in the Sámi regions in such a way as to safeguard the conditions for the exercise of Sámi culture. This is just as much as it is today, and the expert consultation has shown that Metsähallitus,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u60	Madam President! Yes, it must be said that if there is now false information on the move, there is a lot of misunderstanding in the understanding of what has been heard. It is strange, however, that the representatives of the government party here claim that we have said something in this debate and have spread false information. We have these facts based on expert opinions, for example, to the extent that there is no such obligation to enter into a partnership. Experts Mäenpää and Siikavirta have, for example, pointed out that this is not the case. One of them has, at least, argued as a doctor on this subject, so that I do have a bit of a right to plead that my opinion here is equally factual. I've never said anything here about selling anything to the Chinese. Now stop repeating the same record that we are here to provoke and sell our land to the Chinese. We want to protect that property from Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u61	While the minister is preparing, then Mr Lindtman, and then the Minister, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u62	Madam President! It has been known along the way that the coalition has been pushing for this incorporation all along — even when the SDP stopped this in the last government. But the fact that downtown people are celebrating the decision-making power of the government here, that this is now being incorporated, does raise questions. Yes, these concerns have been expressed along the way. Let me take one example. "The forest government should remain a whole and the better national assets would be if the There was no representative Johanna Ojala-Niemelä, Susanna Huovinen, Tytti Tuppurainen or even Myllykoski behind this quote. This was Mr Tiilikainen, chairman of the parliamentary group in the centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u63	And then Minister Tiilikainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u64	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to thank the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and the Economy for this work. As this debate has already revealed, we have an extremely large entity of interest to Finns, and the great interest in how our state's forest property is managed and what services and values it produces unites citizens. It has been important to me, whether I was in the opposition or in the government, to bring unity to Metsähallitus. In this recent debate, Mr Anttila said very well what is the idea of sustainable development: it is being able to ensure ecological values, economic values and social values at the same time. It is difficult to find a better and wider example of this sustainable activity than Metsähallitus as a unitary entity, as it has done so far, and as it will do after this bill, now that it has ensured its ability to continue as a unitary actor. It's been asked why this change and where does it come from? I think that all the parties in the Chamber have been in the government during the course of this preparation during a number of different governments. It dates back to the fact that when the Act on Business Administrations was reformed, every single business establishment operating in Finland, its separate legislation, has since been amended. Metsähallitus is the last of these companies that have been operating under the old and already repealed Act on Business Administrations. So here comes the basic need to change, and then the question arises as to how to change. Those changes must, of course, comply with the EU legislation, but at the same time they must preserve the unity of Metsähallitus, which is based on Finnish values. This is exactly the kind of solution that no one is asking of us, and that is why the committee has stated in its report and also the Ministry's proposal that there are other options and opportunities here, but that these other options and possibilities would not ensure this unity of Metsähallitus. If you look at a neighbouring country in Sweden, there is no single forest government. There is a limited liability company, which also owns the state countries where it operates, and there is then a Nature Conservation Agency separately. So we're split in two. Would that have been a better solution? Certainly not, at least not in my opinion, and apparently not in the opinion of the government parties. That is why we cannot now take Sweden as a model for this. The operational activities of Metsähallitus — the fact that Metsähallitus not only manages state land but also manages forests, chops wood in accordance with the natural resource plan and supplies them to factories — and the benefits it brings us to the state treasury much better than if Metsähallitus were only a wood seller without this operational activity. It is precisely this operational activity that can be ensured in the hands of the state as a whole by the establishment of this 100% owned subsidiary within Metsähallitus, but, once again, not even one hectare of Finnish national property will be transferred to it. It is granted the right to engage in forestry in those parts of the State which have this claim for income, but this company has no business in the other areas of the balance sheet. Only in those countries which are subject to a return claim, the company operates and cannot transfer this right to anyone else. I would like to thank the committee for the amendment that you wanted to ensure that this company's company law complies with these social obligations that Parliament as a whole demands from the Metsähallitus and its individual parts. Climate change or loss of biodiversity are not affected by this bill. And at least this government does not intend to make such balance-sheet transfers that Finns should be concerned about anything. I do not know, then, whether there would be such government bases that would make such worrying moves, but this government will not do so. I can assure you, Congressman Salolainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u68	Madam President! I would also like to ask the Minister that, as if in your own speech, you argued that the company was not in control of the third balance sheet item. Yeah, it does. And then what has been most disturbing here, perhaps in the public debate at all, is that nothing is going to change as it were, and Mrs Leppä said that most of all nothing is going to change. But what the writer of the 130,000 addresses wants to hear from you is that it is not the so-called dark side of the spoken bioeconomy, where the sustainability of increased fellings is only considered in terms of timber production and not from the point of view of the preservation of forest biodiversity or the recreational use of forests.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u69	Madam President! The new Metsähallitus law is well-founded and unnecessarily feared. On a large part, criticism has been based on false information, and I would like to thank the representative for that. Essayah for a good speech, because the opposition also has a responsibility to disseminate the right information. Minister Tiilikainen has very much opened up the issue of company ownership, and I would like to say in this respect that I do not want to be taking the risk of having to compete in forestry. But apparently there are those here who would like to take risks. State-owned countries, forests, lakes and sea areas — even trees remain state-owned. As the representative mentioned, there is little change in the law at the practical level. And I would like to emphasise these social obligations, which are therefore also in place for the company, in the committee's appendix. In other words, biodiversity, recreational use, employment promotion and the requirements of Sámi culture and reindeer husbandry must be taken care of as the holder of the state's land and water areas. These are there in the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u70	Madam President! I myself received dozens and dozens of e-mails, all of which in the second last paragraph were the Sami affair. It reported that these had been systematically advised to send to the MPs. When I asked some where the law was, the answer was that I do not know, but I was thus instructed to ask. I think this is the kind of ultimatum propaganda we should really get rid of. And with regard to these Sámi issues, the Sámi region has municipal councils representing the Sámi districts, the village assembly and municipalities, and their task is then to implement equality and equality. As far as this limited liability company is concerned, I believe that state property should be managed as its own, and the EU does not force it to, but it has implied that the structure is such that it very easily contains prohibited state aid. When there is a concession directive, the five articles of which appear to be fulfilled, and from the point of view of risk management, it is the most sensible thing to have a limited liability company,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u71	Madam President! It has to be said that I personally consider it almost as a dissemination of false information if someone considers that this bill would somehow strengthen the protection of the Sámi culture. I do not think this is the case, not even on the grounds that new negotiating councils are now being set up in the municipalities of the Sámi region. It is the case that the Sámi, which is a minority nation in Finland, are a minority in these councils, perhaps apart from the municipality of Utsjoki, where the Sámi are the majority population. We Finns, as representatives of the majority of the population, make our voices heard in every conclave and representative body. We have as many as a few hundred MPs. The Sami people are also a minority in the municipalities of the Sámi home region.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u72	Mr President! It is really great that this issue is finally moving forward after nine years of long, long-term volatility. And even though it is said and known that this company model is not a coercive model to which we should go, as Mrs Myllykoski has pointed out in her speech, there are many of these models, and we all know that a new solution needs to be sought, because these risks exist, and these have been identified by the previous government, and these legislative proposals have therefore been taken forward without success. The most important thing is that these everyman's rights remain, all free hunting rights remain, these types of rights for citizens. And then, what is particularly important is that this activity has made a significant return to the municipalities of northern and eastern Finland, and it seems that we are — Minister, I can ask — in the preparation of this matter that it could be better to obtain this return.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u73	Mr President! The citizens are very concerned about this law. The fact that nearly 130,000 people have signed the petition against the Metsähallitus Act also tells us about it. I believe that this concern is genuine and must also be taken seriously in this Chamber. This is not about a few people, it is about 130,000 Finns. I, too, am concerned about where this Metsähallitus law can eventually lead. The Minister has just assured me that these worst things should not be carried out, at least during this period of government, but I am at least concerned about where this law can lead in the end, about the changes that will take place in the state, in forests and in water. Are we going to come to that situation one day, perhaps even very soon, that we are actually discussing whether these areas are State owned or perhaps by someone?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u74	Mr President! It is interesting when we discussed yesterday how slow the mail is going. It is true, and it is very true in that northern Finland, among other things in Savukoski. But I wonder what Mrs Maijala's position is when she compares it with that of the municipality of Savukoski. This position of the municipality is dated 9.2. and it has just taken over a month for this message not to reach Mrs Maijala. Second thing. I have here another Lappish statement in which the subheadings are: "Integration of forestry in vain— The EU does not require the incorporation of a single voice and a clear management system in the Finnish Forest Government, thirdly: "Reconciliation solutions must be secured at local level" and fourthly "The Act for New Preparation". And here, as the first signatory, is also Markus Salmon, a representative of the Parliament. Is it not quite shocking that this kind of intimidation propaganda is spread up to so many channels and that people who are in their own municipality of residence or in their own regional organization will change their positions when they come to Helsinki?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u75	Mr President! I understand that, for ideological reasons, some people are opposed to this corporateisation of timber sales.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u78	Mr President! Mr Halmemenpää was already responsible to Mr Eestilä for these negotiations in the Sámi region, but I would like to point out here that, when this third balance sheet is established, the host of the reindeer husbandry areas in Upper Lapland, which are the very core areas of the Sámi traditional industries, will be changed from the nature services of Metsähallitus to the business sector. I find this very worrying from the point of view of the rights of the Sámi, while the current government and the government parties do not agree with the laws of the Sámi safeguard clauses that the previous government prepared for it. Mr Halmemenpää pointed out that if we were to be consistent with this third balance sheet, we would then have to transfer to it from the countries currently subject to the obligation to make a profit also to hiking sites, which are mainly already in Natura. And if we were to be consistent with the arguments in this third balance sheet,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u79	Madam President! Of course, there has been a lot of knowledge and fear, and perhaps there has been a little desire to take it forward to make an unusually large mix of noise. Even the previous governments have had the opportunity to make this the way the opposition now hopes. It has not been done. Of course, this is a terrible question for the Northern MP. When there is talk of government in Lapland, it is usually the first one to talk about Metsähallitus, which means that we are at a very important point. But then you have to wonder, of course, that those options are good for consideration and I am interested in discussing them. Is it the conclusion of the trade in wood to be made such a subsidiary, or how modern could such a separate establishment be? When the minister is here, I would like to ask what this tax revenue is in the municipalities, because that is a cause for concern in the north, and because it becomes public calculations from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u80	At this stage, I will give three replies, after which the Minister will reply because he has a tight schedule. These three persons are representatives of Niinistö, Tuppurainen and Hakanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u81	Mr President! Indeed, it is worth remembering that in today's times our forests are usually places of rest for Finns, places of rest for hiking, wilderness, fishing and recreational use bring health benefits, it brings benefits to tourism, tourism and restaurant industries and entrepreneurs, and Nature Services is the one who does this. As the number of visitors to national parks has been rising sharply, more than one million visitors per year, and incomes are increasing for the regional economy, especially in Eastern and Northern Finland, so I think that this proposal gives such an image... And, in part, I would also like to thank the Minister for rejecting the weakenings which, according to the public opinion, were still wanted by the government parties during the parliamentary process to make the nature services even worse. But when nature services know how to combine this variety of recreational use of forests, hiking and nature conservation, I still do not understand why the third balance sheet is needed. It just sounds like it's used to create this kind of old-fashioned raw material storage, from which can then be taken land, gravel extraction, even some fellings. And it's not up to the parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u82	I added Mr Ojala-Niemelä, Mr Sarkkinen, and then Mr Leppä, chairman of the committee, finally and then Minister. - And now, Mr Tuppurainen, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have not yet answered the question of this third balance sheet and its importance. This matter was also rightly pointed out by Mr Pertti Salolainen of the Coalition Party, whose experience would have had to have been heard in the government parties. This raises the question that what is required for such a third balance sheet between the claim for income and the protection balance sheet? Will it open up the possibility that, for example in public waters, money will be made available — this is what the Finnish leisure fishermen have been asking about. How does this affect general fishing rights? These are the questions that NGOs and we in the opposition are asking here. Why is it confusing, why change this balance sheet in this way? We also wonder why hiking grounds must be under a profit claim. Would it not be most natural for national parks to be specifically included in the balance sheet of public administration, i.e. nature conservation? That is what we are proposing, and that is where we hope you will end up. And as far as the civil debate is concerned, it is a delicate debate here. It is only good that the citizens are interested. I thank you for all the messages.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u85	Madam President! This debate has been taking place for an hour here and good answers have also been heard about the way in which this law has been prepared. I also think that this is the result of a long-term process of being in this situation. When I myself have been on the road since last summer, all I have to say is that this identification of the facts is inconceivable. When you ask sharp questions here and you are inquisitive and the Minister answers, it is still felt that this is probably not the case. In other words, there has always been such a spirit in this preparation that there has been a desire to create uncertainty through the people in this drafting of the law, and there has also been a sense of intent that we in the committee have also received hundreds of e-mails. It only tells you that you cross-check your e-mail and even if your email address has been changed, the title includes the name of your previous representative. After all, it is absolutely ridiculous that such work is being done and tried.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u86	Madam President! It must be observed from this hall that for once there is a discussion where the Finns of Finland are completely silent. Do you think the jacket would have turned around on this one too? But thank you for this speech — I have a few questions for the Minister. First of all, why did you object to the fact that the forestry company's staff, as a representative of the landowner, had the right to conclude agreements and plans to coordinate multi-use? I come myself from Muonio, where these forest disputes have been plentiful. We have extractive industries, tourism, forestry, reindeer husbandry, and it would have been vital that this right of coordination should have come to the staff of this company. Why did you resist it? The second question relates to the fact that we were told by the regional manager Riipi that the fact that Rovaniemi became a registered office had only a symbolic meaning.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u89	Mr President! Unfortunately, the Minister did not respond properly to the question of this third balance sheet item. So I repeat: why is the third balance sheet item created? I would like a clear answer to this. The Minister also said that this government does not make balance-sheet transfers that undermine natural values, but it is now opening the door to a subsequent government doing so, and I believe that this is a genuine concern. And in the civil debate, these vain and over-exploited fears and threats have been on the move, I have tried to correct them myself, but the concern about companying and the preservation of nature and recreation areas is quite genuine. Share-based activities reduce transparency and take one step further away from direct democracy. The separation of the forest business from the rest of the group also disrupts Metsähallitus, and the fear is that the financial interests dominate other interests in the company's operations. However, thank you to the committee for adding an article to the law that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u90	And then the chairman of the committee, Leppä. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u91	Madam Speaker! First of all, it must be pointed out at the outset that all such sales are decided by Parliament and are not decided by anyone other than Parliament. It is clearly written there, and it must now be remembered by everyone and now everyone finally understands what it is about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u94	And then the Minister's answer, please. And then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u95	Mr President! Metsähallitus will continue to produce good economic, recreational services for Finns and maintain the necessary natural values. There has been a lot of question here about these three balance sheet items, so if we clearly have three types of assets, then — look who it is, who said that apples and pears and other fruits should not be placed in the same basket — they should be placed in three sets. We've got those economic forests under a profit claim. Good, that's one balance sheet item. We have nature reserves, where the main thing is to safeguard natural values and biodiversity. And then we will have a lot of other areas where there are no return claims but where there is no such conservation status either. And I think that this tripartite is very clear. The committee has stated that this is justified, and this government will not undermine this in any way. Well, then there were the fears that now the harvests will rise as a whole or somewhere in one place. No, they won't. In other words, logging operations are based on this natural resource planning and, ultimately, on the amount of revenue claims that Parliament places on Metsähallitus. And if we go to the local level, then the recreational forests raised here in the debate there in Upper Lapland are currently equipped with a 3,000 cubic metres logging plan in natural resource planning, and nature services have implemented these fellings. It does not grow a cube cube or a california, but in the future it will spin here on the business side, just like the rest of the fellings. So here again, in practice, the situation will not change. This coordination of different interests is exactly what Metsähallitus does and of which Metsähallitus employees are widely valued. And this is something that has been sought to ensure — and I thank the committee for continuing to add that the company law was signed up to the fact that the company's employees and the company also have an obligation to take these social issues into account. And then, as far as these company employees are concerned, I understand Ojala-Niemela's concern at the local level that it should not be the company worker who should be entitled to conclude those contracts. On the other hand, you are terribly concerned that this company is not going to get too many rights. These rights must be agreed locally by the business community and, as the committee says in its report, it can give it to the company's employee if it wishes, but by law we do not want to open up any more rights, not to the company or its employee, but, if the coordination of its local interests so requires, Metsähallitus will be able to organise it. In conclusion: In a spirit of sustainable development, Metsähallitus will therefore continue to provide us with the biodiversity, recreational services that are no more expensive than they are today, the rights of everyman are not at risk. And then there in the economic forests the activity continues according to natural resource planning, and in the future it will be carried out by a 100% owned subsidiary of Metsähallitus, and it will not be able to hand over this right to anyone. I would really like to thank all the parliamentary committees for the difficult work you have done and for the great work you have done and for the special thanks to the Committee on Budgets. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u96	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u97	Mr President! If the work of the government is hard, then it is also the opposition when we have to teach this bourgeois government as a whole the fundamental values and case-laws of the West, the fundamental Finns in particular the criticism of the EU and regional policy of the Centre Party. I am not surprised at the fact that it is acting in accordance with its own ideological line and is prepared to enter into any kind of company if necessary. However, it has been forgotten by the people of the United States that the central points of Western fundamental values are that whoever owns their property is also allowed to sell. When Metsähallitus is not obliged to be incorporated, which is an indisputable fact, the procurement regulations and directives do not apply to the person to whom our national property has been entrusted. This is an inconvenient fact. All legislative changes could be made by domestic forces while maintaining the basic structure. No other EU country is even discussing a non-existent EU requirement. On the contrary, there are numerous organisational models for the management and exploitation of state forest assets across Europe. Some have bankruptcy protection, and tax practices vary from side to side. But how is it possible that, in the past, such an EU-critical party, the Finns, runs behind a non-existent EU obligation to hide? When it comes to the theme of the day, one might remind you that the ax is already at the bottom of the tree. It remains to be seen whether the European Union, which is swinging in the wind, will first fall or whether there is more than one disease, at least the tree of the Finns who are living in politics. The city centre seems less interested in the rights of local people when pure power play is played. Even at the end of the last period, the centre, together with the opposition and the Social Democrats, and with all the representatives of Lapland among others, was in the process of overthrowing the Metsähallitus Act, but immediately the position changed during the government negotiations. There are still no relevant arguments for the turn of the coat, and all kinds of explanations are all the more so. During the sad history of the preparation of this Metsähallitus law, it has become increasingly clear that this country is governed by the Coalition Party with 20% support. It is not in itself the fault of the assembly, but of those parties that surrender. Mr President! If only one option is taken as the starting point for drafting the law, then this is what the mark is. Nine years of this model has been forced through, and now we take the first step on the path that should not begin to run at all. Then it is easier to take the next steps. Representatives of the government parties reassure themselves and each other that state property is not moved anywhere and the shares of the company to be established remain state-owned. How do Members of Parliament who cannot vouch even for their own actions and opinions over the parliamentary term think they will bind the hands of future governments and parliaments? All means are now being used to calm a throbbing conscience. The mixed management model and management system, as well as the power struggle built inside the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, do not promise good for an inclusive planning process that has worked really well so far. On the contrary, new forest wars are likely to break out, and that is the least we need in the north. We have far too good examples of them in Eastern Lapland, Northern Lapland, Tunturi-Lap. In addition, the revenue and income requirements set by Parliament have already been excessive. Who believes that as the state’s economic situation weakens, the pressure will at least ease? Now a suitable tool is being created to tighten this screw. And still, the current Forest Law allows for beating down targets on both the private and the Forest State side that have recently been cut to a bread - free table. Because of all these changes, we are moving towards a period of permanent uncertainty with regard to the management of national property. If nothing changes, then why change when there is no EU obligation to do so despite nine years of search?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u98	Congressman Halmemenpää. - I'm sorry, I think it was. Myllykoski first, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u99	Madam President! First of all, I must say that it is regrettable, although the Minister has thanked us here and has thanked us for this drafting of the law, that this is a sad example of how handless it is to prepare the law. The Metsähallitus Act under discussion is crippled in many ways. During the last term of government, it was defeated with the support of the Left Alliance, Social Democrats and the present government parties, the Centre and the Finns, but now the government wants to take it forward for right-wing ideology, despite the fact that the wrongs of the law have not disappeared anywhere. Let us go on the same basis, with the same texts, but now that we have chosen this path, we have sought different reasons for the fact that the government programme entry, which is not going to happen here again, is really sad to read. The starting point of the law is totally flawed. The Government claims that the EU is calling for Metsähallitus to be transformed into a competitively neutral player. This argument is pointless. Metsähallitus' business does not need to be incorporated. However, EU Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager has stated in his reply to a written question from MEP Merja Kyllönen that EU law does not require any form of company or other organisational structure from the Finnish Metsähallitus, but we can define the organisational model ourselves as long as Metsähallitus does not distort the market. The so-called Destia decision cannot be compared to Metsähallitus. Metsähallitus does not compete with its own machines on the market. Metsähallitus does not have its own equipment at all, but it is responsible for planning land use and forestry in the state countries. All forestry-related activities have already been competitive. In other words, all the measures have already been put out in competition. What is the problem of competition neutrality in relation to the sale by the State of its own assets? Whose competition is it messing with? You can sell your own property. Madam President! Even if it were to be assumed that Metsähallitus would have to be transformed into a competitive neutrality, there would be no need to do so. The limited company is a dangerous form of management of the use of national property, as it is not subject to the same principle of transparency and publicity as the state. Companying also opens the door to the future sale of property. There are alternatives to a closed limited liability company, but the government has not wanted to find out in its incompetence. One way is to change the bankruptcy and tax treatment of Metsähallitus by enacting other laws and regulations. So let us make a change to the bankruptcy law, for example. Another possibility would be to turn Metsähallitus into a Yle-type special purpose company. A third option would be to create an independent public-law body on the forestry side of Metsähallitus, which would be bankrupt. The difference between a public limited liability company and such an independent body governed by public law is that this would be more closely subject to public supervision and supervision. For example, this option has not been put forward by the government, but we have heard, as a repetition, that the EU is calling for neutrality of competition and the best way to do so is by a forestry limited liability company. It would be in line with the good drafting of the law that other options would have been clarified and the results of the studies would have been presented to the MPs. Madam President! We are here as elected representatives of the people to legislate. Our job is to make Metsähallitus the best possible; that is what the people have authorized us to do. We can still influence the mistakes of the law now before us, which are actually based only on assumptions. If necessary, we can return the entire law to the preparation. Being in trouble before the EU does not serve Finnish legislation and does not give Parliament a sufficiently authoritative view. Concerns about Metsähallitus have been expressed by nature and outdoor organisations as well as individual citizens. There were nearly 130,000 signatures on the anti-company petition today. Our common property is important to Finns. That's why I'm proposing amendments to the law. A forest company must not be established, a third balance sheet item is not required, decisions on transfers between balance sheets must be submitted to the Parliament for decision, the natural resource plan must take into account the social obligations of Metsähallitus and the coordination of regional views, and Metsähallitus, as an employer, must respect social responsibility. These changes would improve Metsähallitus' operations, transparency and trust in the eyes of the people, and would guarantee the preservation of Finnish unique nature and the sustainable use of forests. Absolutely this law must be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u100	Mr President! The reform of the Metsähallitus Act applies to all land and water areas owned jointly by Finns. We haven't been in agreement. There is concern about corporateisation, natural values, respect for social obligations and also the protection of the culture of our minority people in Sámi. This has also been noticed by the citizens. In a short time, over 120,000 signatures were drawn up by the citizens themselves against the Metsähallitus Act. It tells us something about the importance we Finns attach to nature and the good management of national property. The message should be taken into account. A large part of the concerns are justifiable, even though not all the facts were true. It has been said that nothing changes. This argument is, however, difficult to justify. If nothing were to change, why has the whole legal project been going on for years? On the other hand, if only the competitiveness of the forestry sector is to be managed by a change in the law, why does the bill contain a lot of other changes that are entirely related to the organisation as a whole?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u103	Mr President! The story of the renewal of Metsähallitus law is a long one. It starts years ago. Now the law is here in Parliament, but unfortunately it has to be said that both the preparatory process and the content of the law are disappointing. The law on how to manage and manage the national wealth, land, forests, waters owned by Finns deserves valuable, transparent and competent preparation, i.e. the preparation of three As. That's how important this is. We have already had to ask questions about transparency during the preparatory phase. Even the Ministry would not have taken the law that changed from last year's draft without the loud demands of citizens and opposition parties. It was not valuable to see how intensely they wanted to bring elements into the performance that would have finally wrecked Metsähallitus's position in nature services. The committee heard a lot of experts, but the contradiction between opinions and estimates is a source of amazement. Unfortunately, then, the whole process of preparing this law does not deserve a very high school grade. Mr President! The SDP would have met the requirement of competition neutrality in EU law in another way. We would not have incorporated Metsähallitus' forestry activities but would have kept the organisation coherent and coherent. There would have been alternatives, but there was no need to open them in the explanatory memorandum. EU legislation does not require the incorporation of companies; it is the government's choice and is not the best way to do so. There is also confusion about the fact that, according to our information in other EU countries, there is not a similar process of incorporation, as well as the fact that the model proposed by the government for the incorporation and use of the concession is also a question mark in relation to the Commission's requirements. Mr President! Many have justifiably asked why not just treat EU requirements and leave the rest unchanged, Metsähallitus' activities when they are already in good shape. There is no clarity as to why a so-called third balance sheet is established between the Natural Services balance sheet and the business balance sheet. If there was a clear reason and justification for it, there would certainly have been a number of public fears and perhaps a misconception. Now, however, the third balance sheet raises only concerns and questions as to what public management tasks, i.e. the ability of nature services to function in the best possible way in the future. It is good to remember that public administrative tasks are not just nature conservation. Over the years, Metsähallitus Nature Services has accumulated a huge amount of expertise and must continue to retain the competence and sufficient resources required to manage the quality of nature conservation and recreation. The Ministry of the Environment must retain control and resource control over Metsähallitus' nature services, as the Ministry of the Environment has focused a great deal on expertise in land use and nature conservation. The criticisms of organisations, such as fishing and hiking and conservation organisations, about the third balance sheet and the transfer of water and land have been correct and justified. I believe that hiking and other non-business areas would be part of the public administration task force, i.e. under the nature protection balance sheet. This will ensure that the use of hiking grounds is not moneyed out. We agree with the criticisms expressed by Finnish Leisure Fishermen, Finnish Ladu and WWF, among others. Mr President! Parliament's Committee on Economic Affairs very much criticised the government's proposal and its objective of clarifying the management system. The result is a mix-up, in part even a contradictory presentation, where power and control systems are confused. Fortunately, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry made some clarifications to the proposal, in particular by clarifying the governance relations between the public administration and ministries. With such a confusing bill, it is clear that there has certainly also been some misinformation in the media about what is being done. It has even been suggested that, precisely for ideological reasons, the Ministry of the Environment's steering powers have been undermined. I hope this is not the government's common will. Independent and resourced environmental management must continue to be maintained in Finland. Metsähallitus is a unique entity that combines, first and foremost, business activities related to forestry and public administrative tasks related mainly to nature conservation. The idea of one master's supremacy is unrealistic. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank Finnish civil society, organisations and all those who have expressed their concerns for Finnish nature. Some representatives are anxious about the amount of feedback, but I have accepted it with gratitude. It is a sign that it is an important issue for our citizens and it underlines the responsibility of our decision-makers to make good decisions that will dispel people's concerns. Unfortunately, however, it has to be said that the proposal still leaves many things open. In the SDP, we believe that the law, in its current form, does not safeguard the national property of Finns and the related decision-making as high and open as it should be. Therefore, the SDP proposes that both legislative proposals relating to the government proposal be rejected and re-prepared. Mr President! I'll do the rejection motions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u104	Mr President! First of all, I support Mrs Tuppurainen's proposal to reject these legislative proposals. In this issue of Metsähallitus, we talked about the incorporation of forestry activities, and it hid itself largely behind the back of the EU. However, this argument proved to be unsustainable. The unfortunate thing is that we then came up with this procurement directive so that this case can be continued. In other words, by April this law should come into force if the concession was to be awarded. An artificial urgency was created, although it has also proved that access under the Procurement Directive is not even needed. It has nothing to do with government forestry. During the preparation of the Metsähallitus Act and the parliamentary procedure, it has not been possible to dispel these fears associated with the draft law in its current form. People's fears are not caught up in the wind. During the hearings with the committee, the impression has only been confirmed that the situation is now moving in a worse direction in terms of the transparency of the management and administration of Finnish national wealth. Parliament's influence will be reduced, a new third balance sheet will be created that has not been justified, forestry activities will be consolidated and alternatives will not have been properly explored. The committee made a few additions to the proposal, some of which are good and justified, and they move the problematic package slightly, but only slightly, for the better. Mr President! It has been a great disappointment that we are making a law of which so many have said that it undermines Metsähallitus's broad social responsibility, dialogue and multi-sounding approach. The status of nature services will be weakened and forestry activities will be incorporated into a form that has not been Notified in the EU. There is therefore a question mark as to whether the chosen model, incorporation, the requirements of EU competition neutrality are being implemented. It is clear, however, that Metsähallitus' activities will be hampered in many ways in the future by the form of the company.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, at the time of this debate, there has been a motion for rejection of legislative proposals and it has also been supported. I would like to say that these proposals will then be made in actual fact at the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u108	Mr President! We must ask Mr Ojala-Niemelä a question at the outset. When, on two occasions, you were underestimating the fact that Rovaniemi will be the seat of the forestry company to be established, you almost have to ask which place you come from — oh, yes, from Rovaniemi. So I'm surprised this isn't good enough either. I think it would be better to take a positive attitude to it. You should now consider how we could highlight this aspect, because two thirds of the land areas managed by Metsähallitus are located in Lapland. I think it is a very valuable and wonderful thing for the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry to take this point of view into account that the seat of the company that is now being set up is to come here. Of course, in the same breath, it must be said that this place of residence is not of great significance, of course, but it has symbolic value and can lead me to a very good and positive development in this direction too. Mr President! As indicated in the debate, in the context of the debate on this law, there have been a confusing number of allegations made in public debate, which are not based in any way on this law or on a government proposal. This has been very regrettable, and I can say that when reference has been made here to this petition of the citizens, which has been signed by some 130,000 Finns, I understand the concern of the citizens, but unfortunately that text of the petition is not true. If that were true, I could also sign the petition, but one might say that some of the citizens must have been misled by false information to sign this petition. There is no such thing as what is feared by the petition, and fortunately this is the case. State property, nature and forest are not in the process of being incorporated. We're just about to start a company that's going to trade wood. And it is extremely important for Metsähallitus to maintain a single Metsähallitus in this proposal, although at the same time I can of course say that I personally would have liked to have gone a little further in this connection in order to have a unified management system in Metsähallitus. Unfortunately, when significant business projects or other projects take place where Metsähallitus plays a major role as a landowner, then Metsähallitus can continue to produce two completely different opinions on the project, as it does today. Of course, this is not desirable and the best possible situation, but I can tell you that we have been able to live with this too and will certainly live with it in the future. When, in these speeches, Mr Mustajärvi pointed out that the centre does not respect the rights of local people, it is quite necessary to raise this issue and ask: What do you mean by that? Is there a local court that is being violated or will be reduced by this government proposal? That's not what I've found in this law. If there is one, I'd love to hear what it is. I understand that it is extremely important for the people of Northern Finland to retain the right to free hunting on state soils, and this is something that, for example, is not addressed in any way by this law. In addition, regional councils are being set up for the stalemate, which in fact improve the influence of people in the region in terms of land use. Mr Halmemenpää has said here that this will not improve the rights of the Sami people, but it will not weaken them. In fact, a certain amount can be said to be improved because of the coming of these negotiating councils. And that too must be said out loud that there has been feedback throughout the expert consultation, including from the Sámi Parliament, that Metsähallitus if someone has handled our indigenous people's questions in Finland at an excellent level. So there is no weakening in this respect. Mr President! When this government proposal has been discussed and I myself have studied this and listened to this debate here, an old saying has come to mind that the best is the worst enemy of the good. By this I refer to an argument error which has led to the overthrow of the whole law by the creation of a limited liability company under Metsähallitus, but at the same time it has been forgotten to justify what would be the alternative or in what way it would be better than the option now being proposed. I think it can be said that from the point of view of Finns, the nature of Finland or the people of Lapland, this government proposal does not bring any dramatic weakening in any direction. It is extremely important for us to be able to enjoy our natural resources, but also to be able to reconcile our land use interests so that, at the same time, we make use of it not only in tourism but also in sustainable ways in other industries, such as forestry, traditional industries and energy activities. And from this point of view, I think that this third balance sheet is very well founded. Those who are opposed to the third balance sheet would like to see all land, except those that use efficient forestry, gradually transferred to nature conservation and excluded from the possible use of all economic activities. And this ideological green thinking is based on the fact that you all move south from there in Lapland and Northern Finland and protect that whole region completely.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u111	Mr President! I said to Mrs Lohe that the lean comfort is that of Rovaniemi, underlining as a Rovaniemin, that this company has its seat in Rovaniemi. I did not underestimate this question. But I am surprised that the Minister did not have an answer as to whether this will bring jobs or tax revenues to the city. So does this remain a mere letter of the law, of course, but a symbolic meaning? Of course, I hope that this is not the case, although I am so afraid. I also hope that the Lapps will not believe that this matter is of greater importance than it is. This is also what I have been reading in the press over the last few days.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u112	Mr President! It was said here that no changes will take place in this third balance sheet and that everything will remain the same, there is nothing to worry about, even though large areas of land move from nature to the profit side. It was also found that all functions can still be well coordinated. The question remains: why do we start with these changes? I myself have received a message from large tourism companies that rely on national parks, nature reserves, and they are really worried if the host changes in some areas where they cooperate with these natural areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u113	Mr President! First of all, Mr Myller, the next time you are contacted by concerned citizens or businesses, you can assure us that there is nothing to worry about. National parks, nature reserves, these are not moving anywhere at all, nowhere at all, and there are no changes to their use. I find it very regrettable if the representatives decide to feed this suspicion, because there is absolutely no reason for it. It is also good to remember that Parliament will continue to decide on this increase in core capital. It is up to Parliament, which means that there is no change to the present state in that sense either. To Mr Ojala-Niemelä, you are quite right that the seat of the company has a symbolic meaning at this stage, but I personally hope that, as Lappish parliamentarians, we can now work together to influence the management of Metsähallitus in such a way that we can make them more and more jobs in Lapland to come and be tied up. I have already been in contact with Metsähallitus' management about this, and there is a positive attitude.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u114	Mr President! It is a little strange that Mr Salmon first barks at NGOs and perhaps even colleagues for fomenting unfounded fears and then announces that, if this third balance sheet is not established, all but the actual economic forests will become protected areas. Such an argument was also made in this debate by another representative of the city centre. As far as I know, such a claim is not based on anything at all. In this respect, I consider these arguments for the establishment of a third balance sheet to be purely ideological.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u115	The rapporteur, Mr Salmon, who gave birth to this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u116	Mr President! I did not criticise or criticise the NGOs. I said that I understood their concern about nature, and if the facts they presented in that petition and its accompanying words were true, I too would sign the petition. But unfortunately — or one might say that fortunately — the information is not true, that is, it is not now in the process of insuring the nature of Finland or making any dramatic transfer of the balance sheet item. One of the criticisms here is that these general waters have been transferred to the third balance sheet and that this would make it somewhat more difficult for leisure fishing to take place. These general waters, which move, are open sea areas in which leisure fishermen certainly do not work, and they are clear in the Great Lakes. If you take the backs of Lake Inari, they're already in Natura, and that way they won't even move there. In other words, nothing dramatic is happening here either from the leisure fisherman's point of view or from anyone's point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u117	Mr President! As I recall, I said to Mrs Lohe in my speech that the rights of the local people are at the foot of the power game, and I referred to the centre. The mystery remains as to why, among other things, Lappish MPs — a representative of the Finnish People's Party and representatives of the Centre Party — took a turn here over the last period when the content of both directives, for example, has been known for two years. So that can't be the argument. What rights, then, are at stake? Forest management and the use of forests, in various forms of use, are under increasing pressure all the time: felling is unevenly weighted, central government finances are what it is. I am quite sure that economic claims will be tightened, which means that they will be targeted so that they will not be ecologically and regionally sustainable, and then it will also mean increasing land sales. And when the owner changes, otherwise the rights associated with that ownership will be removed from those who would otherwise come through the state’s forest property.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u118	At this stage, I have spoken to the following representatives: Mr Korhonen, Mr Halmemenpää, Mr Maijala, Mr Kulmuni, Mr Aalto. Then I was a little unclear whether Mr Myller asked to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u119	Mr President! First of all, if Lapland and Rovaniemi are not interested in the company’s seat, it can then be transferred to Kainuu. To Mrs Myller: you said that the land or regions to be transferred to the third balance sheet would be subject to the target of return. They won't. There will be no return target for the areas transferred to the third balance sheet, but if a return claim is required for those areas, a transfer can be made by decision of the Parliament or the Government. Which means the transfer will come to this house anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u121	Referring to the specific point, Mr Myllykoski, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u122	Mr President! Just as Mr Korhonen said earlier, this is the case, but it must now be acknowledged that the third balance sheet can be sold without the consent of Parliament. It is precisely because it is said that nothing changes in itself, but it is worth pointing out that this is indeed what it is. At the moment, we have Parliament to decide on these matters more broadly. Now there are large areas where the Government can trade by its own decision, and then it will be dealt with in connection with the financial statements, and the Government will bless this procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u123	Mr President! In his speech, Mr Salmon presented a number of his own conclusions on the third balance sheet, which are not the views of any parliamentary group on this third balance sheet. The reason why we have questioned it is because the logic on which this balance sheet is based does not seem to apply. If the reason has been that those areas which are not clear forestry areas but are not clear protected areas are included in the third balance sheet, why are not all such areas located there? Why are the recreational forests of Upper Lapland not placed in the third balance sheet but in the core business capital? These recreational forests of Upper Lapland have been used to make fellings even during nature services, but very moderately. The natural resource plan would allow fellings to be made here, in the Jutua area near Lake Inari, 3000 cubics per year, but so it has not been done during the nature services, but only 1000 cubic metres per year in the last ten years. Now that the claim for profit comes,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u124	Mr President! First of all, I say to Mustajärvi that we have certainly not turned the coat around, but the circumstances have changed and the world is moving forward. So the reason for our change is this procurement directive, which is why this decision has to be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u127	Mr President! I'll have to go over a few basics. The property's not going anywhere. It is still in the hands of the State, it is still in the hands of the Parliament. And then it says here in the bill that Parliament will decide on the increase and reduction of Metsähallitus' core capital and the budget allocation for the increase of Metsähallitus' core capital. Increases and discounts, which are still decided by the Parliament in connection with core capital. This debate may shine through the lack of understanding of the variety of nature that exists in Lapland and Northern Finland, and the huge variation of livelihoods. Tourism is one of our fastest growing industries. Its share of GDP is beginning to be the same as Nokia was in the peak years. After all, the people of Lapland do not want to undermine the use of recreational, hiking or tourist areas. It's all a waste of time to scare me.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u128	Mr President! Here the representatives of the city centre are constantly talking about the fact that Parliament's control is not weakened, but in the future transfers between the natural balance sheet and the useful balance sheet will no longer come to Parliament but will depend on the decision of the Government. Am I wrong about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u131	And the replies to the representatives of Kärnä, the Salmon and Myller.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u132	Mr President! Yes, it is very regrettable that this misinformation is still on the move.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u135	Mr President! Here we are still where this debate began. These concerns arise from the fact that we cannot be clear as to why this third balance sheet item has been set up unless it has been set up to take various measures, as has now been said here, that it is possible to transfer from there under the nature services to that target by the Metsähallitus Government's decisions. This is the question that worries companies, tourism companies, because they are used to working with Metsähallitus' nature services and things have gone very well. It has been possible to reconcile different needs with the needs of businesses and the needs of nature and, of course, the natural needs are prerequisites for natural companies to be able to cope.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u136	And before the opening of this debate, Mr Lohea, Mr Ojala-Niemela, and then Mr Salmon.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u137	Mr President! I am used to respecting that man in Kainuu, Mr Korho, but I hope that you will not speak any modified truth or distort words. It is not a question of not being interested in coming to Rovaniemi, but it is not a question of creating false impressions that the sky is now opening up because of this if there are no more jobs to come or there are no more tax revenues to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u138	Mr President! Unfortunately, Mr Mustajärvi here still did not justify how this law would undermine the rights of local people. This will by no means happen, to any extent. And with regard to the suspicions that, in some way now, logging would change substantially with this law, I would like to stress that this is intended to preserve the single Metsähallitus group so that, even though it is a separate legal entity, this limited company is, according to this law, under the very strict and strict direction of Metsähallitus' management, so that, in the current way, these felling plans and natural resource plans will be used to do and continue these fellings. After all, we need Metsähallitus from the point of view of wood management, which is a very important and essential part of the supply chain of our forest-based raw materials, and there is no drama here either. I believe that this law will not change the minds of those who are already working in the field.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u139	Finally, Mr Leppä, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u140	Mr. Speaker! This is the third time I have said the same thing that I have already said here: All use of natural resources is based on natural resource plans, all of them. It's all based on a co-operation obligation, all of it. It is also based on specific legislation, such as the Water Act, everything. And this applies both to the different balance sheet items and to the limited liability company to be set up, and, of course, to the mother herself. They are all based on these three big questions, three big principles. In other words, if and when Nature Services, for example, have been chopping wood from the northern area, from a region of 0.1 cubic metres per hectare, it is in line with its plan and continues to be in line with its plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u141	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u142	Mr President! Firstly, in quite the same way as the chairman of the committee at the beginning, I see that this is a rare law that so much attention has been paid to cooperation at the level of the various actors and the ministry, and the report has also emphasised that Metsähallitus must try to speak with one voice, that is to say that conciliation and cooperation is the red thread of this government's proposal and the committee's report. And I do not think anyone should belittled that there are municipal councils in the Sámi region, where the Sámi districts are represented, there is a village meeting of the cots represented and, of course, there is a municipality. These three parties must be able to agree between themselves on how to promote equality and equality between residents and how to promote reindeer husbandry in state countries. I personally see that this balance sheet debate is interesting in itself, but my own view is that in practice in everyday life these activities go past and beyond these balance sheet areas. For example, hiking grounds, hiking trails, they go on the ground floor under a profit claim, and that is not the way to think about whether someone is solely controlled by some activity, because they go in a tight way. And after we have renewed the forest law in the last parliamentary term, it gives us the opportunity, with great consideration, to comply with fellings in those sensitive areas of nature, that I would not go all the way to criticising this law because it takes such good things into account. Mr President! A couple of weeks ago, about 20 editors came out in public, and they stressed good journalism. They condemned what was called fake media, and they stressed that they did not want to be silent accepters and co-stars of fake media. At the same time, however, quite a few luts were advertised, so to speak, this public address, which I do not detract from in itself, because civil activity is one of the fundamental rights of civil society and we certainly hope that people will take a stand and take part in the planning process at the decision-making stage. But I find it difficult to accept that the positions expressed in these ads are clearly untrue. They contain a certain appearance of image or like ultimatum propaganda. If I take an example, this is what they say: "It is about Finland's forests and nature. What is incorporated is also available for sale." When they talk about Metsätalous Oy, which has its own law, if anyone is going to sell such a company, they can at least have it in their heads, it completely ruins the entire Metsähallitus, which means that the entire Metsähallitus must be dismantled. How many Members of Parliament in this Chamber are ready to sell this Metsätalous Oy, even to consider it? No hand will rise, so I have to tell these petitioners tomorrow that no one here is prepared to sell, because there is no point in selling it, because it is an integral part of Metsähallitus. My point is that I want to draw attention to the fact that, both in this Chamber and outside this Chamber, when it is discussed, opinions may of course be different and views may differ, but even to some extent they should remain in the facts. It is much more meaningful work for each of us. As far as this limited liability company, Metsätalous Oy, is concerned, I think that the opposition is absolutely right and that some representatives of the government party have pointed out that the EU does not force us to join. But instead of what is behind this, there is this concession directive, which is laid down in 2014 and will enter into force on 17 April 2016, or national legislation must be put into effect before this date. This is the determining factor that has led both the government and the committee to consider whether it is worth choosing a lower risk path and setting up Metsätalous Oy, because it is obvious that this concession directive triggers so-called prohibited state aid by five different articles, which, according to the general EC practice, will lead to the liquidation of prohibited State aid. So this is a purely risk management issue, and at least I personally see, as the majority of the committee sees, that the lower risk is to enter into this forestry business, to give them unallocated rights, i.e. unallocated rights, because if we do it before 17 April, then there is a lower risk that we will have at least five years of peace, because the rights of use that go beyond EUR 5,186 million will have to be competitive. That is what this limited liability company is all about, and I think it should be adopted in the context of this bill, and in that way, as the government has rightly seen this Finnish ownership and the promotion of state functions, not as an ideological choice to become a limited liability company. Finally, I would like to say that I hope that in the future, when the committee gets its own opinion on how this law has progressed in practice by the end of 2017, we will receive positive statements there, how the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry have jointly managed Finland's nature and logging in such a way that people are satisfied, whether they are nature activists or representatives of the forest industry or beneficiaries. This is the whole purpose of the law: to emphasise multiple levels of cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u143	Mr President! The process of processing the Metsähallitus Act has been long and interesting. The law has been passed for many years, but still a bill was brought to Parliament, which has been criticised by a large number of contributors. The bill is so controversial that, according to press reports, even its own representatives from the government parties brought significant new proposals for amendments to the committee in the last few metres. Fortunately, however, these did not go through, as they would have meant deterioration from the nature conservation perspective. The basic problem with the law is corporateization. The absence of Sámi lines and the creation of a third balance sheet item also raise legitimate concerns. The question arises as to whether the aim is to produce the raw material needed by the emerging bioeconomy from the state's forests at the expense of biodiversity and recreational values. I hope not. The fact is, however, that the EU does not require the forestry business of Metsähallitus to be incorporated. The explanatory memorandum of the Act has not sufficiently comprehensively reviewed the various options for the reorganisation of Metsähallitus. For some reason, the proposed company structure has not been Notified by the EU Commission. Companying is a problem because it moves management away from democracy, reduces transparency and fragments Metsähallitus Group. There is also a fear of overriding economic interests in the use of land and forests over other interests. Indeed, the EU does not require the forestry business to be incorporated. The companying is justified by the fact that Destia is subject to an obligation to join as a precedent, which would also require the partial incorporation of Metsähallitus. However, the Destia decision is not applicable to the incorporation of Metsähallitus' forestry business, as it is a different type of activity. Unlike Destia, Metsähallitus forestry does not have its own equipment and does not compete with its own machines on the free market. Forestry does not cut wood, but it is responsible for planning land use and forestry measures, organising the sale of wood, directing harvesting and competitive implementation of work on state land. Forest management and transport are already being competitive. When the forest business does not actually compete on the market, it is questionable whether the company’s activities are competitively neutral. There are no market neutrality problems in other parts of Europe, as other countries are not planning to integrate similar activities or other changes. The question therefore arises as to why the functioning of the Finnish Metsähallitus is a problem if similar activities and organisational structures are not seen as a problem in other EU countries, which are nevertheless subject to the same EU regulation. So, once again, Finland is more papal than the Pope himself and rushes into the company of Metsähallitus before the EU even invents it. What is it about an EU obligation that only applies to Finland? Even if it were interpreted that the structure of Metsähallitus needs to be changed on the basis of the requirement for competition neutrality, it could be done better than the government's proposal. The mere incorporation itself does not even meet the market neutrality criteria. For example, the establishment of a bankrupt business entity by law and regulations or a Yle-type special-purpose company or an independent body governed by public law for forestry activities would be preferable to the incorporation. These could avoid the fragmentation of Metsähallitus and the transfer of significant national wealth to company secrets. The management and use of state forests is a specific task which is difficult to disengage from the control of countries to their own limited company without major problems. The urgency of the legislative process is justified by the expiry of the deadline for the procurement directive in April, after which access to the company to be set up should be competitive. The urgency is that even if the forestry business is incorporated, there is no need for a concession under the Procurement Directive. In other parts of Europe, the Procurement Directive is not considered to have anything to do with state forestry. The right of access to state countries could be governed by law and regulations rather than by a concession. This would remove the urgency of this legislative process and also allow proper preparation of the law and the examination of alternatives. Mr President! The committee decided to make some good and necessary changes to the draft law, thanks to them. The most important of these is the record that the establishment of a forestry share company is 100 % state-owned. This was a very good addition. In addition, the law added the responsibility of the limited liability company to comply with Metsähallitus' social obligations and the obligation to coordinate multiple use. These are very important and welcome additions. However, these changes do not remove the fact that this bill is a wolf.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u144	Mr President! As I said in my debate, so there have been a lot of views in the air, and there have been exacerbated opinions and even misinformation and preconceived threats. A bill based on necessity and reason has been criticised on very different grounds. The most visible have been the image campaigns of many interest groups that threaten the exploitation of nature, the sale of civic property and other unjustified threats. The new Law on Metsähallitus will continue to safeguard the ownership of the state’s land, forest and water areas. And one more time: After the amendment of the law, Finland’s nature remains a common citizen’s property of the Finns. In other words, state-owned land and water will continue to be owned and controlled by the State. And at no time have they been selling or transferring them even to this new company. The management and management of the areas remain the obligations of the Metsähallitus Group, which it cannot delegate to third parties. And further: no shares in the new limited liability company may be sold under the bill. So, what does the EU require? It is true that the EU has not yet actually threatened Finland, but the EU rules are the reason for the change in the law. Metsähallitus is a state-owned company that cuts its forests and sells its trees on the same market as private companies. And according to EU competition law, such behaviour by state businesses is not acceptable. State enterprises cannot go bankrupt and have a tax advantage over corporate taxes paid by companies. Thus, according to EU rules, this distorts competition. The establishment of a limited company and a subsidiary is not the only option, it is true. On the other hand, there are no clear options either. The arrangement ensures that land and water ownership remains with the State, as the new subsidiary only manages the practical work. Mr President! According to experts on official responsibility consulted in the Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Metsähallitus' forestry business should therefore be transferred to the subsidiary established by EU regulations. It is clear from the consultations and opinions that incorporation is the best option. This will ensure that Metsähallitus can continue to operate as it is today. There has been a lot of discussion about this third balance sheet. Once again, I would like to take part in that debate. We have a revenue balance, which means countries in economic use, such as the state's economic forest. On the other hand, we also have a nature balance, which means nature reserves, such as national parks. Then this third balance sheet, which is a kind of intermediate form. The legislators have not wanted to keep public waters and natural economies in the natural balance alone because they have both economic and recreational uses. But when we first considered moving them into the profit balance, there was a great deal of opposition. Thus, in the third balance sheet solution, the areas are decoupled from nature services and marked in their own basket. Since their management is transferred from nature to the profit side, i.e. from the Ministry of the Environment to Metsähallitus, the reform goes ahead, slightly ahead of the economy. The areas of the third balance sheet are not subject to income requirements. They must therefore not generate certain amounts of revenue for the State each year. And yet, the regions cannot be transferred directly from their own basket to the revenue balance either, but it requires a parliamentary decision. Mr President! Every time there are legal reforms, there are challenges to change. The proposal for a Metsähallitus law has sought to reconcile both the economic use of forests and the needs of nature conservation and recreational use. The responsible ministries are the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of the Environment. In the draft law, the management and responsibility system between the different entities that are focusing on these needs will of course remain unclear and, on the other hand, the values of nature conservation and recreational use, especially in areas managed by Metsähallitus, which are not economically used, should be ensured sufficiently clearly. To this end, I believe that Article 5 of the Law on these matters should be clarified. The KD's parliamentary group has therefore objected, in which we propose that the bill be adopted otherwise in accordance with the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, with the exception of Chapter 2, Section 5 of the Metsähallitus Act. amended as follows: "Public administration tasks. Metsähallitus manages and manages land and water assets for the purpose of carrying out public administrative tasks." And then a further sentence: "The Department for Public Administration and Other Legal Functions prepares and presents the matters relating to the management of the tasks referred to in this section to the Board of Metsähallitus." And one addition to the last sentence. The original sentence was 'State land and water assets intended for the management of public administrative tasks are not subject to a requirement for revenue', and then this addendum: 'but, in principle, a nature conservation objective.' If these changes were added, it would also safeguard all these doubts and strengthen the operation of this law for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u145	Mr President! I myself am a passionate wilderness enthusiast and a nature person, and I dare say that one of those in this hall who has been most present in the nature of Finland in various hobbies. I could never imagine being involved in adopting a law that would not safeguard natural values for future generations and would not ensure that everyman's rights, hiking, hunting, fishing, rights to natural activities and reindeer husbandry are preserved. And all of this is also secured by this present bill. The most important thing to remember is that none of the hectares of land and water owned by the State is moving into the company that is now being set up. This limited liability company only uses this property with an exclusive contract with it. This solution has been decided on the basis of a risk assessment. This risk assessment relies on the EU Procurement Directive, which could at worst open up the possibility for foreign companies to engage in trade and logging in government forests. And because of the social obligations of Metsähallitus in general, we certainly do not want this situation. This third balance sheet has perhaps now been the most important one in the debate, and there are a few points that need to be corrected. Just as Mr Salmon said in his speech, those who are opposed to such a third balance sheet believe that the use of all land other than intensive forestry should be in nature reserves.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u148	Mr President! In total, some 40,000 hectares of recreational forest are being transferred to Metsähallitus' business balance sheet from Upper Lapland. Is the EU demanding this? No, it doesn't. In addition, 2.2 million hectares of public waters and some 360,000 hectares of Upper Lapland natural economy areas have been proposed to be transferred to this so-called third balance sheet. Is the EU demanding this? No, it doesn't. The Group of the Greens does not accept the proposed amendments, for example in the context of the amending budget and the legislation that makes such proposals possible in this great Chamber. The public concern is that with the new legislation more recreational areas will be transferred to Metsähallitus' business balance sheet. The justified threat is that the economic use of the regions jeopardises the natural and recreational use of the regions. We do not believe that the place of state hiking areas and important areas of natural value is in the balance sheet of business. This proposed third balance sheet is a very unclear intermediate between business and nature conservation tasks. And even if this third balance sheet does not include a requirement for income, the areas within it can also be converted into economic use. The Green Parliamentary Group sees that the third balance sheet item should not be established and valuable nature conservation and recreation areas should be kept out of the business sector or comparable activities. Mr President! There are doubts about the reform of the Metsähallitus Act and attempts have been made to reassure them, for example, in this Chamber today, by saying that nothing will change with the Metsähallitus Act — and, as the chairman of the committee said, mainly nothing will change. Of course, if nothing changes, the question arises when it comes to common sense why a change in the law will then be made if the Commission does not demand it. I would much better understand these speeches that nothing will change if the draft law focuses only on the incorporation that is justified by the EU's competitive neutrality, but much more is involved in this matter and in the draft law. I and, among other things, those who have signed the petition against the reform of Metsähallitus, want to hear clearly from the Minister's mouth the assurance that this 'nothing changes' bill will not later mean the 'everything changes' Act, which will turn the protection of natural values into the unsustainable over-use of natural resources in accordance with the so-called realistic nature relationship. As far as this parliamentary competence is concerned, as Mr Kärnä also pointed out, we have a well-founded concern that in future transfers between the natural and useful balance sheet will no longer come to Parliament but will depend on the decision of the Government, and the Government will do what the Government wants to do. This is precisely the sloping surface that we are quite rightly concerned about. And with regard to what the Greens have put forward in relation to the rights of the Sami people, the Metsähallitus Act should include the corresponding articles defending the rights of the Sami people, which are laid down in the Water Act, the Mining Act and the Environmental Protection Act, and which were included in the proposal for the Metsähallitus Act prepared by the previous government. That is what we are calling for; that is what we wanted to see in this legislation. Unfortunately, in the committee itself, only the Greens and the RKP defended these rights of the Sami people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u149	Mr President! We have to say this once again, which is also very clearly written out here in the report. When it comes to this conservation balance sheet, the second balance sheet and the third balance sheet item, it may be that the Government's decision may also transfer areas from the third balance sheet item, which has no income requirement, to this conservation balance sheet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u152	Mr President! I do not understand when Mrs Aalto states that you are rightly concerned about how you can rightly be concerned if the text of the law clearly states that such balance sheet transfers cannot be made without the decision of the Parliament. Like a representative. My corner has just pointed out that the areas in the conservation balance are already protected under some legislation. If they were to be used in any way, it would then also require the repeal of protective decisions and the decision of Parliament. Just like this, look, it is. And this petition. Did I understand correctly that this petition had been signed by representative Aalto? It is truly disconcerting that when you have a petition made with such false arguments, starting with the fact that our national ownership is not a trade and is opposed to the Metsähallitus Act, the representatives go on to sign these, even though they certainly know that the basic premises with which this entire petition was drawn up,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u153	Mr President! If I had signed it, I would have said, "I and those 129701," but I said, "I and those 129702." So I did not sign it, but I, too, want to hear the answer to the concern that has been expressed quite rightly in this petition, despite numerous mistakes. This is an accurate observation. I did not sign it, but there are a lot of real concerns there, as has been said, and as far as these balance-sheet transfers are concerned, the transfers between the nature balance and the benefit balance can be made by a decision of the Government without consulting Parliament, and we believe that this is the incline surface and the subject that is quite right to be concerned about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u154	Mr President! In its report, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry states that the current form of Metsähallitus, as the manager of the state's land and forest areas, has achieved very well its objectives as a provider of wood for the forest industry, as a producer of raw materials for the bioeconomy, as a source of government revenue, as a conservationist and conservation site manager, as a developer of recreational opportunities for citizens, as a provider of employment opportunities and as a coordinator of other land use. Once again, the question arises as to why this new law has now been adopted when it is said that the present system is working very well. What we really need now is what the Social Democrats have said in their protest that this law is being recast and only prepared in the context of the laws where those changes are needed, and leaving the well-functioning parts as they are now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u155	Ladies and gentlemen! We have had a few long debatts and I hope that the remaining debatt will focus on the argument raised here about the limitless or limited or unlimited transfer of these balance sheet transfers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u156	Mr President! It is precisely on this point that an answer should be made. In my opinion, no representative or parliamentary group in this Chamber has claimed that the Government should only decide on transfers between the third balance sheet item and the conservation balance sheet in a certain direction. We in the Group of the Greens have been of the opinion that no balance sheet transfers should be decided by the Government alone, but that all balance sheet transfers should be decided by the Parliament. We would like Parliament to be the body that decides on such transfers of significant social assets. That's what it's been about. But I would like the government to answer two questions to which I have not heard a single answer. Why is this third balance sheet item established? And why is part of the balance sheet transfers wanted to be transferred to the Government's decision-making power?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u157	I can still see one more response. Mrs Majala, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u158	Mr President! This is the third balance sheet. We in Lapland do not necessarily want any more new protected areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u161	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u162	Mr President! I support Mrs Halmemenpää's proposal that the third objection should be taken as the basis for the debate. The forest is the oldest soul nurse in Finland. In this dispute, Metsähallitus law is about how much we value Finnish nature and to what extent we see it only as a source of raw materials and land, over and over direct exploitation. In the public debate, the main focus has been on companying, and there have also been unfounded ideas, but it is essential that more than 100,000 people are concerned about what will happen to Finnish nature, and this law goes in a bad way in terms of natural values. I am delighted with the activeness of the citizens and I am surprised by those who disapprove of the active citizens. Personally, I am not primarily concerned about this corporateization, about the incorporation of logging in government forests, but about everything else that happens on its wing. The role of Metsähallitus' nature services and the steering powers of the Ministry of the Environment are weakened by the wing of the companying. According to press reports, an attempt was made in the committee to take this issue further than the government's proposal. I'm glad it didn't work out. This law is based on an old-fashioned view of forests and nature only as a source of immediate economic exploitation. Much greater in importance and economic value is the health benefit we derive from outdoor activities and recreation in nature. Nature tourism also plays a major and growing role, especially in Lapland. These values must not be jeopardised by the direct exploitation of state forests. Now I would like to raise two points which I consider to be major degradations and which have nothing to do with the EU: the reduction of the steering power of the Ministry of the Environment and this third balance sheet, which we have already talked about a great deal. In addition to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Ministry of the Environment directs the whole of Metsähallitus, including its activities in economic forests as regards the management of biodiversity. That's what we have to do in the forest. The Ministry of the Environment's steering powers are now being reduced to the actual nature conservation and public administration tasks. When we remember that Metsähallitus controls one third of Finland's surface area, I think this is a deplorable situation. This is not what the EU requires, it is what the present government parties demand. I have still not heard any reasonable explanation for the establishment of this third balance sheet. Indeed, there is no basis other than the desire of the government parties. Indeed, it is not enough to justify the fact that there are false claims in the public debate. If the idea of the third balance sheet were to include everything that is not actually a protected area, but not a protected area, then why does the third balance sheet not include hiking areas, as Mrs Halmemenpää has said many times? And why should the third balance sheet manager be the management of the business, why not Metsähallitus' nature services? In other words, the only thing left in hand from the third balance sheet is that more than 2.5 million hectares of land and water are transferred from Metsähallitus' natural resources to the management of the business, and these regional transfers are decided by the Government and not by Parliament. Mr President! Still on the status of the Saami. Ninety per cent of the Sámi area is controlled by Metsähallitus, and more than 300,000 hectares of Lapland's natural economy areas are being transferred to this third balance sheet, practically the Sámi reindeer husbandry area, which will no longer be hosted by Metsähallitus' nature services, but by Metsähallitus's business management. That is what the Sami people with whom I have spoken are very concerned, and I understand that concern very well when we know the disputes that have taken place over the years with the business sector in Metsähallitus and when we know that the government parties do not want this law to be equivalent to the ban on the weakening of the rights of the Sami people, which is already in the Water Act, the Mining Act and the Environmental Protection Act. Against this background, it is difficult to believe the claims that the bill would strengthen the position of the Sámi. Yes, the Sámi view is that it undermines the position of the Sámi. Mr President! Finally, the Sámi are the only indigenous people in Europe as defined by the indigenous peoples of the UN treaties. I very much hope that we Finns will finally be able to rise to such a level of civilisation as to give the Sami people rights under international treaties.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u163	Mr President! The reform of the Metsähallitus Act has received enormous attention, and it is, of course, great that it is of interest to both representatives and citizens more generally, because we are dealing with our most valuable natural resource and with those forest holdings which are the majority of our land area. All forests and waters are our common national property and will remain so in the future. When Metsähallitus is regionally, especially in Northern Finland, Kainuu, Lapland, a very large employer and 70% of wages go to these regions, it is an important player for the people of the north, and the tax impact of Metsähallitus is also very significant in many municipalities in Northern Finland. In the course of the reform of the law, there has been intense debate and concerns, but I do feel that some of those concerns are somewhat over-emphasised. This law establishes a central government forestry subsidiary owned by Metsähallitus-liikelaitos. State land and water are still controlled, owned by Metsähallitus, and the subsidiary would only be entitled to use forestry forest for business purposes, i.e. the assets will not change. And that right cannot be transferred to a third party either. The steering of the Finnish Parliament and Government on Metsähallitus' activities remains the same. Parliament will continue to adopt key service and other policy objectives, changes in core capital, maximum investment and consent to borrowing. There is therefore no reason to fear that decision-making powers will be lost beyond the reach of political decision-makers. Why, then, is it now that forestry is being incorporated? Of course, it has to do with the concern that, if we did not act at all, after the entry into force of the EU Procurement Directive, the State would no longer be able to grant exclusive rights to its own company, and this is precisely to guarantee that the operator under state control will continue to operate forestry on an exclusive state-owned basis. And I do not think that the opposition is against this either — we do not want to open it up to foreign companies, but we want to keep it in domestic hands.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u166	Mr President! The Metsähallitus Act has been prepared for more than eight years, so all the parties represented in this Chamber have been able to participate as a government party over the years in its preparation. Now that we have the Metsähallitus Act before us, you can say that this has become a social debate and concern that goes beyond reasonableness. Unfortunately, there has been a lot of misinformation about the bill and threats built on preconceptions. Correcting them has required patience and respect for democracy, while at the same time the law itself must have been taken forward. The changes brought about by the law change are related to the renewal of Metsähallitus Group's management system and organisational structure. It facilitates the management of two bodies under ministerial guidance and responds to the requirements of the procurement directive that will enter into force next month. The Procurement Directive would prevent Metsähallitus from operating in its current form if its organisations were not reorganised. In practice, the change means the creation of a new limited liability company under Metsähallitus and the introduction of a third balance sheet system. Finland’s nature is not consolidated and no property is transferred. The state will remain the owner of all existing land and water areas as well as today. Management and management of the sites remain obligations of Metsähallitus Group, which it cannot transfer to a third party. No shares of the new limited liability company may be sold according to the bill. Metsähallitus' task will continue to be to manage and protect the state's land and water assets in a sustainable manner. In economic forests, it means sustainable and productive forest management, conservation of biodiversity in nature conservation areas and the provision of nature services in recreational areas. None of these tasks will change, and there will be no change in the use of the regions. Such significant changes will continue to be made in the laws adopted by Parliament and in the state budget, as well as in government decisions and, where appropriate, under the guidance of the relevant minister. A bill based on necessity and reason has been criticised on very different grounds. The most visible have been the image campaigns of many nature conservation organisations, mainly the Finnish Nature Conservation Association, which threaten the exploitation of nature, the sale of civic property and other unjustified threats. You can't help but wonder what these claims were made of. The new Law on Metsähallitus will continue to safeguard the ownership of the state’s land, forest and water areas. Here, in the first round of debates, the opposition parties had twice raised the surprise that, during the discussion of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the representatives of the government parties raised their own amendments. One cannot help but wonder that the MPs of the government parties do not have such a right. Some of them we received, but in a good spirit and consensus within the committee then certain changes were made and some were abandoned. It is the right and duty of the MPs of both the government parties and the opposition parties to make amendments.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u167	Mr President! The reform of Metsähallitus is an issue that is really big for Finnish society, for our nature, for our forests and waters and for the wider Finnish industry, for hiking, for recreation of nature and for the preservation of national property. This has now been prepared for nine years, and there are many different points of view. I would have liked it to be The Sipilä Government would have brought to Parliament a proposal that would as much as possible unite the Finns, which would have been able to take a stand over the years during the preparation process, and which would be able to reconcile the need to continue forestry in a form that meets the conditions of EU competition law and procurement law, while at the same time preserving the state of our nature for our children in good condition, to ensure that the national property remains in the hands of Parliament, and also to ensure that our nature conservation authority, Metsähallitus's nature services, will continue as a central guardian of our nature tourism and nature conservation. For some reason, the government has gone to the end to confuse this bill with objectives that are not in any way part of the original question-making process. I am in a bit of a special situation here as a representative of the opposition and as a former Minister for the Environment in this legislative process, when I have to thank the Minister of Government, Minister Tiilikainen, for rejecting the even worse amendments raised by the MPs in the parliamentary procedure, but at the same time I have to say that this proposal in itself jeopardises the state of nature conservation in Finland. In other words, it seems that there are many MPs in the government parties — they are fully entitled to do so, they have the right to express opinions in committee, they have the right to propose amendments, but it is good to say this out loud — who want to drive down the independent environmental administration in Finland, the independent nature conservation authority in Finland and also the Ministry of the Environment. The only thing that seems to prevent these people is that citizens get to take a stand in a wide public debate, and because people in Finland widely value nature conservation and the preservation of our environment, the constitutional role for public authorities to cherish the environment in a good state, clean for the joy of every Finnish citizen and for the safety of the future of our children, for these reasons these amendments will not go through because people do not want them. This final reading in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, on the basis of what I have seen about it, has been quite a farce: after nine years of preparation, attempts are being made to drive the Finnish independent nature conservation authority down, with completely incomplete information. Metsähallitus is an organisation that has worked very effectively as a guardian of nature conservation, as a guardian of nature tourism, as a guardian of wilderness hiking, fishing and other matters, and the organisation within Metsähallitus that does this is Metsähallitus' nature services. It's hard for me to understand where that need comes from. Nature services are completely under the weak management of the business, which primarily, that is, Metsähallitus' own group, thinks of forests and waters as more of this kind of raw material storage. It can be seen from the various views of Metsähallitus' business management that forests are primarily wood cubes for them, and it is an old-fashioned way of thinking. It seems that this way of thinking is surprisingly common in Parliament, and then it would be worth looking into the mirror — our forests and waters provide Finns with the best possible welfare when we understand that these forests and waters are valuable to Finns in the wider sense of tourism, recreational use, health, well-being and also income through fishing, which is a well-understood source of regional economy, i.e. through tourism and restaurant services, through hiking, through wilderness tourism, through fishing. Now that nature services are being transferred here under the parent group to this third balance sheet, a water and forest property that is significant for completely mystical use, especially in Northern Finland's Lapland, the Parliament could not know what to do with them in the future, because these balance sheet transfers... So, in principle, even nature reserves, national parks could be transferred to the third balance sheet by the Government's decision in the future, when this power is now transferred to the Government from the balance sheet transfers between these balance sheets, and Parliament would no longer decide whether national property is primarily reserved for the use of nature conservation or whether it is intended to be used economically for other purposes. What I think is wrong is that it is precisely these incomes from nature tourism that are important to the regional economy, and when nature services have also been a good partner for tourism entrepreneurs, why move these countries to the management of business, which also has its own Quality Land company, which is involved in tourism activities, instead of having: Nature services as a neutral partner would cooperate with private entrepreneurs in developing tourism services? I have received a lot of feedback from entrepreneurs that they, too, wonder what is going to happen to the forests that move here to the third balance sheet and whether they can continue to cooperate with nature services. Mr President! Finally, the questions about the rights of the indigenous people of Sámi are also strongly linked to this legislative reform. I find it difficult to understand that once Parliament has had a long-term will, the Constitutional Committee has had that will and also the previous governments have had the will to move forward with the ratification of the ILO Convention, that it is possible to adopt it in Parliament, this bill of law does not take the step forward that these bans on the weakening of the status of indigenous people, which were prepared during the last government, should be included in this law. This constitutes a practical obstacle to the ratification of the ILO Convention unless these articles are subsequently amended. Then there is the suspicion that the government parties do not want to ratify the ILO Treaty, and on this question I would like to hear the answer that, when squirming words have been used, that it will then be resolved later, is this a sign that the rights of the Sámi are not intended to ensure that they meet the requirement of the UN Convention of Native People. But finally, Mr President, I would like to thank you for the fact that, at the end of the day, the Minister: Mr Tiilikainen remained firm in the fact that there were no more degradations of the status of nature services than in the original proposal and some articles even strengthened the control of the Ministry of the Environment, because it is important for our forestry and water assets to be decided on each issue by the authorities, ministries and those responsible who are best acquainted with the very issues. Natural responsibility lies with nature conservation authorities because they know them, and business responsibility belongs to the people responsible for business and economic affairs, including the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. When this division of labour is respected, we will continue to do well in Metsähallitus.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u168	Mr President-in-Office of the Council! The Metsähallitus Act has been in place for a long time, as has been revealed here. Unfortunately, the phrase'slowly good' is not correct with regard to this law. We now have a law on our hands that no one seems to have anything good to say about. This was at least evident in the committee's expert consultation. Finns have a strong relationship with nature and especially with forests. The countries of the state, i.e. the countries, waters and forests owned by Finnish citizens, are important to Finns. You might even say that they are vital. We draw from them both economic returns and recreation, strength, natural gifts. Metsähallitus is an emotional organization of many kinds. The activities of Metsähallitus are mainly welcomed. So the organization works. Why are we now changing a functioning organisation? When there is a law that changes the management and management of state countries and forests, a lot of questions arise, including fears. Regrettably, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Minister for Responsibility Tiilikainen has not been able to dispel these fears about the reform of the Metsähallitus Act. Is it unnecessary to be afraid? I wish I could say they are. But I disagree. We are now in the process of making and adopting a law which, at best, continues the current state of affairs, the functioning of Metsähallitus, which has extensive social responsibility and which takes many interests into account in the country of the state, in the same way as in the past. But, at worst, it changes the pattern in a direction that is hard to predict. In any case, the law changes Metsähallitus' internal operating practices and power relationships so that there is reason to be concern about who and what interests Metsähallitus will lead in the future. Mr President! It has been said many times about the Ministry that nothing changes with this law. However, everyone can read in the law’s explanatory statement that many things change. There has been a well-founded concern among the citizens on behalf of hiking and recreational areas and who will exercise the highest authority in these areas in the future. What will happen to the multi-purpose forestry carried out by Metsähallitus? What will happen to the reconciliation of different interests in the regions if power is gathered under a business unit? There is also concern that forestry activities will be incorporated. What does this mean in the future for government forests and countries? It is good to remember, especially since there are two former European parliamentarians here, that European competition law does not require incorporation. The requirements of competition neutrality could have been met by other means. These means are not being sufficiently opened up in the explanatory statement of the law, even if there was a reason to do so. The preparation of Metsähallitus law has not been as transparent as it should be with such an important law. Even the consultation was avoided last autumn, but fortunately, after loud public feedback and the strong demands of the SDP, the consultation was organised. There have also been many loops during the committee reading. Sometimes I felt that even downtown representatives were not behind their own minister’s proposal. It's confusing. Will there be another law in Finland that no one wants? At this stage, I would like to thank the active citizens and organisations who have made commendable criticisms of the law. Small changes to the law were made in committee. However, it was not enough for the SDP because the core issues, the incorporation and the weakening of nature services remained unchanged. Feedback on Metsähallitus legislation has been constantly contradictory. The committee's opinions on the law were also critical. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy particularly criticised the reform of the management system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u171	Mr President! The Government Programme outlines, modernises, meets EU requirements in Metsähallitus legislation and clarifies its management system. The current Government proposal does not support the Government Programme's approach to clarifying the management system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u172	Mr President! This has now been turned into a bull, but the opposition always does. Now that there is such a patriotic government, then of course good decisions are being made. That's when. Tiltu always screams and in such a way that it grabs the people's ear. The committee's general arguments state that forestry forms the core of Metsähallitus' business. The sales of timber account for over 90 per cent of Metsähallitus' net sales. Metsähallitus’s forestry performance area has a turnover of approximately EUR 340 million and is active in the timber market throughout the country. Metsähallitus sells and supplies wood to sawmills, pulp and paper companies and the energy industry. Metsähallitus supplies wood to its customers' factories under conditions similar to those of other operators and operates in open markets in competition with other wood suppliers. Then from the forests of Upper Lapland, as much as has been said here that it goes for forestry use: Who needs those skitters out there? At the current cost level, it is not even worth correcting them. They will certainly remain there for the needs of natural resource centers and conservationists. The industry doesn't need those trees. According to the main actors in the forest sector, it is clear that the Metsähallitus Act needs to be reformed in its entirety. The management system and administration should be clarified so that the management and logging of state-owned economic forests are carried out at least at the current level. This will enable real euro-denominated revenue to be made available to the State. Mr President! Metsähallitus Group needs to coordinate business activities, social obligations and public administrative tasks in order to create a functional entity. Public administrative tasks must be provided to Metsähallitus in accordance with Article 124 of the Constitution. The existing state agencies, such as avavit, elyt and the Finnish game centre, can carry out public administrative tasks. These agencies may also issue official opinions on nature conservation areas. Management of state land and water assets is Metsähallitus' main task. It must be preserved entirely by Metsähallitus. This is very important for the reform of the management system. Ownership steering must operate through Metsähallitus' Board of Directors and the Executive Director as a whole. The operators of Metsätalous Oy must have the rights of landowners to manage, hack and generate money for the owner. Metsätalous Oy must also have the exclusive right to use the land and water areas of its owner by a clear law that defines social obligations. Metsähallitus' balance sheet must be in the responsibility of the Board of Directors and the Executive Director. The balance sheet must include land, forest and water areas of the state owner, which in the long term ensure strong results and a significant amount of wood for the forest industry, for growing use of wood. Mr President! It is important for the sawmill industry to ensure the level, volume and efficiency of wood supplies. Long-term operations, predictability and customer orientation are a prerequisite for the operation and development and growth of the sawmill industry in Northern and Eastern Finland. Sawn timber was the fourth most important export article in Finland in the year before last. The value of exports was EUR 1.4 billion. Almost all inputs are domestic. Sawmills use one third of the raw wood harvested in Finland each year and pay two thirds of the stump money income of forest owners. Sawn timber is a sustainable building material and demand for wood is increasing. The wood chips, chewing gum and bark are used as raw materials in the pulp and particle board industry and as a fuel for renewable energy. So saws are the backbone of the bioeconomy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u173	Mr President! By the way, it is a great thing that for us, the people in our region, the very important thing, Metsähallitus, is such a big and important thing and there seems to be almost everyone interested in it. Thank you — welcome only to Savukoski in practice to see what these things are. However, the first problem with this law is that when this law began to be made and dealt with, this information has been mismanaged. And when a person has no knowledge and uncertainty, the situation may even be as confused as it was in public. To simplify the question of what this law is about: the Procurement Directive will now enter into force in mid-April. We need to change the form of state forestry business. It's all there. Change the form of state forestry business. As a result, we must, for example, set up these balance sheet arrangements, which will include a third balance sheet and other, in practice, technical changes in this area. Then, the municipality of Savukoski has expressed a critical opinion during the preparatory phase, as has many others with whom I am dealing very much, and on the subject, because there was no information at the preparatory stage. There is now better information on tax revenue issues. There was a great deal of uncertainty, uncertainty. It was uncertain what this management will be like in the future and how to deal with social obligations and all these issues. It was a good thing that these were brought up at that stage of preparation, which has brought this law and its reports forward very well. Risk management. We really need to take certain political decisions. We political decision-makers must also be prepared to make strong decisions, even though it sometimes seems that everyone, the public and society, is not ready for them, but we must take decisions to prevent the accumulation and emergence of problems. We made a risk management decision in such a way that we chose this form of limited liability company for the pursuit of this forestry activity. And why did we take this? At least in Savukoski, we remember how in the '70s they were competing for large oars in fellings and what its consequences were and so forth. We can't afford to go back to the '70s. Then, in my opinion, one essential point is that the whole of this debate has been seriously neglected. It is the position and role of the workers. Here I would have liked to see these people, who are particularly concerned about the status of workers, who represent more employees here, have even mentioned in one speech what will happen to the employees of Metsähallitus. These negotiations have begun. There has been an attempt to get these things into this law, but at least I, for my part, point out that we must pay attention now in these negotiations and when these company arrangements are made, that we must ensure that these workers are given the status of workers, that it is and will continue to be, among other things, that their pension benefits will be the same as they are at present. We have to make a strong point of this. Remember, you who can influence this. The second point is this social situation in our region, by the way. I'm sure this decision will give you peace now. And this is especially a big thing for Metsähallitus employees that after this, we can think things over in peace. This winter has been very difficult for the majority of Metsähallitus employees. Our job and role is to help them move forward. Then, Mr President, I will go to these Sami issues. I also have a great deal of concern for the position of the Sámi, as I am part of this group myself. I am a chemist who, last time, did not have enough proof to be included in the election list for the Sámi people, but it also became clear in the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court that my culture, background and Lappishness were not denied. I'm part of the people anyway. We live as part of nature, we practice traditional natural livelihoods. Breaking nature is like breaking us and our lives. It is important that the law as a whole takes account of the traditional life of the locals. The new Sámi district has just begun its operations, and the new Metsähallitus Act will also enter into force in the same entity. I hope and expect that, in the past, well-managed cooperation between Metsähallitus and the Sámi Parliament will be possible in the future and, in particular, even better than at present. I challenge the Sámi districts and Metsähallitus operators: Take another step and put into practice the possibilities provided by the law. The law allows us to put into practice the same things that were read in the earlier motion in the ban on weakening. Think about this more carefully. As a lawyer, I've been studying some of the articles on the bans on weakening. Take a look and compare what they say. Compare what is currently written in this law. This law actually gives the same possibility. This gives us a chance. It says here we move on. The reason why they could not be put directly into this law now under the heading of the ban on weakening is that the situation in Sámi policy is currently contradictory, and the time for the conclusion of the ILO agreement is not now. So things are the most important thing. Things have been taken care of by this law. We will also go on building in these matters of the Sámi. New constructive discussions and opportunities are now important. As far as the Sami issues are concerned, this is the case with the care and use plan; there is a reference to the legislation of the Sámi people; there is a reference to the constitutional rights which should now be taken into account; there are new negotiating councils; there are agreements and practices currently in force which are maintained. Finally, Mr President, it is a good thing that we get to work in practice and then we can discuss, among other things, the demand for profits. And on that point, I think that it is absolutely oversized at the moment. In our region, Metsähallitus is definitely cutting forests too young and so away, but that is the subject of another debate. We're gonna get this organization in shape and then we're just gonna start talking about felling.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u174	Mr President! I could begin immediately with Mrs Maijala's speech at the end by saying, just as Mrs Maijala did, that, in my opinion, the demand for Metsähallitus's income at the moment is too high. Unfortunately, far too young forests are being beaten at the moment. Metsähallitus is an important actor for the whole of Finland and Finns from many different perspectives. However, the significance varies from region to region. As we all know, the role of Metsähallitus in the north is, of course, much more important with large forest ownership than here in the south. And, of course, against that background, it is good that this new Metsähallitus Act also provides in Article 39 for the setting up of advisory councils to help decision-making and to give it a regional perspective in the decision-making process of Metsähallitus. When the bill was in the referral debate in December, I had several questions about the content of the bill at the time. First of all, is there and was there a need for the type of incorporation and change proposed? Metsähallitus is a state-owned company that cuts its forests and sells wood in the same market as private companies. The state's business can't go bankrupt. They have a tax advantage compared with corporate taxes paid by companies. The risk is, therefore, that without changes, Metsähallitus' operations would become significantly more difficult due to the risk of distortion of competition. The EU Procurement Directive will also enter into force in April, after which the State would no longer be able to grant exclusive rights to forestry to its own company. This, of course, caused the law to process its own timetable. Personally, I understand that a change of law leading to the incorporation of companies must be made, even if the EU legislation, including the Procurement Directive, is not going to pose a threat in the future. The bill ensures that, within the framework of the new EU procurement legislation, foreign and foreign operators do not have the opportunity to penetrate the state forests, but that the harvesting takes place now and in the future at home. The issue of company ownership was then a political solution to which, of course, alternatives have been put forward in the report's objection. However, the starting point of the new law is that the land and water areas controlled by Metsähallitus form a whole that is appropriate to manage within one organisation, and that is why this joint-stocking solution has now been chosen. In other words, the timber trading and harvesting section of Metsähallitus is wholly incorporated into a state-owned company. This company cannot be sold, as has been said here in several speeches. A firewall has been built in the bill that prevents Metsähallitus Oy from being transferred to any state ownership. Not one hectare of state land and water is transferred to the company, but it uses it exclusively under the concession and, note, according to the performance targets set by Parliament. Metsähallitus manages the company's operations as it has until now. The third balance sheet, which has been discussed in the public debate, has also caused many speeches and questions here today. I personally understand that the creation of a third balance sheet clarifies the current situation. There are no revenue targets in the significant areas, the areas fall within the competence of Metsähallitus' Government and, if there is significant business use in these areas in the future, they can be transferred to the income claim by the Parliament's decision. There are no national parks, nature parks or wilderness areas in the third balance sheet. The transition regions are therefore mixed areas of use, which are mainly non-productive recreational areas. They compare by nature to state hiking areas, which are already in Metsähallitus' revenue balance. On the other hand, hiking areas are covered by the outdoors law, which limits their use. You can make fellings in hiking areas, but lighter than in other state countries, i.e. hiking use. The areas of the third balance sheet are to be used in the same spirit. Thus, the regions themselves are not expected to make any profits.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u177	Mr President! The Metsähallitus Act has given rise to a lot of debate, and that is no wonder. It is, however, a question of how the State-owned forest, water and land areas are managed, about our common national property. When the Metsähallitus Act was started, one of the reasons was precisely that the EU procurement directive brings about the change that we need to ensure that we can keep Metsähallitus' business activities in our own hands. It is a good thing that we ensure that we have jobs here, but now, with the drafting of this law, a lot of other things have been included in this, and they are those who worry the citizens. This is a matter of concern to the citizens of Oy, but I personally am pleased that the record required in the referral debate that it is 100% state-owned and that it will then require changes here in Parliament, if anything is to be sold, has now been taken into account in the bill and will dispel the worst fears. It is true that there would probably have been other ways of ensuring this procurement directive's compliance than the incorporation of companies, but I understand that it would have been so difficult in this timetable that we went into this form of limited liability company. But it must be said that although there is false information and perhaps unjustified fears on the move, the government parties themselves have instigated that fear in this process of processing. The fact that, when the law was started to be prepared under this government, there was no desire to hold a public consultation, the desire to hold a referral debate here without the Minister being present, and finally it was at 4 a.m., and the fact that the government parties still wanted to continue the debate without the Minister being present — yes, they certainly raised questions about which dog is buried here, and the fact that, in the last few metres, the government parties are bringing forward amendments that are not constitutional. At this point, we must acknowledge Mr Tiilikainen for wanting to ensure that the referral debate was then held so that he was here and, on the other hand, that he was here today to hear and also rejected the most brutal amendments that had been brought in by the last metres, which would have been desired from the point of view of the government parties to this law. Of course, the concerns that remain in this law are that the role of nature services and the steering and decision-making powers of the Minister for the Environment are being significantly undermined by the Government of Metsähallitus and the Director General, who are primarily guided by financial interests. These threaten the quality of nature conservation and the use of hiking, tourism and recreation, while at the same time endangering the ability of citizens to enjoy Finland’s fine nature in the future. This third balance sheet, on which much has been said today, is the big thing that brings confusion to this bill. There seems to be no response to this tonight, even though much has been said about it, and it seems that many people are interpreting it in their own way. It is not really surprising, because this draft law itself is quite open to interpretation as to what this means, and that third balance sheet is referred to there in the explanatory statement of the law, but not in the text of the article itself. That's probably why everyone interprets it a little as they see it, and that's why they say that nothing really changes, but still there are such moves that surprise you. Why are those recreational areas in Upper Lapland not there now in the third balance sheet, even though it is now reported that this balance sheet is this kind of balance sheet for economic use and nature conservation use? Shouldn't they be there? Why are there not state hiking areas, are they not just such areas? Another issue that has raised much concern is how the positions and rights of the Sami people are safeguarded. It has been said here that the status of the Sámi does not change, that it could even improve slightly with the creation of negotiating councils, but at the same time, at the same time, a huge number of Upper Lapland natural areas, i.e. reindeer grazing, will be transferred from the management of nature services to the business side. Of course, it causes concern in the Sami people, and this is precisely why the law should have been given a ban on the weakening of the rights of the Sami people, which would have ensured that this concern is unfounded. The government parties have argued that the ban on the weakening of the rights of the Sami people is lacking in this bill, that it should not be done now because the ILO agreement has not been ratified. But we have these similar prohibitions now in the forest law, in the mining law and in the water law, and yes, they should have been in this law. Mr President! If this law were only to establish this company now, I would not be so concerned about it myself. But the problem is that this incorporation has involved so many points that undermine the position of nature services and the authority of the Ministry of the Environment and create a threat picture of how our state-owned forests and lands will be managed in the future, how much economic interests will play and what importance will be attached to other useful and recreational use of forests. That is why it is difficult to support the draft law as it stands, and I support the amendments made by Mrs Halmenpää. If they are brought into this law, then this is acceptable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u178	Madam President! The preparation of Metsähallitus law has really been going on for a long time. During my ministerial term, I remember that in 2009, this preparation began for the simple reason that a bill was being adopted which repealed the Business Administration Act from the beginning of 2010. It is the background for which this legislative process was initiated in due course. The discussion around this Metsähallitus law has been somewhat over-exploited. People have been intimidated for nothing. I have also received a message from people asking me if I can no longer visit and travel, for example, within a certain national park, such as the Lamp. I have replied to the questioner that in exactly the same way, there will be no change to it. Against this background, I am very sad that some nature organisations, together with the Greens, are behind this intimidation campaign.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u181	Let's take a few answers, or at least one.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u182	Mr President! Representative Anttila criticised the distributors of false information. Now I'd like to ask, when is the representative? Anttila has noticed that the Greens are spreading information about this company that is unfounded? It is precisely in the parliamentary process of this law that the Greens have stated that this incorporation is not the greatest concern but all the other, weakening the position of the Ministry of the Environment and the status of Metsähallitus' nature services, which is taking place in connection with this law. Mr Anttila, who in itself rightly criticises the dissemination of false information, could you now tell us where you have noticed that the Greens are spreading this false argument about corporateization?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u183	Mr President! The centre has now been profiled here as a party that says that there are no significant changes, and at the same time it has itself promoted clear weakenings in the status of nature conservation, in the status of nature services, in the position of the Ministry of the Environment, some of which have been rejected, and, with the support of other government parties, has set up a third balance sheet for which nothing has been told except that the business management uses those countries in the way it wants, and in the future the Government can effectively transfer any country, forest and water from the nature balance without interfering with this third balance sheet — and you have not explained why. It is a rather weak preparation that this is what has been pointed out at the end. I would like answers to this, and Mr Tiilikainen has no other answer to this, perhaps then the centre field wants to undermine nature conservation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u184	Mr President! To Mr Hassi, quite briefly, I have many incorrect messages in my e-mail that are certainly backed up by people who are members of the Green Party. I'm not going separately to blame anyone, but quite a campaign has been carried out, and there is a significant part of the misinformation. It is good to have different campaigns, but there should be a little more facts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u186	Mr President! If there are opinions in the civil debate that do not please the representatives of the city centre, then there is no need to be indignant about it and say that this must be the fault of the Greens and Greens. You can visit our website to see all the statements made by me as party chairman or otherwise by the party. There are no factual errors. To the fact that in the civil debate people can also have other views that we do not direct, there is nothing we can do. This discussion related to the incorporation: I admit that there have been some excesses. But, above all, the fundamental question here is that national property, what is done to the forests and waters of the state, that it remains in the hands of the Parliament, is of paramount importance, and you cannot claim that this does not weaken here, because the balance sheet transfers between the third balance sheet and the natural balance sheet in the future are only behind the back of the government and the decision of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u187	And Congressman Hassi was short.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u188	Mr President! The Greens do not send messages to Mr Anttila's e-mail. I would like to point out from this incorporation, which has been the biggest clutter and the most false information, that the protest of the Greens does not call it into question, but those things on the wing of the company.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u189	Representative Anttila still wants to answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u190	Mr President! Just for a minute. Minister Tiilikainen here in an excellent way assured me that this solution will not move ariad of state-owned property, of which there is talk, anywhere else. When it is sold, it will be up to Parliament to decide. You might want to think that you wouldn't always create a threat image of each subject based on assumptions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u191	Then let's go to the list of speakers, Mr. Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u192	Madam President! This was an interesting debate, and I could have waited a while to speak. I personally believe that a great deal has been said here about how the forest is an important soulkeeper and nature is a very important value, and I personally consider our forests and nature very dear and outdoors very much, very much. When this Metsähallitus law came into the debate and the parliament, I was also concerned when such things came out that our groundwater would be sold and our forests sold. In fact, just now I received a message from someone I know that is it really this way that groundwater is about to be sold, and I had to answer again just now that this is not the case? That is why I myself went on to listen to this issue with a very sensitive ear and, from the point of view of the Constitutional Committee, this issue was also looked at — I am a member there — and then there was an expert in EU competition law, and I was convinced that this procurement directive would require action from us. I personally believe that we should look into and weigh things up and find out, and I personally have now become convinced that this arrangement has been made so that our groundwater and land are not for sale, and I, at least not on the basis of the views of this competition law expert, would dare to risk that, if we did not do this now, this could actually happen to us. Personally, I think it is important that when the people, the Sámi, have raised this concern, that this issue should be discussed, it is very good. It is good that the citizens have brought this concern. But in today’s discussions — as in the first referral debate when Minister Tiilikainen was here — it seemed somehow that no matter how much was said and brought up, there might not be any desire to believe here in Parliament. I would assume that the public will gradually begin to believe, but it is up to us and also to the opposition how we want to see a strengthening or weakening signal coming from around here. Here, as I recall, the representative of the city centre, Mr Kärnä, said that he could never be selling Finnish land and water, and I can say that neither did I. Many times in Hyvinkää city council, for example, when I am a member, I find that I am even greener than the Greens. As an example, we have a nature reserve there, and the Greens want to have longwoods there, so that everyone can get there to watch the birds nest, and I resisted the longwood issue because I thought that they would let the birds nest in peace, so that people don't have to make noise everywhere. This is just an example of the fact that I personally genuinely believe that this issue is not going to go the way it has now been presented in public. I don't know who's spreading them or not spreading them, I'm not going to think about it. I think the most important thing is that we retain ownership in the state and that our property cannot be sold anywhere to third parties. Then I have to say so much — in that debate I did not get the floor when I was unable to ask again immediately — when the SDP and the Left specifically accused us of being sitting here silently, that they must have turned their coats too. Well, I don't know, at least I personally feel like I'm not up for that minute's time-out, that someone said there was someone selling and the balance sheet is there and the balance sheet is here, and the other said there isn't. At least I didn't feel it necessary to go into that debate and comment more and say the same thing as everyone else. It doesn't mean you've turned your coat around if you don't want to take part in such a little — well, let me leave out what type of conversation, but everyone can now put that word in your mind. Then again, the Mustajärvi of the Left was somehow so great when he was constantly criticizing the Finns and that, having done this and this last season, and this law has been being prepared for nine years, is it somehow terrible that this law will finally be brought to an end, and especially now that the procurement directive is pressing on that it should be restored to nine years of preparation? Okay, I understand that during the previous parliamentary term, the government had a little bit of a style that didn't really get those things going, but I think we now have effective government cooperation. Of course, we disagree on matters and will certainly twist things in our own groups and try to make them work, but this is where Finland’s interests will determine, and you can be absolutely convinced that every one of us is interested in Finland’s nature and that we own our land and water. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u193	Mr President! Various threats and fears have been raised in this debate regarding this Metsähallitus bill and, for example, the third balance sheet and so on. I believe, and I am sure it is, that these fears are genuine emotions, but the other thing is whether they are based on this government proposal or whether there is any concrete change in the way things are going after this, which would actually cause these fears to be realised. My strong view is that the basic idea here has been in connection with the presentation of the entire government's proposal and even after that, even though forestry Oy is established, i.e. the wood sales business is incorporated, so in fact it is desired that activities more or less like the current ones continue in Metsähallitus and that no major change takes place in practice. I believe that this is certainly everyone's will in this regard. But one thing that will certainly have to be ensured in the future when more specific provisions are drawn up in the Ministry is that the municipalities of Northern Finland, for whom this is very important from the point of view of tax revenues, will continue to secure their tax revenues. This has been promised that this will be the case in the future, and this should be the case. I would also like to emphasise here that: In Lapland, everyone wants to preserve the peace of the forest. And we believe that we will be able to reconcile the various interests of land use in a sustainable way. Therefore, I would have preferred a clear article in this law on the limited liability company to have been included, which would have authorised and obliged the staff of the limited liability company to coordinate the various forms of land use there at the practical level. It is a pity that it was not taken up, this must now be done in another way, but it would have been much clearer that, as the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy states in its opinion, such an authorisation would have been incorporated into the law itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u194	We will then take the answers later, if necessary, but let us go to the list for a moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u195	Madam President! The Government's proposal proposes a new law on Metsähallitus. The general task of Metsähallitus would continue to be to manage, use and protect the state’s land and water assets under its control in a sustainable manner. State land and water assets controlled by Metsähallitus would remain directly owned by the State. I do not think that the new draft law will bring about any changes to this most important point, even though this has been feared in many speeches today. This information has also been falsely disseminated by a number of nature conservation organizations, and it cannot be that false information is being disseminated by the state. This should be taken into account in the funding of these organisations next year. I'd rather put that money into the important work of game management associations. The social obligations regarding Metsähallitus' activities would remain unchanged. Social obligations would continue to be taken into account when setting the service and other operational objectives of Metsähallitus. In addition, Metsähallitus should continue to take into account the requirements for the recreational use of nature and the promotion of employment. Metsähallitus offers job opportunities in the context of profitable business and expanding societal tasks, especially in areas in Eastern and Northern Finland where jobs are otherwise low. Forestry forms the hardest core of Metsähallitus' business. Of Metsähallitus' turnover, timber sales account for over 90 per cent. Metsähallitus' total estimated total number of trees in economic and recreational forests is 300 million cubic metres and the estimated total annual growth is 11.4 million cubic metres. The annual removal is about 6 million cubic metres, so with good forest management there will be enough forest to cut down in the coming years. Other business activities of Metsähallitus are related to the utilisation of land and soil materials and the production of recreational services. Nature reserves under Metsähallitus, in particular national parks, are important for citizens' recreation and tourism. National parks are also important outdoor areas for people who do not otherwise live near Metsähallitus countries. Hiking, berrying, mushrooming, hunting and fishing are the most common forms of recreation for citizens. Metsähallitus offers nature trails and breaks in its areas as well as activities for nature tourism companies in addition to the above-mentioned leisure activities. In the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, we stressed in particular that in the area of Metsähallitus, everyman's rights should not be interfered with. Free use of the hiking network must also be ensured. Similarly, other recreational, fishing and hunting rights and operational practices related to hunting should be maintained. These are the things that people other than those living in the vicinity of Metsähallitus appreciate and engage in. I also regularly use Metsähallitus services several times a year. One of the main social obligations of Metsähallitus is to ensure the conditions for the Sami culture to be exercised. This proposed law contains two provisions on the rights of the Sámi. In this respect, the conditions for pursuing the Sámi culture remain unchanged. The population of Northern Finland also has rights under special legislation to use state land and water for fishing, hunting and reindeer husbandry. I think it is important that these rights remain the same. This same right should also be extended to the countries and waters of Metsähallitus in the area of Eastern Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u196	Madam President! Forest management is of the overgenerations, which has been understood historically in Finland at an early stage to safeguard the well-being of the country and the people, physical but also recreational use. Would we be the people of Finland here without our forests? Forests have once been set up to combat hunger, wood has been cut down to build homes, and industry has been processing wood for export in many forms. The early important export product was tar. Well, cascading and tar burning at the time made forests worse, and for that purpose Metsänhoitolaitos was established in connection with the Land Survey and later Metsähallitus. A general forest law was enacted in 1886, and its spirit applies even in modern times, that is, "Let the forest not be destroyed." This proposal today continues our good forest legislation. Nor is this proposal the same as in the last period, which was widely opposed even then. In addition, the proposal has changed for the better in committee. The subsidiary to be established is 100 % owned by the State and the change in the basic capital is decided by Parliament. In addition, I believe that the committee's statement wisely states that 'the Board of Directors will take the necessary steps to locate the seat of the company to be set up in Rovaniemi'. After all, state forests are located in our northern provinces, and it is right that locality should be exploited, including in expertise, but based on existing experience. The social obligations of Metsähallitus will remain. And at least I want to believe that when it is written in the law, it is the social obligations and taking them into account, these words also mean it as a statement and written by a Finnish person. In addition, the State manages its own land and water areas on an exclusive basis and cannot be transferred to a third party. The third balance sheet speaks, and there is talk of a major change. Many laws bring about changes in prevailing conditions. But, for example, the transfer of recreational areas does not break down any laws on nature conservation or any areas protected under the Habitats Directive, i.e. Natura 2000. And we have, in relative terms, the largest number of countries in the European Union. In addition, we did not have a report in due course on the species-specific level of favourable protection, i.e. a proportionality comparison, which would have clarified the required level of protection for landowners. My sense of justice is at least a violation of expropriation for the purpose of protection if the comparison of proportionality was inadequate or not at all. The situation is that we have protected habitats and species with a good conservation status without Natura 2000. For example, the number of forests which have been strictly protected corresponds to more than half of Belgium's area, i.e. more than in any other EU country. State forests have also been protected throughout the country. These forests are limited to the outside of economic use — i.e. nature parks, national parks, areas covered by conservation programmes. The European Union Commission has approved the Finnish Natura 2000 programme, so our protection is also in order, measured by EU criteria. But I think that the forest should be able to be used. It's our natural solar panel. And the old forests, I understand, are a carbon stock, not a carbon sink, and when the forest rots, it produces carbon dioxide in the air. But all in all, forestry has become many. The forest has been found again in many ways. Multifaceted use has also developed in a good direction. This law, ladies and gentlemen, certainly does not remove everyman's rights. There is no restriction on recreational use. And recently a new national park, Hossa, was also established, which will then eventually be transferred to the appropriate balance sheet. Metsähallitus has indeed had disputes about logging in the Sámi regions. In that sense, this and the enactment of this law must not be blamed for disputes, but must continue to work in cooperation with the Sámi people. There are always two parties to the dispute. And speaking of the Sámi, I too want the work of the indigenous people, homes, languages to be preserved and the future of the Sámi people to be safeguarded. And I am grateful that there is specific legislation for this. And also, the Sámi have been taken into account in a number of specific laws, of course also in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u197	Mr President! I will continue with what the risks are here in real terms when this third balance sheet comes under Metsähallitus' parent group, and what it can mean in practice. When it is said here that the transfer of balance sheet capital from natural capital to financial capital goes through Parliament for business purposes, it only applies here to land that is transferred directly to it under the target of return, but the countries and waters which will continue to be on the side of other capital there after this law would, in principle, be able to move between this third balance sheet and the natural balance sheet, without prejudice to legislation. In theory, then, it is possible that if the government so wishes — and the chairman of the committee can correct me if I am wrong — then even national parks can, in principle, be transferred to the third balance sheet if that is what they want. That would not only make sense, but the law does not restrict which parts of the natural balance sheet are transferred to the third balance sheet. In other words, at the first stage, 2.5 million hectares of public waters and then northern Lapland forests will be transferred there. The likely risk is that other naturally valuable forests in the nature balance, which are not official nature reserves — still there in the natural balance sheet after that — may also be transferred to this third balance sheet. This gives rise to this kind of completely vague, unclear field in which the government's own decisions can take areas for a different economic use than what in the nature balance, protected by the nature conservation authority is normal practice. So the current situation is changing significantly. This is an important change in how our decision-making on countries and waters is managed. The fact that the centre is justifying that such a balance sheet will come because, in fact, nothing will change, then why do you base it when there is no reasonable reason for it to be removed? The likely idea is that some of the people in this third balance sheet think that: Nature services are a bad ruler for these countries and that the business principle wants a ruler from the parent group who can then do something with them other than the nature services. And then these countries will move from being primarily hiking areas, recreational areas, nature reserves, wilderness areas to a shady area where there is likely to be a risk of planning tourism activities through Metsähallitus' own company, or Qualityland. It's not so open. As a member of Parliament in the Coalition Party, I would be concerned that when Nature Services cooperates well with private companies and with entrepreneurs in tourism, how transparent it is that Metsähallitus' mother group suddenly acquires land and starts to Through the quality country to do business there with taxpayers' money. The quality country, it is worth recalling, is a kind of landfilling class company, which was taken over by tourist destinations and gravel and other land use sites that were not previously sold when the decisions of previous governments sold to private companies similar commercial activities that were not profitable by the state. So, the landfilling class company, and now there is a risk that the parent group wants to start doing some tourism business with taxpayers' money, probably at a loss, instead of continuing to dominate these countries and cooperating well with entrepreneurs. Well, as a first step, there are now 360,000 hectares of forests in Lapland. They are valuable old forests that have been moved aside, not as official nature reserves, but as areas that are important to the Sámi industry. There are also countries agreed on in forest dialogue and forest peace, which have been transferred to the nature balance because the Saami, conservationists, the forest industry and other interests were at least ten years ago brought about forest peace in Lapland. I myself have spoken to representatives of the forest industry. They do not understand what this is all about, why we have to create a third balance sheet, why we should move the land of forest peace to such a new category, where they may be used in some way. The risk is that even if they are not in line with the goal of profit, the parent group may start there perhaps more fellings, because they are not primarily a naturalist. They can also think about other things, promoting mining, promoting gravel extraction, promoting tourism, anything in the forest can do like this from the perspective of the traditional raw material economy, because this is the expertise that Metsähallitus' mother group unfortunately has very narrowly today. If you want more recreational, camping skills, that is the competence of Nature Services, which currently manages these areas. In other words, the question is that the centre has been led by a desire to transfer countries from general hiking, recreational and nature conservation use, from cooperation with tourism entrepreneurs to a vague balance sheet where something is being done with them, but nobody openly says what. I believe Mr Leppä understands that I am genuinely confused about what this means. No one has been able to explain to me what the reason for this is other than that for some reason they do not want Nature Services to cherish areas that are not official nature reserves. But when nature services are an effective organisation in this promotion of nature tourism, in broader hiking, they know this diverse value of forests in these forms other than the raw material economy, would it not be reasonable for the regional economy to have the authority and the operator who knows these different uses, which are the main ones, who is responsible for them? I have not received any reasonable response to what is needed for a third balance sheet. With regard to the general water supply of the state, there is also increasing pressure to operate on them, and I would strongly warn that through Metsähallitus' parent group it would become a large-scale commercial activity because it was not very profitable in the past. Wild North wasn't a profitable operation. Forestry logging is a profitable activity, it is a core business in forestry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u202	Let's take a few answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u203	Mr President! Representative Niinistö there said that if you were a Lapp MP, you wouldn't want the Lapps to come and tell you, voters, that they're scared of this and this. And that is why I would hope that there would not be a kind of fear of these things with such a speech that now something will happen that Metsähallitus, the mother company, would go to these third-balance sheet countries, for example, to engage in some kind of tourism business. That is why I would like to ask Mr Niinistö: is there a reference in this government proposal, in some explanatory statement or section, that suggests indirectly or directly that Metsähallitus would come, the parent group or some other part of Metsähallitus, to start its own business in these countries, such as the tourism business to which you have just referred? Or was that just talk that wasn't based on this government proposal? I fully agree that it is sensible to maintain forest peace. But I do trust the activities of Nature Services as well as the activities of the entire staff of the parent group. They can look at the whole thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u204	My representative, Mr Kulmuni, followed by a reply from Mr Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u205	Madam President! I would like to thank the Greens for the fact that the criticism has now been transferred from this own incorporation to the dialogue from this balance sheet, which is of course a new issue and which is why we need to have a debate. However, just as the former Minister for the Environment well knows and as you pointed out in previous speeches, there is also a lot of other legislation which then affects these areas: reindeer husbandry law, nature conservation law, Natura law, the law on national parks. They can't be transferred anywhere without a government decision to fight against some other legislation. And in Lapland, of course, reconciling different livelihoods is terribly important. Metsähallitus has played such a conciliatory role there, and I hope that no party will want to foment such uncertainty either from some new forest disputes. And have you considered that it is possible, if and when the Greens are once again in the government, that it will then be possible, by decision of the Government, to transfer areas from the third balance sheet to the nature reserve by a decision of the Government?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u206	Then there are two replies, representatives Niinistö and Halmemenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u207	Mr President! If this horrendous nonsense goes through this bill, surely we in the government would then transfer those lands back to where they belong, that is, the nature balance. But there's no point in doing this. This only confuses the fact that Parliament should make a clear decision so that we know what the primary purpose of a region is. And now there's gonna be one of those dumps that we don't know what they're going to do. And I can refer to the contributions that have been made in the wider public debate that they are under great pressure. In general, press articles on this issue recognise that there are different uses to be applied for in this third balance sheet, but for some reason it is not said openly. Because otherwise there is no basis for such a thing. And indeed, since this natural resource planning has been very good and fruitful in the north, I would not go to weaken its operation,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u210	Madam President! If this new, proposed third balance sheet were consistent with the logic of its establishment, then it would not even have to be opposed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u213	Mr President! Congressman Halmemenpää, do you know the forest law? Indeed, there are very many points that require that not all areas of the forest be hacked or treated. Metsähallitus' operating and management plans I have read and studied them very much. There are many multiple points that will never be targeted at any kind of logging operation, and that is why it makes sense that we clearly have forestry, which also includes a certain number of such areas that are not targeted, and then we have statutory protected areas. And now I will end my speech on this third balance sheet. I have said so many times that it is clear that we will then have this third balance sheet, which includes these non-protected and non-economic areas. In other words, this third balance sheet does not have a yield requirement, and I believe that this is a clear whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u214	Now there are quite a few: there is representative Salmon and then Halmemenpää and Niinistö. Then again, on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u215	Mr President! In fact, I would like to ask Mr Niinistö when you are opposed to the third balance sheet and you think that the third balance sheet item should be transferred there to be managed by Nature Services, and the reason is that you fear that there will be a business activity in the third balance sheet: this means that you will also object to the fact that there should be no economic activity in those land and water areas in the third balance sheet. And that is precisely why I consider this to be sensible, because if we were to leave only the land in the income balance, which is used by efficient forestry, to engage in economic activity and everything else would be excluded from it, this would be very serious, for example, in Lapland, where these land areas are mainly located, the development of all economic activities, both tourism and the development of all other economic activities. That is why I think it is important that we have this third balance sheet, and not that they are all transferred, try to gradually slip it into the scope of protection and away from any other sensible use.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u216	First I promised Mr Halmemenpää, and then Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u217	Madam President! Mrs Maijala, I know the forest law very well. It has been part of my university degree’s basic studies, and I have also studied its new version. It is true that no one in this Chamber has proposed that Metsähallitus in the areas on the balance sheet of the business area should beat up illegally and regardless of the provisions of the forest law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u218	Mr President! I think Congressman Salmon accidentally revealed a lot about his motives and also the motives of the government. He said that we need to make sensible use of land from the nature reserve, and then he described the fact that, while the current situation is maintained that things are in the nature balance, the current state would be somehow total protection. It's not like that. Nature services are just an operator who understands and appreciates more the business that comes from these countries through hiking, tourism and other industries and reconciles it with nature conservation, while the parent group is more of an actor who thinks about things from the perspective of the raw material economy, who does not know about nature tourism at all. My idea has always been what I get from the tourism entrepreneurs and people in the hiking industry in Lapland, that Nature Services is the right host to the commercial development of these regions, because they can develop it on the terms of Finnish nature, nature brand and tourism, and it brings much more money to the north than making mines and gravel pits everywhere and ruining northern nature. That now try to think a little more closely about what's in the best interests of the country. These countries are valuable to us and they are also valuable as sources of tourism income where they are kept in good condition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u219	Mr President! Mr Salmon has not listened to what the Greens have said when he claims that the Greens do not think that any economic activity should be carried out on the land of Metsähallitus which is now under the auspices of nature services without being in actual nature reserves. It would be good to listen to the speeches you are criticising. For example, in my own speech, I pointed out that economic activity is now taking place in these regions and that the fact that their host, the representative of the state owner, has not prevented this yet in any way been achieved by Metsähallitus' nature services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u220	Mr President! Yes, my motives are that in Lapland all areas that are not nature conservation areas can be used in such a way as to be rationally used for economic activities, as they are today coordinating various economic activities, such as tourism, which means that not all areas should be beaten, for example, even if they are in the forestry sector. Coordination of these land use interests. But there's plenty of room for us in Lapland for forestry too. We can accommodate the extractive industry when it is carried out in a sustainable way. Not all mines, but in a sustainable way they are practiced in harmony with other livelihoods. There is room for reindeer husbandry, there is room for many kinds of livelihoods, including energy projects. And that is why it makes sense that we have this third balance sheet, that those who are clear protected areas are clearly there in the nature services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u221	Mr President! Mr Salmon here acknowledges that this is probably the idea for the government parties to try to speed up all kinds of mines and perhaps energy projects and others in the north.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u224	Then there are two replies, and then we will certainly move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u225	Mr President! I think this is the representative. Niinistö did exaggerate quite a bit the words of the signatory, that I would be in favour of us putting mines and pits everywhere. It was precisely I who stressed that we believe in Lapland — that is where we local people and decision-makers — that we will be able to reconcile the different forms of land use in a sustainable way and so that there will be no mines everywhere, but there will also be room for them when they are managed in a sustainable manner with nature. And this whole basic idea of the Metsähallitus Act when you read it — was it Article 2 or a clause stating that Metsähallitus' task is to manage state countries in a sustainable way, and that it is justified on the grounds of ecological sustainability, social sustainability and economic sustainability — I understand that we agree quite a bit that these other industries can fit in here. As far as Lapland is concerned, nature conservation and therefore tourism interests are concerned, because tourism also needs countries and it also needs land areas for development that can be processed. It is not a question of us wanting to spoil our most important asset for the future. On the contrary, we want to cherish clean nature and our air there, because that is the basis of the success of our tourism today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u226	Mr President! Here is perhaps a little black and white this perspective on the economics of Northern Finland and Lapland, that there would only be nature conservation areas where it is then operated, or just such forestry issues where it is conducted. There is a huge scale between different industries, and Of course, it is in the interests of the people of Lapland that we have the widest possible and diverse business structure, and it may not always have come out of the speech of the representative Niinistö, that we want to develop the fact that there are many things you can try in Lapland. Of course, the all-inclusive theme is that it must be sustainable for both forestry activities and all other industries and tourism and recreational use and just any industry, and this kind of business confrontation is, of course, terribly unfortunate that it would be either—or, but must be taken into account for the wide range of things there is, and given that in Lapland, however, the last few years people have diminished, and yet considering how hugely well-known the province it is, how great the opportunities we have, it should also be promoted by representative Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u227	Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u228	Madam President! Congressman Anttila was talking there, and I'd like to pick up a little bit when he said, "Don't we lob these things here?" Let us take an example. When there was this gender-neutral law, the same email came from several hundred. Same thing was fur farming, got stuck in the e-mails. Now came this Metsähallitus law, the same thing, the same e-mail from many different senders. How can it be that suddenly, when such a law is being discussed here, starts from the same direction to become such a lobbying? When this immigration was at its most intense and there was also a lot of e-mail, I read them, and there was nothing like it among them. Everyone was different. From it you could see that there was real concern for these people that what would happen to us. They were isolated messages. But now when you come to this sort of situation, where the greens have a finger in the game, begins this kind of mass mail and other lobbying, starting to disturb the parliamentary work. This is absolutely certain that this will happen every time in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u229	Mr President! It is nice to note that the role and importance of Metsähallitus has been so well highlighted, because it is indeed an important issue, and I hope that these will be remembered after the adoption of this law. The sales of central government countries have been discussed more extensively as a whole, but Metsähallitus has a company called Quality Land, which manages this small-scale sales and arrangement of central government countries. It is important to remember that it is small-scale, and it is good to be there, but really nothing bigger has been and is not meant to come, and it has made provision that areas of more than 100 hectares should not be sold forward either. This Metsähallitus law: although we are now adopting the whole, it does not mean that we are adopting all Metsähallitus' actions in practice, but now that we are doing this law and adopting this, we have tried to build such a good framework that will enable us to take this practical action forward. It is important that we now give the field some peace, that we get to do these practical things forward in these circles. Let me just say that every time we have talked about our territory, that those gentlemen of the government, it has indeed meant the lords of Metsähallitus who have been at times, whatever they have been, but we will deal with those matters after we begin to put this into practice. The whole thing is now in place, and now we're going to start putting this into action.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u230	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Lagen om Forststyrelsen, som riksdagen nu behandlar, handlar faktiskt inte enbart om Forststyrelsens omorganisering. Den handlar också om på vilket sätt samerna på sitt hembygdsområde ska höras och kunna vara delaktiga i beslutsfattandet kring de marker som har väsentlig betydelse för samernas kultur och näringar. Låt mig nu också reserve mycket tydlig. Frågan om förbättrande av samernas ställning som Europas enda ursprungsfolk var mycket aktuell under den förra regeringsperioden. Vi kom ju faktiskt så långt att vi hade en av regeringen Stubb enhälligt godkänd proposition till en ny velvetingslag samt till Ratificeringen av ILO169-conventionenomursprungsfolkensrättigheter. Tyvär höll inte regeringsleden i fjol den rai tiden utan de större partierna lät andra intressen gå förbi det gemensenemt överiskomna, med den påföljd att velvetingslagen drogs tillbaka. Men ILO169 ConventionenochdendärtillanslutnaändringenavtvåparagrafferiForststyrelselagenhannodkännasavriksdageniförstabehandling. Sedan blev den vilande över luet och är så att säga fortfarande anhängig. Nu har vi alltså en situation där riksdagen tidigare har sagt and till de TVå paragrafer i Forststyrelselagen som den nuvarande regeringen har plockat bort från det förslag som nu behandlas. Synnerligen anmärkningsvärt är att grundlagsutskottet i sitt färska betankande klart har låttit påskina att paragraferna borde plockas in tillbaka.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u231	Mr President! At this point in the debate, I would just like to say quite briefly that the discussion between the Government and Parliament, including the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, has taken place in a situation where, let us say, there has been a reasonable margin of manoeuvre. It has a very skilfully navigated solution that will as little as possible change Metsähallitus' current way of working. I believe that this is something that I hope will be appreciated, and I believe that at some point it will also be appreciated. This is a very complex issue, and I am well aware that not all citizens who have made contact with it can possibly be aware of all these issues. I would therefore like to thank Yle publicly for having an article on the website entitled "This controversial forest government law is about – seven answers to what would change". This is an excellent article, and I recommend that everyone read it. It contains an objective assessment of what is at stake here. It is, in itself, a pity that not everyone has understood what this is all about. Of course, I feel that some of those who are well involved may not have wanted to understand, but that is perhaps their own business. But, finally, I would also like to thank the committee for making a straightforward decision on the direct establishment of this company. Rovaniemi was selected because the majority of Metsähallitus countries are located in the Lapland area.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u232	Madam President! At the previous stage of this debate, I did not consider it absolutely necessary to go through the amendments I tabled in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on the points of the law, but it was the case that Mr Kärnä came forward in his own speech that these amendments were not legal and asked me to go through them again. Yes, I did, and for the sake of clarity, let them be used through here as well. I hope that Mr Kärnä's fellow party will then be able to give reasons for any legal problems here. My first amendment concerns the public administration tasks of Metsähallitus in Article 5. The existing Law on Forest Management, which has already been repealed, but thus in the previous Law, provides for public administration to be entrusted with the tasks laid down in the Law on the Right to General Waters. They have been omitted from the new bill. However, it is the view of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, among others, in its recent opinion, that there are quite a few social interests in public waters, such as professional fishing, aquaculture, wind power, gravel extraction and also nature conservation. On the basis of the above arguments, the tasks provided for in the Law on the Right to General Waters should also have been included in the new Metsähallitus Act's public administration tasks, and this is what I put forward. In Section 9, regarding the steering powers of the Ministry, Metsähallitus was entirely under the direction of the Ministry of the Environment in the previous Metsähallitus Act. The EU has not called for any change to this. Representatives of the government parties have called for this change. I proposed that this should be the subject of Article 9 of the An addition would have been made to show that the Ministry of the Environment directs Metsähallitus in nature conservation matters and in the field of public administration tasks in its field of activity. In Section 10 on Metsähallitus' organisation, the explanatory statement is as follows: Metsähallitus is a state-owned company that uses, manages and protects controlled state land and water assets. The decision on the other units and functions of Metsähallitus should therefore be made by decree of the Government, and they cannot only be imposed by the Metsähallitus Rules of Procedure, which are decided by Metsähallitus' own government. I proposed that Article 10 of the Law should: is maintained in accordance with the Government's own proposal. In Section 11, regarding Metsähallitus' Government, I also made a proposal because Metsähallitus's composition is emphasised in its diverse role, because in the future Metsähallitus' Government will, among other things, strengthen regional natural resource plans that coordinate different interests. That is why I proposed to add to this section 11 of the Act to ensure the expertise of nature conservation and recreational use in the appointment of the Metsähallitus Government. Article 25 concerning the making of balance sheet transfers between different balance sheets. I proposed that an addition be made to section 25, which demonstrates the decision-making power over the balance sheet transfers of water and land assets in full to Parliament. Article 26, which also applies to these balance sheet transfers and in particular to the new third balance sheet to be established. I asked a number of interested parties in the committee's expert hearings whether it would not be logical, on the basis of the arguments put forward in the Government's bill, that all these areas, which are not justified in making a special claim for profits but which are also not statutory nature reserves or national parks, should then be included in the third balance sheet, and I received an answer from officials who prepared the Ministry's law that, yes, this could be done. But for political reasons, this has not been sought from the government groups. That is why I considered this third balance sheet to be a little vague, and I do not think that this kind of thing meets the hallmarks of good law if the justification of the bill is not logical as to what is proposed in the articles. Because the third balance sheet did not seem logical and no one could answer the question as to why, I suggested that the whole third balance sheet item should not be established but that the balance sheet should be kept unchanged. Finally, in Paragraph 39, I tabled the amendments which Mr Henriksson here rightly and in detail presented in relation to the ban on the weakening of the Sámi culture. Mrs Maijala, in her speech here earlier, suggested that this ban clause would in practice be exactly the same as what is now written in the draft law. The question arises as to why this clause could not be approved and supported by the government groups. It is always up to the will of the majority to safeguard the culture of a minority, whatever culture it is. Consider, for example, the domestic agricultural culture and the entire industry that all Finns, I believe, want to preserve, even though it is practiced by only a small minority, about 4 per cent of Finns. Sámi culture and Sámi natural livelihoods are practiced by an even smaller minority. It is strange not to want strong protection for it, even though the corresponding ban clauses on the weakening of the Sámi culture have already been enshrined in many other specific laws, as Mr Henriksson has pointed out. Mr President! I would like once again to state the fact that we representatives of the majority of the population, as I see myself as, although there are Sami ancestors and mothers in my family in the north-east of Lapland, as in almost every other Lapland family, we can make our voices heard through various channels. The Sámi of our indigenous people living in Finland as a minority, they do not enjoy this right.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u233	Mr President! Three more things to conclude. This is the Sami issue that has been discussed and, as has been said above, this Metsähallitus Act does not weaken the Sami cause at all. The Sámi culture is also very secure in Sámi districts, and I believe that there is no one in this Chamber who would want to undermine the Sámi cause or Sámi culture in Finland. And I would also like to point out that during the last parliamentary term, we Lapland representatives in the common front each year fought for funding for language nests, that we received 400,000 funding for language nests — when it was about to be calculated. Now, in this economic situation, this government has provided funding for 700,000 language nests. I think that this should be quoted if we take the floor that this government somehow does not want to consider the question of the Sámi to be valuable. That is not true. Then there are a few other questions. There has been reference here to those public administrative tasks, and I do have a very strong impression, even after the discussion of the Constitutional Committee, that not all the tasks which are covered by this Metsähallitus Act at section level under the heading where public administrative tasks are mentioned are actually public administrative tasks within the meaning of Article 124 of the Constitution. It includes other types of tasks than those involving the exercise of public authority. And this is a good point to note, even though the wording in the section is that way. I am not going to question it now, but I would just like to say that not all the tasks, for example, relating to the export of wood to national parks and so on, are actually being used by the public authorities, and that is something to remember when reading this law. Then one question that is here as it is ignored is how Metsähallitus acts as a whole, and has become such a picture that is a hugely important issue for these balance sheet items, where the mic is located. Of course, it does matter from the point of view of this return, but I would like to emphasise that Metsähallitus is, however, a special state-owned company, which must, in principle, act as a single organisation in these public administration tasks, even from the point of view of management. I believe that this also means that we as parliamentarians should, in principle, be confident that all the objectives that we set, including results and sustainable action, will be taken care of and committed to by the entire Metsähallitus administration. At least I'm not putting this under suspicion. That is how it should work and that is how it should work. And that's why I think it's a secondary question then, is there any property inside its organization in which balance sheet item? The most important thing is that we can direct from here and we have set our own result target and revenue for it. It also defines the amounts of these fellings. Finally, I would like to raise one more question, which relates to this objective of return, and it is related to the fact that Lapland is currently going through a very strong phase of tourism growth. We have a strong increase in the number of foreign tourists. We have a great deal of billboards and investment plans for tourism. It may be said that when the number of Russian tourists collapsed, the number of Asian tourists has replaced it, and according to the latest information I have received, the number of Chinese has already exceeded the number of Japanese, which means that this Asian boom is very strong. Now the question is that we have many tourist centres where Metsähallitus is practically the only landowner. And then it will be asked, perhaps, what is the demand for income and the fair price that will be imposed on the country: is it better to think about this question from here too, not about forestry, but about this land lease, that we, as representatives of the landowners here in Parliament, should be satisfied with a slightly lower fair value in terms of value for the country and a slightly lower level of return, and rather, in a way, we should look for a return in order to support the tourism industry and the investments that would arise there? The problem is that when the land price has been high and the legislation has applied for a 6% return, the rent level will rise to such a high level that investment will not be dared to go. And in this situation, when there's demand, it's a shame. This is a separate issue, but I am sure we will have to consider this together: we would rather support the development of tourism with reasonable rents than try to make a profit for the state through rents. The tourism sector is not a hugely profitable industry, based on indicators, but it is a hugely employment-intensive sector, and that is how we benefit from this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u234	Mr President! It is all right that Mr Salmon says that no one in this Chamber wants the rights of the Saami to be violated and undermined. But if this is really the case, then I have no idea why the same articles in the Metsähallitus Act that are already in the Water Act, the Mining Act and the Environmental Protection Act, which state that the status of the Sámi and the status of the Sámi traditional industries must not be undermined in the activities of Metsähallitus either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-16-ps-25.u235	Madam Speaker! In this debate, in a multigenerational debate, one thing has to be said. There have been very theoretical levels of threats here and what is supposed to be written between the lines, which is simply not true. I therefore hope that, when this debate is held and public debate is held, these issues will be left to a lesser extent, that the uncertainty that has now taken place in this debate before the parliamentary debate on this law and after the report has been finalised will not be fomented. It's not in anyone's interest. Let us stick to what we have written, what the report says, what the legal provisions show, and not go further on these matters. Nobody wants to, as Mr Hassi has rightly said here, that the rights of the Saami are being undermined. On the contrary, some improvements have been made here. No one wants the peace of the forest to be shaken. Nobody wants it to be possible or not to work as well as it is now done by Metsähallitus, but to be included in this report, in the text of the report, in the state of will that a clear majority of the committee has wanted to demonstrate. It's how you live, how you act. All of this controls the entire Metsähallitus, both the mother, all its subsidiaries, all its balance sheet items and all its activities. This is the key message that I want to underline and hope that this will be the case for all of us, for whom, at the end. Finally, I would like to thank you: this has been a very good debate. This was certainly not a bad report or opinion in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the contrary. Although time was limited, even though the timetable was tight, we were nevertheless able to go through thoroughly both with the experts and also with each other and with the various committees, speaking in turn on this bill. This is also the result of the turning measures against the government proposal — the final proposal produced by the committee. This is the result of good cooperation, thanks to all parties.
