ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. On 22 November 2016, the Council of Presidents proposed that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 22 November 2016. In the debate, Timo Harakka, supported by Touko Aalto, has, contrary to the proposal of the Council of Presidents, proposed that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u2	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 22 November 2016. In the debate, Anneli Kiljunen, supported by Ilkka Kantola, has tabled an objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u3	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u4	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 22 November 2016. In the debate, Sari Tanus Anneli Kiljunen has proposed that the legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u5	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 22 November 2016. In the debate, Sari Tanus Anneli Kiljunen has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u6	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 22 November 2016. In the debate, Sari Tanus Anneli Kiljunen has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u7	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 22/2016 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u13	Mr President! We had a few sad votes here in the Chamber just now. We have just voted, among other things, on the cuts in national pensions — the cuts in national pensions — and we know that as a result, the purchasing power of the majority of pensioners, low and medium-income pensioners, will fall next year. The government has always been very generous in making these cuts and has always justified them by the fact that we are forced to cut, to take the weaker in order to control debt. It is noteworthy that in this amending budget, however, the government is taking on more debt. The debt, which is now taken, is worth nearly 6 billion. It is totally contrary to the principles that the government has given us to believe that it is necessary to cut down, a small person, a small Finn, to compromise, so that we can make the debt fold. This is not going to happen. We're taking more debt. Where the money goes, we have often asked. When we saw this government’s budget and tax proposals, we found that yes, that money goes there for tax reductions for the well - off. The government can afford to reduce the taxes on millions of inheritances these days, to reduce forest gifts, to make so-called pharmacy deductions that benefit the most well-off entrepreneurs, and this is where the money goes. That's why you take a debt that you have enough for a guy to share with, a good-for-nothing guy. President! This is worrying not only from the point of view of fairness but also because at the same time employment measures are lacking in government proposals. We have just heard that, once again, we have in our hands an amending budget which is mainly technical. Can we afford to make technical amending budgets one after the other without employment measures and, at the same time, get into a situation where we are not getting enough growth? Perhaps next spring, as the Social Democrats have often warned, we will be in a situation where the government will even make further cuts. It has been feared here that if we do not control the economy and create jobs, there will be further cuts. And if the government says that it would not be desirable to do so, then it would not be worth making these technical supplementary budgets, but rather making supplementary budgets with more employment measures that will have an impact here and now — right away. This is a very important issue. We have underlined this on several occasions as Social Democrats. At the same time that these cuts I have mentioned are being made, it also affects people’s purchasing power. This also means that the economic spiral is negative. And I cannot understand why these choices of values today are like this. Or I can understand: this is a cold right-wing economic policy, to which both the centre and the Finns are bowing, and which they often praise and praise here in the Chamber. Here we are, we have seen this, but nevertheless we will not stop fighting. We Social Democrats have also made two statements in this amending budget. One is about a fairer economic policy, and the other is about employment measures and their implementation right now, here and now. On the basis of these, I hope we will have a debate. We have also had good news recently, President. After all, some of its bad decisions have been withdrawn by the government and it has, of course, been very good. It is pleasing that, for example, we saw that the Social Democrats' alternative budget was only valid for a couple of weeks when the government took a catch and began to respect it in part, that is to say, canceling this nurseship. It was a very positive decision. Unfortunately, even in yesterday's debate, we discovered that the government still wants to cut 70 million from the elderly, which is wrong. It's not right. The elderly deserve good and high-quality care and care, and I hope that these savings will be considered. So, the government, please. Government parties, listen to me. Take employment action here and now so that we do not have to cut off the weaker and get jobs for people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u14	Let us take a few speeches, and then we will go to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u15	Mr President! Thank you for the tips on employment, although it can be said that when the Sdp Minister dealt with employment issues during the last term of the government, 113438 more unemployed people were created. Now, after one year of effort, the number of unemployed people is 21,000 lower, but of course all tips will be received. This reduction in unemployment is already reflected in the fact that we were able to increase the accrual of taxes on earned income and capital income taxes, as well as the collection of corporation, value added and transfer taxes. The much maligned measures will increase employment and livelihood, economic growth for the years to come. For example, the reduction in forest gifts will result in more tax revenue in the following years than it has now been. I hope you will be honest about this when this happens, because every time we get the wheels running, there will be economic growth. It is a fact that there are not many forest shops in service homes, nor are they made by heirs who are contentious. That is why it is very good that we dare to make such bold openings. It is a fact that we are going to have to put the state finances in order, and in the future we are also going to see this deleveraging process. Of course, it cannot be done in one year; it must be done in a long-term way and, of course, it must be done ahead of growth and jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u16	I will give the floor to the representatives of Heinäluoma and Heinonen and then to the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u17	Mr President! I must say that Mr Viitanen did speak the truth. This government has systematically refused to take responsibility for employment in its own actions, blindly relying on market forces, and if it has any thinking of its own, then it is a weakening of working conditions, which is being tried time and again on different sides and in different terms. Then, as Mr Viitanen quite rightly said, they are waiting for these additional cuts. The additional cuts are waiting, as Mr Orpo has said, and Mr Stubb also said before him that they are around the corner. What's the angle? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, what is the angle behind which they are? This corner is the municipal election. The Government has made an amazing decision — evidently blessed by the parliamentary groups of the government parties — that the spending limits debate and these surgical decisions should be postponed until after the municipal elections. Anyone who has listened to these speeches will understand what this is all about. People are not to be told that there are concrete new cuts ahead due to the failure of the government's employment policy. There they are now waiting, and then the citizens are kept in the dark until the municipal elections, so that no one will judge the success and fairness of government policy when deciding on the vote. But I doubt that people will submit to what they are trying to do: try to keep the new cuts ahead of the elections. Minister Orpo has said here many times in public that they will come if the economic figures do not show better. Economic figures do not show any better on the revenue side, as there is no investment in employment. [Second Vice-President Arthur Satonen : Representative Heinonen. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u22	Mr President! Representative Viitanen said that they are now fighting for this. You, Mr Viitanen, have just fought for four years as a responsible economic policy party, as a finance minister's party.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u29	We now have 1 minute of replies and they will begin by Mrs Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u30	Mr President! It is indeed as Mr Viitanen said that it was well known that what was said about the opposition had an impact, but that the government has so quickly started to implement the alternative budget for the SDP: the manoeuvring and then, lastly, the withdrawal of the war veterans. Mr President! After all, this is a mega-class matter if the government is to keep the cuts from the citizens before the municipal elections. I suspect that this is about Prime Minister Sipilä promising that all difficult decisions will now be over. We have been saying here all the time, unlike Mr Kalmari here, that these government tax cuts, which affect the most high-income pharmacies in our country, including the richest ones, such as the Council for the Evaluation of Legislation and the Council for the Evaluation of Economic Policy, have said that they have no employment impact.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u31	Mr President! This shows the entrepreneurship of the SDP. I find it quite embarrassing that chocolate discs were circumvented to talk to companies about how the SDP understands that jobs are created in small and medium-sized enterprises — where they are actually created — and when small and medium-sized enterprises are met so that they can employ more in the future, make a haircut and a car repair allowance, then the SDP is against it by all means possible. You can stop talking about understanding companies and their plight.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u32	Mr President! It's kind of a strange policy sometimes, isn't it? The representative of the Prime Minister Party of the previous government is now in the toilet and is trying to shift responsibility for the government's failures under your leadership to the shoulders of other parties. In addition to this, the government is now trying to take credit for the increase in the volume of construction in the construction sector, for example, which is reflected in employment statistics, but if you look at these employment figures, what do they say about the effectiveness or success of the government's employment policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u35	Mr President! Yes, I must marvel at this parliamentary debate. Those parties that are now presenting an increase in indebtedness for this year would be in debt more than ever in Finland in recent years, but even harshly in the amending budget they are taking on more debt at the same time around the field saying that this debt is now being put to an end. I think it's a very two-faced thing to do. And the same parties are coming here to tell us that the opposition's option is worse when we are less indebted. In no way can I understand that if we want to involve everyone and 95% of Finnish employees and pensioners could win in this socialist option, then why do you have to go into debt more and more? Because you only serve the few. In that respect, I am disappointed. I am particularly disappointed that employment policy does not seem to be managed by anyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u36	Mr. Speaker! Indeed, during the last parliamentary term, the Social Democrats were the holders of the portfolio of the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Labour. The result was that the central government and the public sector, including municipalities, were in debt of more than EUR 30 billion. At present, municipalities are not in debt and the state is in debt about EUR 6 billion, of which EUR 1 billion is due to immigration. In addition, in the last parliamentary term, taxation increased, the number of unemployed people increased by more than 100,000 and GDP fell in three years. The situation is now clearly reversed, and this amending budget, among other things, states that the biggest increases will be made in tax revenue estimates, i.e. a reversal has taken place: tax revenues will increase, debt will slow down when public debt is taken into account, and investment has started. Things have changed. I understand that the Social Democrats are ashamed of the last parliamentary term when they did not do what they are now demanding.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u37	Mr President! I find it repugnant how the people of the United States beat the previous prime ministers, the prime ministers of their own party. Good luck to Jyrki Katainen and Alexander Stubb. I find it just as repugnant that Mr Kalmari here is killing the Social Democrats for the poor management of employment. It is clear that the employment statistics for the last period are disappointing for everyone, but it is worth remembering that we have had a Socialist Minister for Labour, who will probably hold a record of how many people have been employed during one parliamentary term, and he is otherwise sitting in this Chamber at the moment. At least, after Minister Filatov, I do not know anyone who has succeeded in improving employment as vigorously as once. I hope, and we all hope, for every new job. The unfortunate thing is that the number of long-term unemployed has increased
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u38	Mr President! There is indeed both good news and bad news, and in this debate on the amending budget, we should speed up the things that will bring about this positive cycle. With the call for this mid-summer review of spring, it is still a long time to work until then, and this positive cycle, which has clearly begun now, must continue. After all, the employment rate is now projected to rise to 68.5%, while the trend of the unemployment rate is turning to a slight decline and GDP is also projected to increase by 1.1%. I feel that these advances are being underestimated here. The measures taken by the government are also being underestimated. It is claimed that nothing has been done, and in the area of the competitiveness pact, among other things, it seems that, in the past, everyone in this Chamber has considered it positive,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u39	Mr President! The share of the long-term unemployed among all unemployed has never been as high in Finland as it is now, more than 35 per cent, and it is forecast to continue to grow in the coming years. According to the forecast, there are 125,000 long-term unemployed this year, or 16,000 more than last year. This is not opposition propaganda, it is directly from the forecasts of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. I find the sad side to be that the government promised more action to combat long-term unemployment in the context of the last framework, the government promised them in the context of the budget, the government promised that this autumn we would get more action, those that were not prepared in the budget debate, but we did not get them to do so. We have a technical amending budget which does not bring any relief to the fight against long-term unemployment. It is worth remembering that the recession has a long shadow, and that is the long-term unemployment that will eventually become the most expensive, and the government will neglect its management.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u40	Mr President! The Christian Democratic Group of the European People's Party has certainly put forward its own options, but at the same time has supported the government in several of its economic policy choices.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u44	Mr. Speaker! In order to achieve a better economic and employment policy, both this and all previous and future governments must constantly create better conditions. Well, this government has carried out structural reforms — regional government, social welfare reform —
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u47	Mr President! Instead of paying attention to the small signs of economic recovery and the improvement of the employment situation — the government itself has nothing to do with their achievement — the basic bourgeois government and its representatives could honestly draw attention to the fact that their political objectives have progressed, have progressed in such a way that the infrastructure of the welfare state is being put at risk. It's about the war, the forced-on, and so on. It has to do with the pain in the sense that they have been able to chastise, humiliate the employee movement through extortion. It relates to tax solutions that have been able to defend the interests of property and large incomes. It has to do with the fact that the unemployed and those in need have been the most disciplined in relative terms. These are political objectives. In this respect, the basic bourgeois government has made progress, if you would say so, with roosters, but with regard to the economy and employment —
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u48	Mr President! Mr Heinonen has, however, earned the right to have cold water on his neck here. In fact, I find it completely immoral to present things in the light of the fact that the policy of the previous government is the fault of the socialists. Decisions are made by the Board of Directors in accordance with the Government Programme, Heinonen knows that and should not be fooled by people, citizens, with such speeches. Thank you, Congressman Heinäluoma, for this name Twitter government. I have spoken in the past about the possibility of being named the Guinness Government, which allows you to enter So, the Guinness book by the amount of promises that have been betrayed. Is it also a reverse government? It can also be entered in the Guinness book, But I hope for such fair talk, fair play here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u49	All right, let's stick to this time of answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u50	Mr President! During the last term of government, the Minister of Finance was at the end of the socialists, Antti Rinne, now Petteri Orpo of the Coalition Party. That is what I said in my own speech, and I said that the actions of the last regime were not such as to turn the economy around. If the economic solutions that were made then had been so good that our economy had started to grow, there would have been no need to make those cuts again during this reign. But they were needed, and fortunately, as we have seen here, the economy has slightly turned to growth. That's not what we saw last season. But I am surprised that, for example, the chairman of the Social Democrats criticised the fact that decisions are being taken in the light of the needs of the customers. I think it's great that we're getting closer to things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u53	Mr President! It is true, and it must also be admitted that value choices are being made here, and this government has a cold ride for the poor and a market-based economic policy in the United States. That's where we're going. As a result, we have made brutal cuts. Last time today, the government presented and the parliamentary government parties voted for a national pension index cut. President! What I think is important today, as Mr Heinäluoma has pointed out here, is now the threat of further cuts around the corner of the municipal elections and the government wants to keep the people from doing more of these brutal cuts until after the municipal elections. That should not be accepted. I want the government parties now to take a position on this matter, which has become apparent in this Chamber, because it is also so, and none of you can deny that, unfortunately, both:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u54	Honorable Speaker! Yes, I would like to inform Mr Viitanen and the partners that, when the mid-term framework is established, it will be done in such a way as to support growth, to support investment, to support employment, and, above all, to have decisions that support regional vitality. It is the lifeblood of Finland. Finland is a country so widely divided that we need to support the regions. And then, as far as this debt is concerned again, what was in this additional budget and what has been asked, there will be an additional 317 million in debt here, but it is mainly due to the fact that dividend and sales income will be amortised next year, and this dividend and sales revenue would have been almost 800 million. - So here we are.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u55	Mr President! With such a good midterm review coming, you would imagine that it would be worth taking before the municipal elections. Small and medium-sized enterprises have been mentioned here. I am sure we all agree that new jobs will be created there, but when it is clearly indicated by the number of the parliamentary information service that this entrepreneurship reduction by the government will not bring jobs. It will generate more income for the two largest entrepreneurial income deciles.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u56	Mr President! I do wonder very much about the attitude of the Social Democrats and the opposition in general on this issue. The only real way forward is really to get more jobs in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u57	Mr President! There are currently 360,000 unemployed in this country, including laid-off workers. Unfortunately, I did not find how many people are currently undergoing labour market training. Instead, I found 76,000 job vacancies. Would it not now be time for this government to work to find an employee for these 76,000 jobs? These sleeping chairs and interrogations of Leelia every three months could leave out and genuinely start doing the work that is due to the Ministry of Employment and Employment, that is to say, caring about the work. As far as these pasts and current causes are concerned, during this government, some 40,000 people have started labour market training. It is 10,000 fewer than during the previous government, 10,000 fewer than during the previous government. I think it's time to train people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u58	Mr President! Mr Gustafsson announced that during the last term the Social Democrats were a support party, an aid party. Well, that's a position for them too, but the results were really bad. The 113,000 new unemployed who are now becoming long-term unemployed were born. They are the result of your work, which was a complete failure. Thanks to you, however, corporate tax was drastically reduced in historical terms. It became a dividend party, and much of it went to the American pension funds for this leak. Now the entrepreneurial deduction remains 100 per cent in Finland. It has a positive impact on employment and is fair. Admit the facts, and do not distort them. In your time, we also missed all the reforms, the social and labour and business reforms,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u59	Mr President! If medals were awarded here on the basis of which government debt has increased most and the number of unemployed has risen most rapidly and has been crushed, it was when Mr Kankaanniemi was Minister Kankaanniemi. Absolutely superior, no one guilty here has been able to do that. But I do not want this history writing to go any further, but I will say that if you believe in your budget line and in your supplementary budget line, then I will ask very sincerely why you are moving to the spending limits line after the municipal elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u64	I would like to give the following answers to the honourable Members, Mr Andersson, Mr Lindtman and Mr Kalli, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u65	Mr President! I was worried when I listened to Mr Vähämäki's fine words about what is being pursued in this mid-term debate, because until now the government has been saying that it wants to promote entrepreneurship, wants to support economic growth and create jobs. But what are the decisions that you have made? Once you have decided to cut basic security, cut unemployment, cut national pensions, cut low income families with children, from education, it is expected that the same line will continue next spring. The best proof of this is that the government decided to move this over the municipal elections. Mr President! If something is irresponsible of the economy, it is that the government has allowed long-term unemployment to grow and develop so that we currently have almost as many long-term unemployed as during the recession of the 1990s. And we know that unemployment has been prolonged at all levels of education,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u66	Mr President! The turnaround in employment we are talking about: Last time a bigger turn took place in a short period of time, it happened in the summer of last year during the economic policy of the previous government, when the building boom started. What is being celebrated here is precisely the turning point that has taken place during the budget of Finance Minister Rinte.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u69	Mr President! I think there are two things worth keeping in mind now: life is after spring and spending limits, and the world is in a very delicate situation for a number of different reasons. Therefore, it is not worth overdoing that there are going to be some additional cuts. At least I do not know — on the contrary, the government parties assume that the cuts have been made. But I would also like to warn you that spring will not bring any manna. After all, we are in a similar situation, and the government has to prioritise and think very carefully about what the injections are targeting, but it is of no great importance. So each of us will find that time is passing rather quickly and frameworks are frameworks, and therefore this predictability and reliability must be managed in such a way that the decisions that have been made are now completed,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u70	Mr President! There is no need to go to archaeology here, but during the last parliamentary term there really was a long way to go. Taxation was tightened, but it was not possible to reform — which is what our pensioners' fishing fee must have left.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u75	Mr President! I draw my attention to the objection to this report, which has been made by the Greens, the Left Alliance and the RKP. I would like to say that I am very much in favour of strengthening the quota refugee system and also of increasing the quota for refugees. But I think there are two problems with this proposal. Firstly, an amending budget for such a proposal is unfortunately the wrong place. The selection of quota refugees and the whole process takes a lot of time. It is quite impossible to think that quota refugees will be able to get more out of this as it were at the end of the year and pass the process. A more appropriate place would be a supplementary budget proposal or a state budget proposal for the following year. Secondly, it is proposed to increase this quota of refugees from 750 to 2500, which is a huge leap. Personally, I believe more in moderate growth, for example, to the 1050 that was done during the last parliamentary term, because in order for a quota refugee to get that place in Finland at all, he needs a municipality. Quota refugees do not come to reception centres but directly to municipalities. We are still having serious difficulties finding municipal places for refugees, such as those who have been granted refugee status. There's a good point in this presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u76	President! I fully agree with Mr Kalli. Individual economic decisions, or spending limits decisions, may not have such dynamic effects, but I believe that more has an impact on the climate of confidence and investment in our society. If there is a good view here that we are going to have growth, good, stable conditions, then we will also start investing, and that, if anything, will increase growth. So I repeat again and again what I said in that debate: this mid-term framework must be growth-friendly, investment-friendly, employment-friendly, and take account of regional vitality. I would like to raise a few more points about this additional budget. This is an increase of 35 million in the conditions under which agriculture operates. I think this is a very good path, and then, first of all, when you see that the supplementary draft budget also provides 10 million for farms that have invested, this is an indication of the policy that this government is taking: to provide support for farms which, in this difficult situation, have experienced financial difficulties, so that production can continue. Then again, if we look briefly at this government debt. [Second Vice-President, Arto Satonen : Come on, come on. Come on. Let's go. (Speaker moved to speaking rooster)
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u79	Mr President! First of all, this Twitter account board. This question must be asked over and over again from now on: what is behind the mid-term review and the painful and politically difficult decisions it brings with it being passed over the municipal elections? This conversation must continue. Then there are the positive, small signs that are welcome. In Western Finland, among other things, they are very important, they raise moods, and they also have a tangible impact, especially in the region, in companies, but also nationally. But the question of the reason for the government’s efforts to produce these positive signs must be thrown into the air. When talking about the new spectacular view of the New Town Car Factory, I listened and watched the morning TV when the Director of Personnel told me about this positive development. He was asked what was behind this. He did not mention a word about such things as refraining from wage increases, reducing wage levels, extending working hours and so on. He said that the most important things are good products, high skills, motivated and professional staff. These are the factors, and in the long term, these factors are weakened by government cuts in education, skills and research, for example. As far as Mr Räsänen's criticism of this proposal to increase our quota of refugees is concerned, it must of course be acknowledged that such scheduled challenges exist. There is also an initiative for action here, which means that this motion for an amendment to the amending budget is not the only act of parliament to promote this issue. In the same way, of course, we can question our proposal to tackle long-term unemployment: what can now be done with a new amending budget to reduce long-term unemployment in this situation? But when the government has not dealt with these problems with the first amending budget, with the second amending budget and with this year's actual budget and not with next year's budget and with the addition of next year's budget, then we in the opposition must make noise about, among other things, this situation of long-term unemployment. This is definitely the biggest problem, and fortunately the government, in its general explanatory statement, also recognises that long-term unemployment continues to grow. The increase in long-term unemployment is a very big problem, it causes economic problems, it causes human distress, it causes exclusion, it causes a weakening of the knowledge base, it causes growing social costs and so on. As Mr Andersson said here, the long-term unemployment of young people is increasing. What does that mean for the future of our workforce, when young people, although educated, lose their prospects and their attachment to working life once and for all? It is a huge loss — it is a human tragedy, but it is also a national economic and labour-policy loss. It is therefore necessary to seek further action on long-term unemployment and the government must tackle long-term unemployment with concrete measures and not just in formal speeches. On this basis, Mr President, I would like to suggest that Parliament accepts the statement relating to protest 3, and I will now read it in the minutes here: 'The Parliament requires that the government stop its policies leading to an increase in passive and long-term unemployment and immediately bring to the attention of Parliament an amending budget containing adequate additional measures to improve labour market policy and, in particular, to reduce long-term unemployment.'
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u80	Mr President! I would also like to continue with this problem of long-term unemployment, because it is a burden that we will bear for a long time in the future. It is human suffering, but it is, above all, an economic issue and how our workforce will be sufficient in the future once we have jobs. I believe that everyone is happy about every job in this Chamber, everyone is happy about every job that comes into this country. Some of them are changes in the international situation, some are changes made during the previous term of government, and some certainly have the effect of what the Competitiveness Pact will bring when it comes, because it has brought a certain type of belief in the future. But when long-term unemployment cannot be affected by the creation of jobs in this country, but by helping unemployed people to find employment in the jobs they create in this country, my main concern is what the government is doing for the protection of the skills that have been long-term unemployed. If we look at this, first of all, the support for adult education has been weakened for those who are working. Well, fortunately, it was saved in the competitiveness pact in such a way that it was not completely destroyed. But in addition to this, for example, the volume of labour policy training — which, in all the hearings of the committee, is made one of the most effective employment policy instruments — has been cut by the fact that, when we had Minister Ihalainen on his post office, there were 22,000 people in this country who were able to train through labour market policy training, now less than 10,000. And here I think we are faced with a lack of skills and a displacement tool that will leave people there for a long time in unemployment. Another problem that long-term unemployment involves is what happens to our young people. Finland has long been such a country that we have not had long-term unemployed young people at all, because we have had a catch from that group,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u81	Mr President! These immigration-related costs here are now revised to 800 million, especially in terms of asylum seekers and its totality, and there is an increase of 38 million still for this year. I am a little surprised, however, that this situation has changed a lot and the number of people coming is constantly decreasing. I was wondering if this need was real. Then one small observation: almost 70 million of the increase in fines was to be collected, and now that initiative has not progressed in committee. As this text now proves in this amending budget, this increase in fines has been motivated only by the state’s financial situation. It is a completely unacceptable basis for increasing the penalties for monetary reasons. I hope that, in future, when these proposals are made, account will be taken of the fact that it is not advisable to legislate on such laws, which are quite impossible at the outset.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u82	Mr President! Many good speeches have been made here on the growth of long-term unemployment and its problem, both from a human perspective and from the point of view of the sustainability of the national economy as a whole. Indeed, long-term unemployment is increasing. The number of people outside the labour force is also increasing, and unemployment periods, especially among young people, have increased over the past year. When you look at the way the government responds to this deteriorating situation and what government measures have been in terms of labour market policy, it does seem very weak. The resources for wage support have been insufficient throughout this period. Now the government is also proposing to limit the opportunities for organisations as regards the use of pay subsidies. It is known that the resources of the TE Centres are insufficient. In Sweden, there are as many unemployed as in Finland but six times as many people who work in labour market management. In practice, the Government has completely abolished the Youth Guarantee. Despite the fact that the previous period was not able to significantly reduce the youth unemployment rate through the Youth Guarantee, it had a significant impact on the fact that the unemployment periods for young people, as Mr Filatov has said here, remained very short at international level. In addition, the government has also made significant cuts in the income of the unemployed in terms of both earnings-related unemployment benefit and labour market support. There will also be significant cuts in vocational education and training, and in particular in adult education, next year, which will contribute to making it more difficult for adults to gain access to vocational training. That is why, Mr President, I support Mr Uotila's proposal for a statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u83	Mr President! First of all, Mr Pia Viitanen raised this question of the nursing dimension, and I think it is a great thing that it was decided to do just this way. It was the right thing to do and the right thing to do, that the size of the 0.5 is not going to go down. As far as asylum seekers are concerned, as has just been mentioned here, this additional budget is indeed an increase of EUR 38 million. These costs of immigration have been estimated to be higher than those of the previous normal amounts and amounts, and the reason for this is that there are people in reception centres waiting for decisions that have not been taken quickly enough. So I'm sure there's a need for that money. There will be an increase in the number of asylum seekers, and then we will have to try not only to decide whether they will stay here or what will happen to them, but also whether they will work and learn the language and so on, so that the resource will be allocated there. Job creation is one of the government's top projects and we have already made progress, and hopefully the situation will improve. It is true that jobs are not created by a magician's hat, but also by companies and operators who must create them and, in so doing, try to meet the challenge of jobs being needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u84	Mr President! Much has now been said about the government's contribution to private companies through tax breaks and this in turn employs people. Let's get real on this one. Sixty-five per cent of enterprises in this country, i.e. 65 per cent, well over half, are self-employed. There are a total of 160,000 of them in this country. According to calculations, about 20 percent of them are very low incomes. If we take low incomes as a limit to what is commonly used, that income is less than 60% of the income of all households per person, then there is a figure that the sole entrepreneur, such as the hairdresser, the cosmetologist, the seamsman, which has now been used here as examples, earns less than EUR 24,000 a year. And if a personal enterprise earns less than EUR 24,000 a year, because money cannot hire a single person — no, even if there is a tax relief, which now, according to these sums, we have, is less than EUR 500 a year per entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u87	Mr President! As far as the state economy is concerned, now that unemployment is being treated — as Mr Tolppanen has just done — there are no jobs. In the past it was possible to manage devaluations in such a way that even on the public side it was possible to do trick jobs. But now that we are in this common euro, in the global world, we are going to have to go a long way on their terms, and if we do not get that market economy right, then that employment will also stop. Among other things, Mr Tolppanen has said that there are 76,000 vacancies here. In reality, there are quite a lot more of them. Labour is applied for abroad, and these private companies, which are in central Finland, for example, are looking for other jobs, not at the employment office. Very few go there to look for that workforce — it is sought where it can be found. So there's a problem here, one that can't be said out loud, or it can't be said out loud, either one of them is there. No matter how much work we do, it's just that we can do it. Representative Tolppanen there said about the salaries of the MPs, whether it be a salary or whatever. 4000 euros if you can get a hold of it, it will not even be able to employ the minimum wage. In other words, the volume, when we really start to work, has to be pretty good. Then it must be the basis, as the government has gone on to make tax decisions and others, to get things right and...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u88	Mr President! Important things have been said here, but I would also like to remind you that there are currently over 65 million refugees in the world — 65 million people wandering around the world looking for a new home — and we in Finland are forced to shoulder our own responsibility for receiving refugees. There are pioneers, such as Canada, which has received nearly 30,000 Syrians since November 2015. The model could also be taken from other Nordic countries, such as Norway, which has significantly increased its quota and which has more than 3000 quotas this year. Sweden has announced that it will increase its refugee quota to 5,000 within two years, even though Sweden has received several times the number of asylum seekers compared to Finland. This is the reason why we Greens, together with the Left Alliance and the RKP, are proposing an objection to the fact that the third amending budget for 2016 allocates funds to increase the refugee quota from 750 to 2500 in Finland as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u89	Mr President! I would have said the old truth that if the statistics were misread, it would be a terrible thing. When it comes to jobs, it is worth remembering that some of the jobs open in the employment office there are for a few days. And when it comes to the number of unemployed and, for example, long-term unemployment, it is worth remembering that Statistics Finland's unemployment figures, for example, are largely missing those who have already given up long-term unemployment, those who no longer believe they will be employed. In fact, I think Mr Hakkarainen quite well described the fact that the labour force is also being fished out of other companies and that it is not believed to be found in the employment office there. If we are fishing for labour from one another, it will not improve our employment or make unemployment any easier.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u92	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities TyVM 9/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The debate begins: Mr Filatov, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u93	Mr President! A brief presentation of what is at stake. This is a change in the law on the protection of wages and salaries in the context of the competitiveness pact, and this relates to these survival agreements that have been created within the competitiveness pact, i.e. the situation when a company has difficulties in paying, for example, holiday money or wages on time, but the ability to make these payment dates and others slightly more flexible, can, as it were, secure the continuation and survival of its company. So far, our problem has been that if the employee does not get his wages in time and we have strict time-limits in the pay-guarantee legislation, when the guarantee can be met, if the employee then fails to receive wages at the end of the day, this is in a way incompatible with the flexibility of this competitiveness pact or with survival agreements. In fact, these legislative changes are needed for two reasons. Firstly, contracts for the transfer of a due date have not always been considered to be binding on the guarantee authorities, and this has caused harm to an employee who has wanted to be flexible because of the company's survival but then, in the event of a failure, has lost all his own remuneration. The second reason is that, without these necessary regulatory changes, the guarantee authority may consider these survival pacts to be an indication that the employee should have known that the company was in bad shape, and it is as if speculation that he has nevertheless continued to work in this company, and this has been the basis for the refusal of the guarantee. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities considers these proposals to be necessary and supported, and the Committee would like to draw attention to the fact that, in order to be able to finally obtain its guarantee, strict formal and fixed-term requirements are needed. As such, it can be agreed quite flexibly or informally on what will happen, but that agreement must be concluded in writing and at a certain time, so that it can then be verified when it is considered whether the worker has or does not have the right to guarantee wages. That is why the committee stresses that these demands for both the application and the granting of the guarantee and the forms in which agreements between the employer and the worker must be concluded must be effectively communicated to both employers and workers, in order to avoid situations in the future that would leave the worker out of the guarantee due to formal circumstances. The committee clarified the law amending Article 6 of the Grey Economic Clearing House Act. In the detailed explanatory memorandum, the committee notes that the introductory phrase of the amendment to the Law on the Grey Economic Clearing House and the proposed amendment to the Statute have failed to take account of Article 6 of that Act. A new paragraph 17 has been added to the law and this creates a need for change both in the introductory phrase of this law and in a number of other points. These changes were made by the committee, but otherwise this has been adopted unanimously by the committee in the form required by the Competitiveness Pact.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u94	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 21/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u95	Mr President! This amendment to the VAT law before us has received a great deal of praise from business associations, and I believe that the opposition has not found anything more important to say about it, at least in the course of the committee's deliberations. The Government's proposal and the law now in force will allow VAT to be paid in the smallest enterprises, i.e. companies making annual turnovers of up to EUR 500000. This will facilitate the cash management of these smallest companies and will also significantly reduce their working capital needs. I believe that it will significantly improve the prospects for further development of the smallest companies and may also facilitate the creation of new ones. Mr President! However, the Committee on Finance has made a few minor technical corrections to this very good legislative reform. One of these concerns Article 137, which has been specified during the committee procedure in such a way that the payment-based VAT account can also be used by an entrepreneur who is not obliged to draw up accounts in accordance with the Accounting Act. This is probably also the intention of the government, but the article has now been clarified in committee so that there is no room for interpretation. Similarly, after the technical correction of Article 143, such a trader has the possibility to allocate the deduction to the calendar month during which the purchase price or part of it has been paid. Mr President! The draft law containing these minor technical changes is very much to be welcomed and I thank the government for bringing this matter to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u96	Mr President! Mr Savio has presented this amendment of the law very well, and I would just like to speak because if the government makes and brings sensible entrepreneurship, proposals for improving employment to Parliament and they are dealt with in the Committee on Finance, its tax section, they will receive support and can be taken forward in such a broad consensus. Good proposals are welcome from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u97	The 17th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u98	Mr President! This bill of amendment to Section 37 of Chapter 6 of the Housing Companies Act, which is part of the referral debate, is based on the need to enable and clarify the smoother decision-making of housing companies. If implemented, it would reform our old housing base to better reflect issues that are relevant to people with reduced mobility, senior citizens and families with children, such as accessibility, and at the same time boost the development of one of our major national assets, i.e. the building stock. On this subject, we asked Mr Lindström a very positive answer, together with his colleagues, Mr Sarkkinen, Mr Tuppurainen, Mr Vehkaperä and Mr Vähämäki, in writing, about the possibility of further demolition and infill. The Minister of Justice responded in the same direction and stated that allowing qualified majority voting for further demolition in the future would be necessary to develop the old building stock in line with the development of society. For my part, this has come in when I was chairman of the City Board of Oulu, and when we specifically promoted the development of the property stock both in the city centre and outside the city centre, we met and heard the needs for such a change in the housing company law. So what's going on? First of all, a few words about the overall picture. Our housing stock consists of 1.3 million buildings and 2.9 million dwellings. Seven per cent of buildings and 40 per cent of dwellings are in housing companies. A significant share of Finnish dwellings is therefore located in buildings owned by the housing company. The Housing Share Company Act, which regulates the status of shareholders of housing companies, is mainly well up-to-date and identifies housing-related issues. However, it does not sufficiently identify the smooth decision-making that allows for dismantling or supplementary construction. The Ministry of Justice has also commissioned a VTT report on this issue during the autumn. According to the Government Programme, it is intended to streamline decision-making in housing companies in renovation, accessibility and in-service construction. All these objectives are acceptable and justified. Projects promoting the development of several urban centres are slowing down the requirements of the Housing Shares Act specifically for this demolition of the building. What, then, has become a problem or a delay in these projects? The fact that the Housing Company Act requires the consent of each shareholder in addition to the unanimous decision of the General Meeting to dissolve the company. For example, when a building is in such poor condition that it is not economically viable to repair it, the only sensible option left is to build a new building or sell a building right. I believe that we agree in this Chamber that it is important to streamline and clarify the decision-making of housing companies. The solution to this initiative is the transition to majority decision-making by housing companies. The initiative is based on the fact that the 10 votes cast at the 9 General Meeting in the event of further demolition would suffice. The requirement for the consent of each shareholder would therefore be waived. It is clear that the reform of the law must safeguard the legal status and protection of each shareholder. To this end, we propose that, for the most important reasons, a mechanism equivalent to the redemption obligation and the right of the Companies Act could be used. Its purpose would therefore be to ensure that, for these heavy reasons, the owner of the dwelling or other dwelling of the housing company would be able to obtain a replacement dwelling or a sum equal to the price of the dwelling. In this way, building could be promoted but, on the other hand, the legal protection of minority shareholders could be ensured. By moving to the majority decision-making procedure described above and by imposing a redemption obligation on minority shareholders, the legal security of both the majority and the minority would be better safeguarded, and at the same time the development of our property stock would also better reflect housing and service needs. However, if the law on limited liability companies cannot be applied directly, it is important that, for these serious reasons, some kind of redemption obligation or right be imposed on housing companies. Mr President! According to Statistics Finland, more than 200,000 dwellings are located in blocks of flats built 40 to 50 years ago and more than 180,000 dwellings are located in blocks of flats built 50 to 60 years ago. By comparison, the blocks of flats built 10 to 20 years ago have about 80,000 dwellings and those built 20 to 30 years ago have fewer than 60,000 dwellings. So our property stock, especially in blocks of flats, is, to a great extent, of the age of making major plumbing renovations or building elevators. In other words, about half of our apartment buildings, especially those with two and three floors, are still lift-free. If maintenance has not been done on time and as necessary, there are really large renovations ahead. As a result, for many old buildings it is more economical to build a new one, both in terms of quality, housing needs and accessibility. Mr President! When a change of plan is desired, there may be a situation in which one or two shareholders can prevent the dismantling of the additional building. In the worst case scenario, they take advantage of the law and maximise the value of their own home at the expense of those shareholders who want a change of plan. Thus, a shareholder who does not live in a housing company is equally opposed to a change in the formula. For example, in the case of an investment dwelling, rent income may be cut during the renovation, and this is seen as an obstacle to the development of the building. However, legislation should allow us to look a little further and see what further construction will bring. Housing comfort can improve, the facilities become unhindered, the value of the property of both residents and investors will increase, and the building stock will develop. It is perfectly understandable that when it comes to a person’s home, the building has strong feelings, memories, and a wide variety of points of reference. Demolition or infill must not be seen merely as a cold process and as a bypass to the memories of the current building. It is essential to give memories a place, cherish them and discuss them, even if they organise community encounters or yard events during this process. Above all, it is important that the project has a competent and reliable manager and developer who is committed to the process. Together with the board of the housing company, they ensure that information is available to all parties and that people are able to influence the process and thus avoid unnecessary misunderstandings. Mr President! Further demolition is an opportunity to strengthen the urban structure, accelerate the development of the real estate stock and increase housing production. The strengthening of the social structure has positive effects on the functioning of the labour and housing markets and, more generally, on productivity and competitiveness. It would be ecologically sensible to direct housing production into the community structure in order to make the most of the existing infrastructure and avoid massive additional investment. Further demolition is also a means of developing regions more comprehensively and preventing the decline of older suburbs. When it comes to preparing this matter, it is good to indicate how the legal protection of each shareholder can be ensured while implementing a qualified majority in accordance with the initiative. It is also important to review the possible tax consequences and other consequences, as an example of the sale of a newly built dwelling, if, for example, it takes place within less than two years: does the tax authority interpret it as a new or old dwelling? Hopefully this bill and its support, i.e. the signatures of 105 MPs, will help to speed up the preparation of the amendment to the housing company law. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u99	Mr President! This amendment to the Talvitie housing company law must be supported, and at least I personally see that if the initiative has been signed by 105 MPs, it should have the same status as the citizens' initiative, because the MPs represent the people. My own business concerns Article 34 of the Housing Company Act. I believe that if, as I hope, this committee starts to deal with this issue, it should also take this Article 34. because it contains similar problems, which I shall now try to clarify a little. In the housing company and certainly in many other companies built in the 1960s, the consideration sheet of the articles of association includes, in addition to the actual land-based bio-dimension-based consideration, the compensation for hot water in the following paragraphs, depending on the number of persons living in the dwelling. The actual consideration for the company is confirmed by the Annual General Meeting, and the amount of the water tax is determined by the Board of Directors. However, according to the model company codes used at the time, it has now been unhappily recorded in a later section requiring the consent of all shareholders to change the consideration box in question, and therefore the consumption of water cannot be charged on the basis of the consumption figures of water meters installed in the dwelling, even though the building permit authorities require the installation of individual water meters in connection with a line renovation. According to Article 34 of the current Housing Company Act, changes to the articles of association are decided by the General Meeting. The decision shall be taken by a qualified majority within the meaning of Article 27. However, the General Meeting may decide to amend the grounds for consideration of the articles of association, as provided for in Article 26. The following paragraph states that the purpose of the amendment may also be reserved for a change in the articles of association. In 2009, this was a well-meaning reform of the Housing Share Company Act, which, however, cannot be amended to the articles of association drawn up in the 1960s, which requires the consent of all shareholders. With regard to this section, the legislation discriminates between housing companies. In the written text of the law, it could be read that this act bypasses the stricter rule of the articles of association in the case of the billing of a shareholder based on actual water consumption, since each shareholder pays its own electricity consumption on the basis of the consumption of the electricity meter per apartment. In accordance with the energy regulations of the renovation building, the building permit authorities require the installation of individual water meters at the time of the renovation. The purpose of this provision, as well as the Housing Share Company Act, is to effectively reduce water consumption when the billing shift from the shareholders to the collection of the water tax on the basis of the measured consumption. It should also be noted that none of the shareholders has to pay for any external water consumption if their own water consumption is lower, but only pays for what they have consumed themselves. It is important that water consumption can be invoiced according to the consumption figures of the shareholders. This would require a change in the articles of association to which, according to the current housing company law, we need the consent of all shareholders. The law should be laid down in such a way that the law replaces a more stringent provision of the articles of association with this paragraph. I read this directly in a letter sent to me by the chairman of a housing company’s board, and I have reason to believe that this letter is true. In other words, I am handing over to Mrs Talvitie, who has made a good bill, this paper, and I hope that, when you then deal with it in committee, this proposal will be taken into account where appropriate, because it is quite a long way from the same, so-called technical amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u100	Mr President! Representative Talvitie has done an exceptionally good job, describing most of the problems that the current practical work of the housing company faces. Above all, the fact that unanimity is required in certain situations leaves one shareholder with an important right of blocking, let me say, which in practice will have to be paid in one way or another if we want to move forward. The same applies to balconies, the transfer of software services from cable TV to apartments and cetera et cetera. In practice, there are many of these problems, and the worst are often created when the building has to be demolished, because the station formula has become obsolete or, for example, mold damage in the company’s apartments. All in all, I believe that this law must be renewed in order to be in a sensible situation. For example, the principles of equity law, which have proved to be quite useful, are quite good. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u101	Mr President! Mr Talvitie very well presented this bill and its basis, and in fact because there are 105 names, and because of the fact that there are representatives from Oulu, I would like to warmly support this, because: Oulu has been an example, as a model for land use and construction and efficient land policy, for other larger cities in this country. But it is indeed the case that although the age of the houses is not necessarily a problem in itself — there are a lot of handsome apartment buildings in good condition in Töölö — it is a problem that we have poorly built and in poor condition housing companies, houses. Their renewal and, at the same time, the acquisition of the right to build up and then, with its right of extension, the promotion of accessibility, the construction of lifts, the construction of renovations and so on, is really, really to be welcomed. After all, many times residents are afraid of the renovations: when a large renovation comes into an older apartment house, it may mean tens of thousands of euros per apartment, and the lower income people, usually older people, are in trouble because of these costs. For that reason too, the option of fully considering dismantling, the construction of new buildings, the extension of building rights and, in that way, the strengthening of the urban structure would make sense both economically and collectively. And in that sense, however, when this is the nine tenths, the protection of minorities must be protected in that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u102	Mr President! The bill for amending the housing company law, drawn up and signed by the representative of Talvitie and a large number of other representatives, over 100 representatives, focuses on something that is important for the development of our national wealth, that is, the housing stock, and that is what previous speakers have said. I have also signed this good bill myself. The purpose of the bill is to bring about an amendment to the current legislation requiring a unanimous decision by the housing company to dissolve the company. This bill would move to qualified majority voting under the Companies Act and thus improve the possibilities for building stock development. On the other hand, the draft law would also safeguard the rights of minority shareholders by providing for the redemption of shares. Mr President! As has already been demonstrated in this debate, the renovation debt of so many old housing companies has increased and it does not always make sense to carry out individual renovations in all respects in comparison with the dismantling of the old building and the construction of an entirely new one. As Mrs Talvitie said in her presentation, housing involves a lot of personal feelings and memories, which is, of course, perfectly understandable, and it sometimes slows down or prevents this dismantling, because a small number of shareholders do not want to be dissolved, but nevertheless the will of a qualified majority of 90% is also a matter of great concern. Unfortunately, this will not happen when current legislation is in force. This legislative reform is therefore very much to be welcomed. I wish it a proper committee reading. After all, it has signed over 100 MPs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u103	Mr President! Thank you for your support, and let us take this matter, which Mr Estilä brought to us, which is of course related to this issue but is somewhat different, also in relation to the decision-making of the housing company law. What can be promoted by allowing unanimity and the consent of each shareholder to move to this qualified majority decision? In short, regarding the management of the housing company: Renovating additional construction is indeed a challenging project if you think that usually this kind of housing company's management is so-called lay management and it needs them from external experts at a very early stage. Of course, this is an economically viable project, especially when the increase in building rights is as large as possible — so if the housing company decides that the building will be demolished. But then, of course, the increase in the building right always requires a change in its status formula, and therefore it will also become a stakeholder and public project with municipal decision-making, i.e. the process will inevitably last for years. But here you can see that the specialisation of the managers in this matter could also bring new business opportunities if we in the future had a part of the managing agencies that felt that they wanted to specialise in this dismantling additional construction and could therefore support the housing companies’ governments in this developer and formula process. Let us hope that this bill will be dealt with as quickly as possible and that the Ministry of Justice will begin the preparatory work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u104	Mr President! I too would like to thank Mrs Talvitie for preparing this bill and also for having been able to gather a very impressive group of supporters. This is perhaps a relatively small but nevertheless important issue in housing policy: it is also possible to make this old building stock more flexible and more accessible. I very much hope that this initiative will proceed in such a way that it will be properly dealt with in committee, and that it will also proceed into legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u105	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u106	Mr President! This bill proposes a ban on the purchase of sexual services in accordance with the Nordic model. After all, as early as 2005, the government suggested that the purchase of sexual services would be generally punishable. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs then decided to limit the criminality of buying sexual services from victims of trafficking in human beings and pimping. Unfortunately, this choice has proved to be a failure. After all, the police had to show that the buyer of sex services has deliberately purchased services from the victim of pimping or trafficking in human beings. Indeed, when the judiciary has to assess what each customer should have been able to understand when making this purchase decision, it is slow to move. At present, legislation does not provide sufficient protection for victims of trafficking in human beings and pimping. Furthermore, the law allows the criminal activity behind prostitution to be concealed and gives a picture of voluntary activity. Legislation under this initiative would provide more effective and clearer means to tackle criminal activity and demand for sex trafficking. Legislation in line with the Swedish model has already been recommended in the 2013 Ministry of Justice study, and from the Nordic comparison it can be concluded that police resources would be allocated to the investigation of more serious sexual offences even after the amendment of the law, which would be easier to deal with because of clearer legislation. In Sweden, the number of street prostitution was estimated to have halved after the ban entered into force, but the total number of prostitution was also estimated to have decreased. Since the ban came into force, the sex trade has not gone underground, as in the debate in Finland, for example, it is often warned that there will be a ban on buying, but that it will have been genuinely reduced. Similarly, Norway estimates that the market has fallen by as much as 40% to 65% thanks to the law. In Finland, intervention in trafficking in human beings seems to be particularly challenging in prostitution. The vulnerability and dependence of the victims are common in the sex trade. The sex trade is strongly gendered and is one of the manifestations of violence against women. By paying attention to those who buy sex, we could be more effective in preventing trafficking in human beings and the related sexual exploitation. That is why we need clearer legislation and stronger ways of tackling these problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u107	Mr President! I don't find the bill desirable. There are a number of reasons for this, which I would like to express not only a negative position as a MP of the Left Alliance, who has taken the purchase of sex, but also as a sex labour activist, my doctoral dissertation on sex work in Finland as a sociologist and Chairman of the Board of Pro-tukipiste. So in the last 20 years I have been actively, repeatedly, almost weekly dealings with the sex trade, one way or another. The proposal we have before us today is based on a chain conclusion that, firstly, the criminalisation of the purchase of sex would reduce sex trafficking in general and, secondly, the proportion of trafficking in human beings in sex trafficking would be constant in such a way that the reduction in sex trafficking would also reduce trafficking in human beings. With regard to the first of these claims, we are not sure. We have a lot of research that points us in one direction or another, but no reliable data that would allow us to say for sure that criminalising the purchase of sex increases or reduces the sex trade. On the other hand, as far as the second argument is concerned, that trafficking in human beings is somehow a standard part of the sex trade, we know with certainty that this is not the case. The form of sex trafficking in any society is influenced by many other factors, such as the general position of women, different educational opportunities, differences in income, the overall level of violence in society, the level of absolute poverty and so on. Reducing sex trafficking, even if this is the way to do so, is therefore not an effective or certain means of reducing trafficking in human beings. We also know with a fairly high probability that criminalisation would undermine the safety and autonomy of the sex workers — studies on this have already been carried out quite a lot. There are several indications of this both in Sweden and Norway, where research is available, so when we start to weigh the already uncertain means of curbing trafficking in human beings by curbing sex trafficking, we need to weigh against the way in which it may change working conditions within the sex trade so that more sex workers are exposed to trafficking in human beings or, at the very least, have to work with a pimp because it has become impossible to work independently. So it is possible that even if the criminalisation of the purchase of sex could reduce sex trafficking, human trafficking would increase rather than decrease. I am also opposed to this initiative because I believe that it, although it has been cleaned up, is also a good example of the stigma which is currently the main problem for sex workers at both global and Nordic level, and also a key reason why it is so difficult to work against trafficking in human beings in the context of sexual exploitation. This initiative talks about how, exceptionally often, sex workers have mental health and substance abuse problems, where there is now some kind of research evidence, although the opposite is true, but also about internal breakage, lack of self-esteem and even how sex sales prevent being and developing as a valuable human being. This is precisely the debate I myself have been actively trying to take action against in the last 20 years, the debate in which others speak on behalf of sex workers and the role of sex workers is the role of the victim, the role of the silent victim, whose role is not to say its own opinion, which is not to be seen, which is not to have opinions. I myself come from a feminist tradition that has been strongly emphasised since the 1970s at the latest how important it is to hear a person's own experience and how all people, even women, can have a stable and serious view of their own best. I have interviewed hundreds of sex workers on five continents, and quite often I ask them what is the thing you would feel that your life would be the most improved, which should change, that you have things better. Not one of them has said that if that purchase of sex were criminalized, then my life would be a little easier. There have been people who are in a very good position and who have little or no problems. There are also serious victims of human trafficking and people who have been exploited many times. None of them feel that this is the way in which their lives and circumstances will primarily be improved. Many other suggestions they do have. The bill also refers to authorities in a rather selective way. As far as the international debate is concerned, it is true that within the EU women's lobby in particular has been a strong advocate of criminalising the purchase of sex, but, at the same time, in the international debate many human rights-oriented organisations have moved in exactly the opposite direction. The ILO has traditionally recommended dealing with sex work in the context of labour rights rather than in the criminal context, but it has now been accompanied by new health organisations, WHO, UNAIDS, and now, at the very last, Amnesty has taken a stand in favour of decriminalisation. So the international flow of so - called progressive organizations is exactly the opposite of what is proposed in this bill. Well, if I claim that the criminalisation of the purchase of sex is a very uncertain, probably even harmful, means to combat trafficking in human beings, then what should be done, what would be better? Don't worry, we have a lot of measures that we know for sure will help to reduce trafficking in human beings and help victims of trafficking. Direct, concrete and individual measures are, for example, the removal of the proselytism clause of the Aliens Act. At the moment, a person can be converted from Finland simply because he is suspected of selling sex. If this is a poor woman, she has no real chance of contesting this assessment by the authorities, but the only chance is to leave the country. This leads to the unfortunate fact that violent customers also know that sex workers from outside the EU cannot rely on protection from public authorities in Finland because they are afraid of proselytism and are at greater risk of encountering violence than sex workers from the EU. Another, at least in the case of ex-post assistance, would be to facilitate access to the protection system for victims of trafficking in human beings by covering at least cases where there is a relative consensus among the authorities that trafficking in human beings has taken place, but legally sufficient evidence cannot be gathered. Recovering the proceeds of prostitution would, at the very least, be an essential reform for the stigma. In practice, we now have a situation in which you are liable for the sale of sex, but if the customer fails to pay, you are not entitled to collect these unpaid fees. Finally, cooperative brothels, which would mean small-scale co-operation arrangements between sex workers, would increase their mutual autonomy and reduce dependence on pimping organisations, which are also an essential environment for trafficking in human beings. More generally, of course, to influence the position of women, to influence the position of immigrants, [Second Vice-President ArtoSatonen : 10 minutes of recommendation time has already been ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u110	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Kontula for bringing a different perspective to this debate. On the points where you spoke about improving the position of women and also improving the victims of trafficking in human beings, I do agree in many respects. But I have a different perspective on this prostitution itself, and also on the stigma you were talking about, which will certainly come up and will also be reflected in that bill. I am also referring to the fact that, according to that report published by the Ministry of Justice in 2013, 36 final judgments were issued on buying sex from the target of trafficking in human beings or pimping in seven years. At the same time, 106 fines were imposed under the Order Act for selling and buying sex and most of them were given for selling sex in a public place. The buyer rarely received that fine. What I mean is that in practice, in my opinion, current legislation does not promote the position of women, nor does it promote the position of sellers, but it is more likely that current legislation penalises the female victim of trafficking in human beings or of pimping than the male purchaser of sexual services. In that sense, I welcome the fact that both the European Parliament and the Council of Europe's Convention against Trafficking in Human Beings has, as you said in your speech, taken the view that the criminalisation of the purchase of sex should be seen as a means of reducing the demand for trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u111	Mr President! I very much agree with the previous speaker that the current state of legislation in Finland is not desirable. As regards this criminalisation of the purchase of sex when it comes to mating or trafficking in human beings, I opposed it when it was being adopted. I did not think it was good at the time, and I have not considered it good since then because the main problems associated with the criminalisation of purchases are now focused on the group of sex workers who are already in the most vulnerable position, who already have to work with pimps because of their weaker position, or who have been somehow exploited or victimised in human trafficking. But I do not see that the solution to our bad legislative situation would be that, when these people are already being mistreated by the authorities, then a little more pressure would be put on the screws, as I see it, that this extension of the criminalisation of the purchase of sex would work. My logic and the logic of those I represent go so far as to say that if there is a law that does not work, it does not add to the law, but removes the law and try something that has more positive proof.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u112	Mr President! We therefore agree with Mr Kontula that current legislation is neither optimal nor, in the best way, preventing this problem. But perhaps the difference arises from the fact that I personally think that prostitution, either as a voluntary or legal practice, is not beneficial to the person practicing it. You have already referred to the fact that, among prostitutes, mental health and substance abuse problems and other health problems are common and prostitution is part of a cycle of exclusion where it is difficult to show what the cause is and what the result is. But, in any case, this action will result in a lack of self-respect which is creating and is part of the stigma that I do not think will go away, even if all prostitution is legalized, as if these legal brothels to which you referred were formed. Very few in any society would recommend prostitution as a profession to their daughter or sister, and I think that by criminalising the purchase of sex services, we are also sending the message that, like the other Nordic countries, we value women's human rights and opportunities to develop themselves as valuable individuals in a way other than selling sex services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u113	Mr President! Stigma certainly does not leave by setting up brothels, but it might leave in such a way that in this Chamber sex workers are spoken of according to the same code as people in general. I, too, know the people to whom being a politician has led to a lack of self-respect, but it does not excuse me to supplant the views of these politicians in their own best interests or to treat them as an object when they are laid down in the rules of the game which affect them themselves. Stigma means a mechanism that in some way the community sees an individual only through a certain property. Stigma does not only apply to sex workers, stigma is related to disability — I was just at a mental health event, mental health problems are one of the strong stigmatising factors — but historically, sex sales have been one of the most powerful stigmas in Western society. And that is why there is also a representative in this Chamber. Räsänen feels justified in talking about a lack of self-respect, although studies show that while some of the sex workers may have lost their self-esteem during sex sales, for others it has served as a way to independence and an increase in self-esteem. These are both facts that occur within the same phenomenon. In fact, neither one of these has anything to do with our work in this Chamber, because we are not in this Chamber to tell people what is good for them and what is bad for them, what is right for them and what is wrong for them in their own lives, but our job in this Chamber is to create such general rules of play, in which people have as good a starting point as possible in managing their own lives, as much autonomy and as much chips as possible in use and as good protection against any form of abuse and abuse as possible. The stigmatisation of sex workers as helpless victims is a form of exploitation rather than defending them, because that is certainly not what sex workers are. I was just in Nairobi a few months ago. There I met local sex workers in brothels, streets and restaurants. Their lives weren't particularly rosy there. In fact, it is much more difficult than in Finland, as the position of women in Nairobi in general is much more difficult than in Finland. But these women who had ended up in prostitution were, as a rule, survivors compared to women who, in the same situation, had not made that decision. Compared to these, they had their own money at their disposal. Often the background was divorce due to a man’s violent conduct, and they had preferred to choose an independent, stigmatized social position rather than to devote themselves to the role of his constantly abused mate. It wasn't about free choice. Often in Nairobi, the only possible career choice for a single parent is sex work. But it was in the context of what different options they had, the best success recipe they had in use. Well, now if we want to tell them that you are the victims and deny this job that you are doing now, it means from their point of view that they have one less option at their disposal. It doesn't mean they have more chips, it means they have less after. If we really want to help people and create a better society for these people, instead of looking down from the hills of the elite, we have to ask ourselves what other options can be offered so that selling sex on the street at a price of EUR 5 is no longer an attractive option.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u114	Mr President! I would like to reiterate that this bill does not, therefore, target any criminalisation of sex sellers, but specifically those who buy sex. In that sense, I do not think that this bill is, as it were, stamping out these people who, on the contrary, want to be helped and supported. I myself know people who have been involved in sex work. I have spoken with them and I do, of course, appreciate them as fully-fledged citizens, and they certainly have the same civil rights and the right to express themselves as everyone else. To conclude, I do agree that we should have those other options, then thinking of developing countries and also Finland, that no one would have to resort to such measures, as it were, in order to secure their own livelihoods, because it also harms them themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-23-ps-119.u115	Mr President! If it were so simple that this law would not harm sex workers, then I would not oppose it, would not oppose the entire international network of sex workers' own organisations and would not oppose practically all social workers in Western countries who regularly work in the field with sex workers, would not oppose field workers almost unanimously. However, the information we have at the moment, although indicative and often based on micro-interviews, clearly advocates that the price for this criminalisation of the purchase of sex be borne precisely by the sex workers. In both Sweden and Norway, for example, condoms have been used as evidence against sex buyers, which in practice has resulted in buyers no longer wanting to use condoms, which poses a significant threat to the health of sex workers. Contrary to what is claimed in the bill that sex work has not gone underground, if we look at the general line of research, there is a very strong view that during this time at least the sex work has substantially moved from the streets to the Internet — whether it has been done as a result of this law or for other reasons, we cannot judge — and, on the other hand, we have moved from indoors to outcalls, that is to say, sex workers do not accept the police at home or in a hotel room because they fear the police. These all increase the risk of violence and insecurity for the sex worker. They pay the price of the moral policy that politicians are pursuing in this Chamber — or a politician.
