ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-14-ps-101.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 17/2016 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-14-ps-101.u2	Madam President! The Social Affairs and Health Committee has discussed the activity report of the Social Insurance Institution’s delegates for 2015. According to the report by the delegates in the reporting year, a major administrative reform has been completed in the Social Insurance Institution: the number of insurance groups has been reduced from 24 to five insurance groups, while at the same time there are now six functional profit units. At the same time, development and solution work related to benefits has been separated from customer service, which is then managed by its own unit in all service channels. The committee therefore considers it noteworthy that the reduction in the administrative burden has not affected the number of service points and staff have not been made redundant in this change. Kela's total benefit expenditure amounted to EUR 14.31 billion in 2015, with an increase of 2.1 per cent. In particular, benefits expenditure has increased in terms of unemployment security and general housing allowance. Kela is facing new tasks, such as the transfer of the basic part of the income support to Kela and they have required changes and preparation during the reporting year. The Committee therefore stresses that this transfer of income support to Kela requires close cooperation with municipalities both nationally and locally. There has also been a good increase in online contact in Kela, and last year it was 60% of the applications. The electronic prescription has progressed, and 28 million electronic prescriptions were written in the past year. Similarly, Omanta-palvelu, the citizens' own data service, was used more than 600,000 times a month at the end of the year. The Committee therefore stresses that the development of the Omanta-palvelu should be continued in such a way as to enable citizens to supplement their own health and well-being information. The Social Insurance Institution has also been involved in the planning of the Government's basic income experiment, and the committee, like the delegates, stresses that the expertise of Kela's experts must be utilised. The committee also stresses that, when legislative reforms are made, sufficient time will always be reserved for implementation, as the Kela systems will also require that sufficient time to prepare for payments to be made. The committee also welcomes the fact that the delegates have followed the well-being of Kela's employees in their activities, and these indicators of well-being at work have remained at a good level. Mr President! The Committee on Social Affairs and Health therefore proposes that Parliament adopt its opinion on the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-14-ps-101.u3	Madam President! Improving e-services is an important area for development and emerges from the activity report. Finland is one of the leading countries in digitalisation and eGovernment – development work is therefore made from advanced arrangements. It is positive that Kela’s report shows that the use of e-prescription, for example, has increased significantly. Its benefits are varied: the patient can apply to any pharmacy, and the doctor can check this total medicine with the patient’s consent to prevent harmful drug interactions and overlaps, among other things. From the point of view of e-services, the development of services in the National Health Archives, i.e. the development of so-called "Cantasy" services, continued to be lively during the period considered. Mr President! The Social Insurance Institution has been a key participant in the planning of the basic income experiment, and this basic income experiment attracts interest around the world. Even the Nordic countries have become inquiries, at least to myself, that what is happening in your country. e-services, online contacts, have continued to increase during the reporting year, and up to 60% of applications were made through online services last year. It is good that the Omakanta service is being developed and that citizens can also complement their own health and well-being information to the system. Of course, we must always remember that, as I have often spoken here before, the electronic world is not necessarily open and open to everyone, and we must also remember those people who do not have an Internet or a computer and who do not have access to their data through it. So let us remember the aged and those who have no chance of doing so, and their very existence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-14-ps-101.u4	Mr President! The year 2015 was the year of development and changes in the Social Insurance Institution. Electronic services were developed, the planning of the transfer of income support from municipalities to Kela was continued and the preliminary analysis of the basic income test was given to Kela. The number of office appointments and telephone calls in Kela has clearly decreased. On the other hand, the number of identified web sites in the Kela.fi network service grew from 12.3 million in the previous year to over 14 million. The use of an electronic recipe increased, and Kela's Kanta services expanded and diversified with the development of customers' needs and legislation. For example, the statutory task of Kela was to extend the Omanta-palvelu with a self-data resource in which the citizen can store his own health and well-being data. Further development of the network should be carried out. At the same time, however, care must be taken to ensure that people who do not use the online service for one reason or another have access to telephone or Kela's offices. The introduction of proxy for the use of online services should also be developed. For example, the elderly’s relatives would benefit from new and efficient online services. The planning of the transfer of income support started in Kela in autumn 2014, and it has progressed on schedule. The aim is to transfer the grant and payment of basic income support to Kela from the beginning of 2017. Information system projects related to the payment of income support and plans to increase staff are progressing on time. Income support customers will be served in all Kela service channels, not just online. The goal is more efficient and better payment of income support for the customer. Perhaps even older people who, when municipalities pay income support, have not wanted or dared to apply for it will now find it easier to apply for income support. Mr President! There's still room for development in Kela. I have tried to influence the more detailed publication of the qualifications of the experts used by Kela. Their assessments affect the benefits received by many Finns, and it would be good for the peace of mind of applicants to have their training information revised in more detail. We asked the representatives of Louhelainen and Meri a written question on the subject. In the autumn, a research consortium led by Kela was selected as the author of the preliminary study of the basic income experiment mentioned in the Government Programme. Kela has the necessary expertise and resources to carry out a challenging study of this kind. Basic income includes many possibilities. It would simplify our complex social assistance system and guarantee a certain level of basic income for those who need it. Basic income would also be a more supportive form of income than existing social assistance if it were successful. I very much hope that there will be good experiences with the basic income experiment. Director General Liisa Hyssälä retires. He has led Kela vigorously and competently. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-14-ps-101.u5	Madam President! For over a year now, I have been appointed to the Social Insurance Institution and have been able to follow Kela’s activities very closely and have received a lot of information at the meetings and other meetings of the delegates. In recent years, Kela's operations have been developed customer-orientedly. This is now visible in Kela's operations and customer feedback received. When the reputation of the Social Insurance Institution was bureaucratic and slow in past years, it has now become more efficient and customer-friendly in the eyes of the citizens. Here I will list some examples of customer orientation. Online contact has increased to 14 million visits in 2015. Of those who visited Kela’s office, 96% felt that the service was friendly — it is very much so — and 95% felt that it had received sufficient information. So much has gone on since the time when it was felt that there was no information about Kela and that there might not be so friendly there. These — I might say, although it is not read anywhere — are certainly the world’s top class. The use of an electronic recipe has increased significantly. Eighty-seven per cent of prescriptions covered by the reimbursement of medicines are electronic. I always wear it myself. In 2015, doctors wrote 28 million electronic prescriptions. Citizens also used Omakanta service 600,000 times a month. There was already talk here that Kela's statutory task was to extend the Omakanta service by means of a self-information resource in which the citizen can store his own health and well-being information. In addition, Kela's websites are constantly being developed as an online service to adapt to the customer's life situation and to guide and support the customer in handling matters. Nevertheless, as Mrs Juvonen pointed out in her speech, not all people have access to a computer or simply do not know how to use a computer. It is therefore important that personal services and telephone services are always available. It is to be confirmed in this progress. I still drew attention to these good figures in terms of well-being at work. At the end of 2015, Kela employed 5968 people — nearly 6,000 people, which is quite a staff. The indicators of well-being at work remained at a good level. Eighty-four per cent of the staff were more satisfied with their work as a whole — 84 per cent, it is very much — and they considered Kela a good employer. At school, this is 8.4. It is a very good achievement in this situation, in which Kela has had to reform a lot and make a lot of changes, as has been said in the previous speeches. According to the personnel survey, the school grade for the functioning of the work community was 8.2 and the grade for the realisation of Kela's values was 8.7. And this is very nice that the satisfaction of leading close managers was at its peak of 82 per cent. As a supervisor myself, I know that these figures are difficult to achieve, especially in the context of change management. It is also important that the opportunity to influence one's own work was felt to be very satisfied, more satisfied than ever: this figure is 70%. A weekly intake of 87 per cent was experienced. So people like Kela, they like to come to work, the supervisor gets a good feeling — this is a really great achievement. Still, there was less urgency and stress. The only thing that had risen and remained higher was the number of sick absences. There may not be many reasons for this, but there is such a development area if you want to find something bad here. But once and for all a great result, and we must praise Kela for it. Madam President! Due to Kela’s skilled employees and good management, we can today be proud of the Social Insurance Institution. The whole public sector could learn
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-14-ps-101.u6	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! First of all, I would like to join in the praises and praises given here both for the activities of Kela as a whole and for the activities of President-General Hyssälä. Almost all of the speeches have highlighted basic income and basic income testing. In my opinion, basic income is an upper concept that is easy to support in theory. After all, it has been said that, when the basic income was realised, it would remove bureaucracy, it would eliminate poverty in this country, it would mean that work would always be worthwhile, according to Li Andersson, that you could demand higher wages and, according to Björn Wahlroos, that you should be able to pay lower wages. All these hopes would be fulfilled in the same new system. I don't believe in this. On the contrary, I believe that basic income is a concept, a dream to which everyone reflects their own wishes. It is said that if all this good stuff were to be done in such a way that it would not cost any more than the current social security system, I really cannot believe that. Personally, I have compared the basic income to the Great Pumpkin known from the Tenavat comic book, which the crowd expected — especially the comic character Eppu — and which comes and solves all the problems. Now is the time for a basic income experiment. So what is this basic income experiment? Does it implement these objectives that have just been mentioned? Does it meet the most obvious objective of combining different basic security benefits into one basic security benefit called basic income? Well, it doesn't even make it happen. In this basic income experiment, which the government envisages, basic security for the unemployed, i.e. labour market support or basic daily allowance, is replaced by basic income. And the difference is that, unlike unemployment benefit, this substitute for basic income does not decrease when the unemployed person concerned is given employment. On the other hand, this basic income does not compensate for any other benefits, such as housing allowance or income support or earnings-related unemployment benefit, if it is available. In practice, this basic income experiment, which we all warmly support, is examining whether it is easier for an unemployed person who is entitled to keep his unemployment benefit when he or she is employed, than an unemployed person who is part of a comparative group and who is not entitled to unemployment benefit when he or she is employed. Of course, this is influenced by regional differences, and this is influenced by what other subsidies this person has, who will then leave if he becomes employed. But even with these reservations, I dare to argue that the result of the experiment is that a person who can keep his unemployment allowance even if he is employed will be better employed and more so than a person who cannot keep his unemployment benefit when he is employed. This is what is actually being tried out in this basic income experiment that is now being planned. I myself would call this experiment much more appropriate, for example, an incentive test for the long-term unemployed than a basic income test. And now I hear this is what they're coming from abroad to wonder and learn from our basic income experiment. I can predict that there will be many disappointed foreigners in our country, if that is where to learn. Madam President! There was something else in this sense, but time is passing and I will just finish by saying that I think it would also be important to try out the so-called inclusive social security system, which is also known in the Government Programme. With inclusive social security, I understand that all people, at least younger people, who have been unemployed for a long time, should be offered employment, but at the same time they should also be required to take up this work. It would not be a slave work that would take place five days a week. It would be perhaps a few hours a week, and that work activity would be something that would hopefully be relevant to this unemployed person himself, but which would also have a positive impact on society as a whole. I myself would like to see this aspect of the government programme promoted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-14-ps-101.u7	Mr President! During the past few years, as has been shown in the good speeches here, Kela has undergone a lot of renewal, streamlining and electrifying its operations and organisation, and it is worth looking at the additional workload that will be passed on to Kela in the future, which I think is justified. Transferring the payment of income support to Kela from next year is a big project that also changes the structure of our social security system, the relationship between income support and basic security, and, on the other hand, the basic income experiment and its very different approach from the current system have already been raised in several speeches. And that is not the end of the reforms: It is today that a report by liquidator Kalle Könkkölä has been published, which relates to disability benefits, especially transport services for which payment is made. Kela is closely involved. Könkkölä's innovative proposals, which are also approaching the pattern of personal budgeting, seem to me to be something that should also be taken into account because the 75-year age limit on disabled people has caused a lot of noise and from then on the services can be removed after the Könkkölä proposals. This entity around Kela is now in a major transformation, and I encourage it Work in Kela for a great innovation and also for a careful evaluation of its management system in front of all of these.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-14-ps-101.u8	Mr President! The report on the activities of the elected representatives of the Social Insurance Institution is on the table, and as chairman of the delegates, I would say that we have all heard carefully what the Parliament has said and assessed about the activities of Kela. First of all, I would like to say that customer orientation, customer orientation and customer orientation have been the way Kela’s operations have been developed. The fact that we have electronic systems does not mean that personal assistance, support and advice are not available. On the contrary: An appointment booking service has been started. In the major changes in life, you can come to the Kela office and receive personal advice. So we have to get everyone that way of getting services. But briefly concerning Kela's activities, the historical change has been made in Kela. Regional government has been abolished and bureaucracy has been dismantled, but this has not meant that regional points have been reduced. Of the 26 insurance companies, 5 have been transferred to the insurance group. This must also be done in other Finnish society, so that activities are developed in such a way that people actually receive services cost-effectively. With regard to that report, I would like to say very closely that although unemployment and this weak economic situation have put real pressure on the Social Insurance Institution, in addition to the major administrative reform, the Social Insurance Institution has remained within the deadlines for the payment of the various benefits. This is an important issue for delegates to follow, i.e. whether Finns get their benefits on time. There are many of the most vulnerable groups there, and it is particularly important that this issue works. At the same time, major reforms have been prepared: the transfer of basic income support to the Social Insurance Institution, as have our research units, for example, in this preparation of the basic income experiment. Which means there's been a lot of things at the same time. At the same time, Kela has been managed in such a way that employees' job satisfaction and many figures have remained in a good position. Perhaps absenteeism is a small number to which I would draw attention, but much still needs to be developed. But what is essential is that we focus on the training of staff: we have online training, local managers have been trained. This has also been the case with our skilled staff, and things have been done well, and I would like to thank the staff for this place. Which is also important, the customer satisfaction figures have been good. But the renewable, evolving Kela will not remain in place, but actions will be taken all the time so that things can be done better. As a member of the Committee on Finance, I would also like to say that Kela has been able to keep its operating expenses below 3%, and that is very important. However, the Social Insurance Institution has experienced severe additional savings. They were still in the course of the previous budget period and have been sought. I would like to draw attention to research activities involving EUR 400000. I think it is important that the Government and Parliament consider what the role of the Social Insurance Institution will be in the future, and I personally think it is important that it is involved in developing Finnish social security and also that research resources be kept at that level. The role of Kela must also be even more important in the future when the government takes steps to improve the impact assessment of the various proposals – it also requires the resources of the National Pensions Institute’s experts and research department. What is still a message in this account is also a message to Parliament, to us ourselves when we legislate, and perhaps also to the government in particular: It is very important that sufficient time is devoted to the implementation of legislative reforms. We know certain performances that were coming and they were pulled back. They always cause measures in the Social Insurance Institution, and when major reforms come, so far the Social Insurance Institution has been able to respond to them, but it is important that here in the government and in Parliament we also consider that there is enough time for implementation, and that is, of course, ultimately a matter for us legislators. The second message in this report is that the committee attaches great importance to the use of the expertise and information systems of Kela's experts in the reform of social welfare and health care, and this message will certainly go to that side of the government. Mr President! At the end of the debate, which Mr Zyskowicz started with the development of social security: just like that, the central objective of the basic income experiment is that we get elements of how the current social security system is being developed. And right here, when time runs out, I want to say that it is important that we also prepare our views on the development of social security. Indeed, it has been a long time, and when, in this period, the government is able to carry out a reform of social welfare and health services, I think it is important that the next government negotiations take on board and the next government takes on the whole reform of social security for its agenda. But it is a good thing that the government is already taking action with the incentive traps and many other social security issues so that we can have our social security system for this millennium. It's out of time now. But it must be fair and work-friendly and that no one falls in and everyone is taken care of.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-14-ps-101.u9	Congressman Filatov, do you like that place? - Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-14-ps-101.u10	Mr President! In short, thank you for the timely transfer of income support to Kela. I myself supported it last season when that law was enacted, and I saw that it brings simplification to our multi-step social security in the long term. Thank you also for this background material for the basic income experiment, because it tells us well how the coordination of our transfers is sometimes problematic and in which situations work is worthwhile and in which situations it is not worthwhile, and also gives advice on how to find a solution to those problems. However, on the basis of this basic income experiment, I very much agree with Mr Zyskowicz that it does not really respond to the problem at which it started to seek an answer. It is a very minimalist experiment on labour market support, and in fact it may even make it a little more difficult for some of those involved in the experiment to work, because it does not guarantee that income support will not be cut or housing allowance will not be cut, while in our EUR 300 free section these two things have been carried out. I would like to take this opportunity to briefly address two issues relating to reimbursement of medicines: The second is that Kela has taken the practice that chronically long-term ill people should only receive a month’s medication at a time. In those areas where pharmacy trips are long, this is actually going to be a rather problematic situation. You might think that you could get a three - month or a little longer period, so you wouldn’t have to go on a long pharmacy trip in the countryside just for some package of pills. And the second relates to the fact that when we have responsibilities added, the initial responsibilities as well as the responsibilities of different medicines, and for many sick people January is quite a nightmare when all the responsibilities are triggered, so if this responsibilities could be amplified a little further, people would not have to wonder in January whether to fill the refrigerator or the medicine cabinet. Both of these things
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-14-ps-101.u11	Now that we are running out of time because of the meeting of the large committee, I will no longer give any further speeches, so this matter will then be suspended.
