ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u1	The third item in the order of business is the supplementary election of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I note that the election is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report TrVM 1/2016 vp. Conversation, representative Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u3	Mr President! I see that Parliament has moved to plain language, The Audit Committee has dealt with two important reports from the National Audit Office. One concerns the 2015 Parliamentary elections, their election funding and one about party funding in 2015, the supervision of party funding. Generally speaking, the legislative changes that were made in 2010 have proved to be very effective and the system has been reformed in the way that the main aim of the legislation was pursued. The new practices, which have been designed to increase transparency and to bring about the right level of engagement, have worked, and this has worked both in terms of election funding for candidates and in terms of election funding for parties and their neighbouring communities, and can therefore be generally welcomed in this respect. Then there are some observations that need to be made in this context in view of the follow-up. In the 2015 Parliamentary elections, 273 persons have been required to report and all have submitted an election funding notice as referred to in the Election Finance Act, and a majority of candidates, almost 60 per cent, have also submitted a prior notification. In its report, the Audit Office has stated that the Agency has no reason to doubt the accuracy of the notifications it receives, and in this respect it works as intended. Then, as a matter of doubt, not all post-notifications have been received from post-notifications. After all, an ex post declaration must be made if the election work has been financed by a loan, and the purpose of the ex post declaration is that when the loan is paid it is known how the loan payment has been financed. In this regard, the Agency has stated that it does not have the same powers of action to verify these posters as it has to ensure the actual election money notification. The Audit Committee has stated that this is an obvious flaw, and in its report it suggests that next time the electoral funding law is being reformed, it is justified to act so that the Audit Office also has the same rights to follow up these declarations of repayment of the loan and to receive this information as the Agency itself has with regard to election money declarations. This procedure therefore refers to the right to impose a periodic penalty payment if the requested information has not been provided. Then, a total of EUR 9.8 million was spent on campaigning for parliamentary elections, and this is still in the direction of growth: EUR 1.2 million more than in the previous elections. The biggest campaign cost nearly 130,000 euros and the smallest less than 3000 euros. The average campaign expenses were EUR 36,000. The Audit Committee in its own work and also in its report drew attention to the increase in campaign costs in the parliamentary elections and notes that this legislation has not been able to influence the fact that the increase in campaign costs has been more limited or contained. At the time of the legislative reform in 2010, Article 1 of the Electoral Finance Act states that the purpose of the Act is to increase transparency in election funding and information on the potential links between candidates and to limit the increase in the costs of candidates' election campaigns. The Audit Committee was concerned about this increase in the amount of money, the phenomenon and the debate, which is also known elsewhere in the Western democracies. That is why the committee quoted the debate which also took place in the context of the referral debate, and in its opinion the committee concluded that the proposal for a sound campaign ceiling should be considered worthy of clarification, which would even out the differences in funding between the candidates and thus ensure genuine functioning of democracy. However, it was stated in the debate that this campaign ceiling is not unambiguous, and it was therefore important to emphasise that, when this is being studied, a working model should be sought. In addition to this, the Audit Office has also gone through party funding. 145 persons are subject to control under the right of inspection. This last audit report has carried out 35 audits and is directed at all party related communities, 13 of them, and also district associations, some of them district associations. Here, too, the report is good in terms of political democracy. The general conclusion of the Agency was that, following the additions, the notifications were essential, correct information, and also aid received by neighbouring communities has been properly explained. Then this inspection also found that the local community has the right to provide free support. What is important is that the support from neighbouring communities is in the same reporting obligation as the support received from parties, but it was found that not all those who had received support from the neighbouring community had made these declarations of support in time, and then, after this inspection, these declarations were supplemented. What is essential, however, is that there is no grey money here, because these local communities' own declarations, which have become money from the outside, have been correctly made. But there are errors in this regard and they have then been corrected afterwards. The expert consultation in committee was also reassuring in that the experts' understanding was that electoral and party funding legislation is working well at present. And when there are shortcomings, they can be dealt with in practice. Finally, I would also like to raise two points in the report. The second is the trust fee. This has already been discussed in the past: is this party payment for such items of external money charged for the municipal trust fee and whether it should be announced or whether it should be considered as a normal party fundraising, where there is no commitment when it applies to all the persons in the party's duties. In the past, the committee has concluded that this should be seen as a normal source of funding, which does not have to follow these notification thresholds and then initiate a notification procedure. The Audit Office has also developed its own activities on the basis of the previous opinion of the committee, so that these trust fees are now considered to be such a normal fundraising, a fundraising exercise related to the activities of party groups or municipal organisations, where there is no need for such a declaration of affiliations. The second point concerns the contributions to be collected in connection with the election campaign. There has also been a debate on these issues that, after these specific limits, should these contributions be notified that if more payments are made from the candidates, then should it then be stated that outside aid has become available. The committee took the view that this too is quite normal democratic activity. Candidates, for example through district organisations, pay part of the costs of the election campaign with this kind of performance, and should not be obliged by district organisations to monitor these funds, because they are not outside support but normal candidate activity, provided that the candidate himself has these expenses, the candidate contributions indicated in his or her declaration. The committee has concluded that there are no separate comments from Parliament on these reports. However, an important part of the functioning of democracy is also the fact that we are quoting the work that has been done here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u4	Let's go to the debatable part here. I would now ask those Members who wish to speak for one minute to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u5	Madam President! The chairman of the committee therefore made an excellent speech and explained the committee's position. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, overall, this electoral money legislation has worked well. For example, from the 2015 Parliamentary elections, all the persons obliged to report submitted an election money notification. As far as I am concerned, this report does not raise any other very important points, but I would like to pay close attention to this aspect of the campaign ceiling here. The campaign costs have increased from election to election. Now we have more elections coming, including regional elections. I think it is high time that we returned to the Committee's report, which would set clear campaign ceilings. I believe that the proposal in the Committee's report would be a very realistic basis at the moment, in euro terms. I hope that there will be a strong debate on this and that we will finally find something.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u6	Madam President! The chairman of the committee, Mr Heinäluoma, presented this report in an excellent manner, so it does not need to be supplemented. But how can we improve the transparency of funding for public engagement? This was not really a debate in committee, but I think that public attention has been paid to the fact that various interest groups do not even publish accounts properly on their websites. By this I mean, for example, the social partners. Every cup of coffee must be accounted for separately by the MP, but it would be appropriate for the social partners, which have a considerable impact on society, to publish the accounts and report on their own funding openly, more transparently than today. If it were voluntary, it would be a very good thing, but if there is no progress, then at some point we should consider whether we should also increase the transparency of the funding of this public influence in our society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u7	Madam President! One of the issues that was mentioned earlier, most recently during the debate on election money, is this election work carried out by employees of various organisations during their working hours, and in practice their employer pays them full wages for doing election work. This phenomenon is true, and it is mainly about the election work carried out by employees of employees' organisations. If employees of employers’ organizations were there to distribute soup and brochures, the work they did would also be problematic. But I haven't seen Mr. Spiderman or Mr. Oxala in the squares. Ordinary voluntary work is not subject to the obligation to report, but, in practice, this kind of "storage night" with full pay is electoral support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u8	Mr President! There were important points here, and I would like to draw attention to that advance notice. There was already talk of these advance announcements here, and this has also been raised about the People's Party of Finland — among other things, Mrs Elo has spoken about this in addition to me. In other words, it would increase very much transparency if, at the latest, before the advance votes begin, for example, you could see specifically to the electorate whose bread the representative eats and whose money he spends on the campaign. In particular, Mr Ala-Nissilä raised these huge subsidies from the social partners, which would then come to light, as well as the large investments made by other companies, such as private companies. I'm not against the campaign ceiling myself. On the other hand, I think that we Finns have usually had our own money and very reasonable campaign funding, so that the big money does not always guarantee that you can get in. But I think this is something that can be considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u9	Mr President! I think it is a good thing that in this context the issue of the campaign ceiling, to which many speakers have referred here, has now come up again. In particular, in the event of new elections, such as regional elections, and many Members of Parliament taking part in municipal elections and other elections, it would be very important to regulate the overall cost of this campaign. Then this campaign ceiling — although there are different loopholes and they can always be found by people — would set such a general standard for what is the appropriate amount to spend on campaigns at maximum, and I think it would bring some kind of rats into this election work and perhaps bring people back to that field more rather than just using media and money through media.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u10	Madam President! As has been said, we have already had this debate on many occasions in this Chamber, and this campaign ceiling has already been spectacularly on the agenda. Of course, it was very nice to listen to this presentation of the report by the chairman of the committee, precisely because the committee has learned lessons, or cannot say lessons, but against good advice, and has produced a fine report on this campaign ceiling. I think it is very important and positive that speeches from various parties have also been used here to clarify the possibility of using the campaign ceilings again. It is certainly the case, as we have said many times here, that these are not simple things, but it is precisely the model that must now be looked for. In fact, in this speech, President, I would like to thank you for this record on the campaign ceilings, because I think it is very important that we should be able to curb this power of money in these campaigns.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u11	Mr President! First of all, it is easy to agree with the excellent report of the committee, which the chairman of the committee presented here very well. I myself asked for this reply in order to comment specifically on this campaign ceiling. The fact is that the cost of the election is rising, and that share of my own funding, at least, has been close to 100%. It knows that more and more work will be done here in the coming years, that the electoral loan will be effectively financed, i.e. paid off. Above all, the question is that a solution should be found to prevent us from being able to get here with money alone. When we consider this possibility, we must take into account the fact that it does not prevent us from making a campaign, but it must not be massively large. We candidates would then be a little more equal and equal, regardless of our own wealth situation. Because otherwise it will be impossible to even seek out those who do not have that own funding. The second point that relates to this publicity is that I would like the candidates to announce in advance in the run-up to the elections, which is their campaign budget. It would help the voters.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u12	Madam President! It is good to talk about campaign ceilings, and it is good that the chairman of the committee also pointed out their problem. The night spent at work, which Mr Zyskowicz raised, is a problem, and also a so-called free advertising time, something not everyone necessarily gets. The big problem is this, which Mr Anttila raised in a positive way, i.e. prior notification and then the difference in reality. We have a number of candidates whose advance notice was half or at least one third less than the actual cost, and it gives people the complete wrong impression. Which means that prior notice must be binding if you go to it. Personally, I am in favour of reporting accounting levels. This report highlights the fact that everyone was asked for statements. Why don't we just ask for an accounting-level announcement of the campaign? Finally, Mr President, I would also like Parliament to have a lobby register, a register of influence, which would increase transparency in decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u13	Mr President! Firstly, with regard to this campaign ceiling, I would also like a little responsibility from us to ensure that the candidates do not take on these oversized loans in that election rush and then fall into financial distress if they do not get through. If I'm remembering right, it's the congressman. In previous discussions, the paper pointed out that it would be possible to use these as deductions, a certain cost of obtaining work. I thought it was a good idea. Finally, I would like to mention that when Yle has advertised these candidates in previous elections this was, in my opinion, a good method and I would miss it even more for them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u14	Madam President! This report makes it very clear that, given that this practice has been in Finland for several years and several elections, the determination of candidates to submit these electoral declarations is very good, and publicity here is the best way to serve that objective: the press and other media will immediately raise the issue if there are these delays or if there are no such announcements at all. For the purposes of these pre-notifications, the representative: In fact, Anttila raised it — we can, of course, tell you how much money is going to be spent, but quite often many people report to a rather low level, because they do not want to be profiled by prying money before the elections,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u17	Madam President! I could no longer agree with Mr Essayah. We must congratulate the Committee on Audit, which is, indeed, of great importance in terms of its size. That it is now time for the parties, the Ministry of Justice and, for example, the party secretaries, who have met today on other matters, to take a booth in the light of the new elections. It is not the idea in the campaign ceiling that everyone is exactly the same — if I were as handsome as Mrs Zyskowicz or even as handsome as Mr Mika Kari, it would have been much easier to come here — but it is a question of curbing this spending of money, and in that sense I am not very enthusiastic about the tax reductions proposed by Mrs Ruoho and Mr Lehti, because they would rather encourage the use of additional money when it comes to curbing it and more emphasising the footwork which, in my opinion, is the most noble form of electoral work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u18	Madam President! After all, there has been a great deal of progress in the funding of the elections: compared to the wild times of the past, when the campaigns were huge and the announcements what happens, we have now gone for a lot better. I do not know when it comes to the campaign ceiling and spending money in general, the expensive campaigns — yes, of course, even in my own constituency, the prices of campaigns are going to be high and even absurdly high for many candidates, but it has still not been a guarantee to get through. There's more to it than just money. Of course, if we are really starting to think about the whole, then we should also look at the other background, the other media publicity. Different candidates are given a different kind of publicity in relation to each other in the media, and we should look at this as a whole as much as we look at it more widely. But the report is good and the Audit Committee has done a good job.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u19	Madam President! I would like to thank the Audit Committee for a good report and for considering the campaign ceiling and mandatory prior notification. I put a written question to the Minister of Justice on this subject and received an answer on this Easter week. In short, he does not think this is timely at the moment, because it is these things that have been laid down, reforms that have been made, but he also sees it as worthy of consideration, and that too seems to me to be a good thing. I myself am thinking of taking a legislative initiative on this, because I believe that there is strong support across party boundaries. I will also take up ideas on this issue, on the details of what would be put into such an initiative, but I would base it on this written question that I did. And Mr Lindtman, it is on this written question that I asked the parliamentary group to reflect on this issue. Yes, this is an issue that would be worth considering across party lines.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u20	Madam President! At present, I believe that the electoral funding law is reasonably well-functioning. Of course, we will never get to a situation that is perfect. There's always a few flaws. But thank you to the committee for a good report and to the President for a good statement of reasons, a presentation. This proposal by Mr Essayah that this campaign ceiling should be considered and examined in the parliamentary working group is a good one. That is something that I warmly support. But as far as this possible task force is concerned, I would like to say that when we set a campaign ceiling, that credible campaign ceiling will, of course, only work when it has some sort of control. And I have not yet been able to come up with such a rule in this world that someone would not by some means go around.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u21	I will give you two more answers. For reasons of timetable, we have to end this debate today. But the two people are Mr Östman and Mr Heinäluoma.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u22	Thank you, Madam Speaker! In fact, I do not understand this debate that we should now change the electoral funding law because everyone is on the same track. After all, we are not in the same line, not even in this Chamber. During Question Time, big parties get five times more free visibility than small parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u23	Mr President! I would like to thank those present for an extremely lively and good debate. It is good that, although this basic system seems to work, we are sensitive and wonder whether there is still room for improvement here. As far as the current system is concerned, we now have quite clear rules under which aid should be declared. It is accompanied by aid which is money, but also by aid in its non-financial form. If it is not ordinary volunteer work, it is subject to reporting obligation. So, of course, the usual voluntary work is that volunteers distribute Leaflets. We don't want those hours to count and we don't want them up. It's perfectly permissible. If volunteers are involved in working with a soup cannon, that too is perfectly permissible and should not be criminalised.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-01-ps-31.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
