ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. Let's move on to the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u2	Mr President, Fru talman! This is an important issue, namely the report by the Audit Office on electoral funding. And as we all remember, a few years ago we were in a rather deep crisis of confidence in electoral funding, and in that way too it is important to stop at this point. A lot of good has happened since the events in 2008. We have at least partially restored public confidence in the political system, but there are still some shortcomings that need to be discussed. As can be seen from this report of the Audit Office, in 2015 all notifying parties have submitted their notifications and the authorities have no objections to it. So many things have gone in the right direction. But there is one thing I particularly want to raise to the debate: As we all know, political power is shared through elections, and the elections are being conducted with a rather dense rhythm. Financial investments in the elections have grown quite significantly in recent years. From 2011 to 2015, the total cost of the elections increased by more than EUR 1 million and, even for an individual reporting obligation, the costs increased by more than EUR 5000. Even now, on the average, this Parliament has had to spend EUR 33000 to be elected. It is quite clear that this increase in costs is a threat to a healthy democracy and equality of nominations. The Government has announced that it will bring a proposal for the construction of the provincial administration in this country this spring, and in that way we will become, in addition to municipal decision-making and state decision-making, the third important level of decision-making, to which it is also intended to elect the decision-makers with a personal election system. It is quite clear that this will also contribute to increasing the spending of both candidates and parties in elections. And, as I said, the situation already in place is a threat to a healthy democracy and to a level playing field. I believe that, in the context of the construction of this regional government, we should now also discuss what measures we could take to curb the increase in the cost of election campaigns and how we could thereby restore democracy. I therefore hope that, during this spring, we will be discussing not only the establishment of a regional government but also the electoral system associated with it. Personally, I think it would be very healthy for our electoral legislation to be developed in the direction of considering some kind of roofs for the applicant-specific support lines. In any case, my main message is that a lot of good has been done, but this situation has changed and the shortcomings that continue to arise with regard to this election funding are growing with regard to these campaigns. There's no reason to end that conversation. And let me remind you that in the last parliamentary elections there were more than EUR 100,000 of candidate campaigns, and everyone here understands that it significantly limits what kind of tasks can become the decision-maker in the Finnish Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u3	Madam President! Mr Feldt-Ranta drew attention to the fact that we may have very expensive campaigns. And it is true that it makes it possible for those who either have a great deal of financial resources to carry out the campaign themselves or those who have a very good chance of obtaining electoral funding to put themselves in a stronger position in this light. But, Mr Feldt-Ranta, it is not quite so clear. There is also, for example, a view that there are candidates with a very strong public career background. And if you think about how a new candidate could compete on an equal footing with a candidate who has made his career, for example, on television or otherwise visible in public,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u6	Mr President! Mr Feldt-Ranta, you mentioned this that there would be some ceiling on the amount of aid. I do not know whether you mean that money will be supported or that money will come from your own pocket, so the whole campaign funding would then be something big. The idea itself is all right in the sense that it seeks to get some kind of rats into it so that the money would not be spent much, but it will then disparate this campaign, as Mrs Zyskowicz mentioned. And one important observation, which at least I myself have noticed during these campaigns, is that it is very easy for a candidate to fail to report when they do not need to be reported, for example, such as all voluntary contributions that do not come in the form of money. They should be assessed in some way in the election money announcement, but for some reason I know a great many people who receive various subsidies from companies and others and who do not report them. So then, if this kind of roof is made, it leads to such hidden election campaign support, which is still not announced. I think this has been a good direction. It's obvious now, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u7	Mr President! I think Mr Feldt-Ranta drew attention to the real problem, the increase in campaign costs. We all know here that the parliamentary election campaign costs a passenger car, for others it is Lada, for others it is a Mercedes, and it is everything in between. But I believe that the idea raised by Mrs Feldt-Ranta that campaigns would have such a general ceiling — it was also the position of the Greens when this electoral funding legislation was reformed — would provide a sensible guideline which would allow everyone to carry out the campaign they wanted, but would avoid these excesses. Perhaps the thing that comforts us is, of course, that when you look at the election list of results, at least these people who have gone on the most expensive campaigns will not always be elected so that money alone does not get into Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u8	Madam President! Yes, Mrs Feldt-Ranta has just brought up the correct setting. What we can do here is that we can create an opportunity in legislation to constrain it so that money alone cannot come here. Mr Zyskowicz raised a good point: whether we are ever on an equal footing. We certainly are not because of the media publicity, but certainly the people in the province, who may have also worked for the small people, may be in the same position as those in the public sector — they need to be a little mirrored in that way. But what is important is that we can look at whether money alone can be made and rode. That is what we have the prerequisites for, and that is something we can address. I do not know what Mr Niikko meant by the fact that there is hidden support which is not reflected in the funding of the elections. I think it's a violation of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u9	Mr President! Of course, I am not going to snitch on anything — if I can use a language like this, which I used in my youth — but for some reason I know how normal this election struggle was back in the day, not in the last parliamentary elections, to go a little further, when these advertising spots were obtained with money bought by companies. They were never reported anywhere. After all, this election blundering was in public at the time, and many of them burned their hands, but I claim that more than half of them were still unresolved. What I would now like to call for here — and I would not go so far as to constrain it if my own money is spent or honestly donated — is, for example, whether the Social Democrats are prepared to give up the use of tax resources in the electoral battle, such as support from trade unions, which is money collected from the workers and used for it, from the vehicles and premises of the trade unions and others — they are constantly being used, or from the companies that are close to them. So we could give up this kind of subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u10	Mr President! Mr Feldt-Ranta did indeed raise an issue which was essential to the functioning of democracy. As the campaigns become more expensive, the advertising facilities become more expensive, the campaigns become more expensive, and then the power of money begins to grow in politics, and this is obviously not a good thing for the true voice of democracy and the electorate. This campaign ceiling has been mentioned in the past, to which Mr Haavisto referred here. That would be one option which is also used in many countries to set a ceiling on how much money can be spent. It does not prevent voluntary work and grass-roots activities. The Tarast Group, which looked at these and put forward proposals to amend the electoral funding rules in 2008, put forward a proposal, and that package of proposals also includes this campaign ceiling for the use of the electoral money. Then the only thing happened was that this part, this campaign ceiling for election money, fell out of it in the course of the discussion of the government at the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u11	Mr President! Of course, it is also important to say that financial support for political action in itself is very acceptable and there is no reason to disapprove of it. It is very good that individual citizens, various organisations and companies want to support the democratic decision-making system in our country. But then the key question is whether, on the one hand, there will be a debt of gratitude between the financiers and individual decision-makers, and I certainly think that if the aid amounts are massive, as has now been seen in some cases in tens of thousands of euros.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u14	Mr President! Here it was pointed out what profession each has represented before coming to this house. I guess now the wider this spectrum is, the better it is. And the truth is, however, that no matter how much publicity you have gained because of your former profession, those voices come close. No one in the other constituency, for example, is able to use votes. As far as this support for campaigns is concerned, I do think that everyone can spend their own money just as he wants and sees and makes the place worth it — whether he gets it or not. But it would be worth having a decent roof that what you can take from the outside.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u17	Mr President! I now feel that some of my colleagues have forgotten what we have already laid down. Representative Feldt-Ranta spoke of massive subsidies. After all, we have a roof and roofs in all elections about how much one person can give to one candidate. After all, this has just been an attempt to ensure that such massive subsidies are no longer possible, thus eliminating the potentially unhealthy dependence on the sponsor. I am not going to say absolutely no to this kind of campaign failures, because, of course, I too have terrible campaign costs. However, I am not quite sure that they are constantly rising, because it is this network that also enables campaigning in a cost-effective way. I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that setting up and funding this campaign ceiling is not the only factor that puts candidates in unequal positions. We are always and always will be in an unequal position in relation to each other, depending on a wide variety of factors.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u18	Mr President! I think this campaign ceiling is a very well-considered idea, but I am putting forward an idea that I did not notice in this debate. After all, these reports and statements on the election campaign have now been tightened up, which is a good thing, but I think it would also be good if the announcement of the election funding to the public announcement which can be viewed on the Internet by any citizen should also be made available to anyone who has passed through — all those who are now under its obligation — also to report on what part of the campaign this has been used. It is now quite possible, for example, that a large poster campaign or someone else is left out. It does not appear in these statements of accounts which are provided to the National Audit Office, nor in the campaign costs indicated therein. ♪ So this is what I'm talking about ♪
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u19	Madam President! I would also take this motion very seriously that we should have some sort of campaign ceilings. It is quite true that election costs have increased from election to election and huge sums of money are already being spent. However, I also think that democracy is more important than the power of money, and that is why I think it is very important to return to this thinking. The reference was made here to this working group at Tarast, where this proposal was already on the table at the time. It was a shame that the government did not take it to its own performance. The Social Democrats supported it. But now that there are new good reasons for returning to this issue, I certainly hope that we can have a serious debate on this. I welcome the fact that Mr Zyskowicz, for example, said that you do not say an absolute no. So let us think about this important issue raised by Mrs Feldt-Ranta.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u20	Madam President! Now, if I may be a little sarcastic, the campaign ceiling is one more forced law. We have an electoral law with very clear boundaries, as Mr Zyskowicz has well said. There are limits to how much you can take from where. I do not see any justification for limiting the ceiling and the possibility of everyone wanting to spend their own money. One aspect is that it would be another way to weaken the operating conditions of commercial media in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u21	Madam President! If you think about how to get everyone on the same line, then I assume that it is good to have equal opportunities — equality of opportunity — the result of which, of course, cannot be achieved here, otherwise each party would have the same number of people here. What I support is mandatory prior notification. It would be perfectly logical for the electorate to know in some way what funding is available to the candidate who is then going to vote. On the other hand, this campaign ceiling for election funding — one may wonder whether it distinguishes between external and own money. But if I were to harshly say it, I would say that in municipal elections, for example, the ceiling is 20,000, in parliamentary elections is 60,000, in European elections is 100,000. Let's put the roof high and the walls wide. Let's not go too far, but I'd put some kind of boundaries. On the other hand, I also raise the debate that elections should also be able to be combined. There will be an intolerable situation in 2019: the European elections and the parliamentary elections almost at the same time. I am very concerned about the interest that will then come from both the candidates and the voters in the European elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u22	Madam President! Many times during this part-session, I have not agreed so strongly with what Mr Elo has now said. In my opinion, a very good starting point is that prior notification would be the measure of transparency, in which case even the electorate, when deciding to vote, will be able to determine the starting point for the funding of its candidate, so that he can weigh on the situation from which the funding came and then, of course, wonder, with confidence in his own candidate whether the commitments have been made or not, and to see, on the whole, what is the orientation of that representative in his own political framework as well, whether he has only adopted the party position when he has received the funding from there and there. But a very good view, and I strongly support that view.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u23	Madam President! In this debate, it has been widely stated that, irrespective of the party's position, there is support for something to be done to curb the funding of these individual election campaigns. In what way it is done, there are, of course, several options, but I also support this, which Mrs Elo has already mentioned before the elections, that compulsory prior notification of the total amount of electoral funding would be made. But in the same context, I am in favour of this campaign ceiling, because when more elections are put together, the building of electoral funding for an individual candidate will be difficult and, in particular, will put candidates in a very unequal position, largely depending on the channels that each candidate has to participate in this own election funding, because we representatives and certainly future representatives will also have the background for much of their own publicity, which Mrs Zyskowicz also referred to in her own speech. Someone's got a face that they've known before, and someone else's.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u24	Mr President! In fact, those pre-notifications are in some way only indicative when I have looked at these final declarations. In other words, they do not necessarily get the truth or give the right basis to judge even what the candidate’s actual campaigning package will be. I personally very much regret the fact that the debate which was referred to here and which took place in public some years ago only made it difficult for us to commit criminal acts in support of this candidate, that is to say, even those small streams, it will be very difficult for an unknown candidate to get together. These amounts of euro, which are here in the law, have been quite sufficient, and they have not come close to building their own electoral budget. That I would only wish that the culture would come again in Finland, that everyone, according to their own abilities, would then support their own candidate and not be regarded as such an unpleasant activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u25	Mr President! Election funding must be very transparent, and it was great to say that there was nothing to blame in the last parliamentary elections in the election declarations of representatives. But I have some doubts about this if companies, trade unions and trade unions provide funding for the representatives. It should be the case that the ceiling could be one possibility, but, above all, this external funding always imposes conditions, so that so-called free money and support rarely exist, but requires something. And then this advance notice proposed by Mrs Elo could be very important, and it should be considered whether it would be the answer to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u26	Madam President! Having followed this debate in committee, it occurred to me that how much money is actually being made available to the tax authorities. I think Mr Niikko pointed out that this money could then become an input and be excluded from these calculations. In my opinion, this is a very dubious and apparently generally accepted way of avoiding taxes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u27	Mr President! I myself thought to ask for the floor when it is always criticised in this Chamber that the opposition is never supported by the good ideas of the representatives of the government parties. In this respect, I can fully identify with what Mr Elo has already said about this compulsory prior notification, which would be a very good thing. I'm sure everyone will think that before election day, the person who wanted to come here would have to know how much money that campaign took. If you don't know, then there must be some skills that are a little off. The second then relates to this unification of the elections. After all, it is a bit amazing that when people in Finland are afraid that elections cannot be combined, there can be three elections in the same day in that western neighbour — a person can vote both for a candidate at municipal level, for a candidate at regional level and then for a candidate at national level, and the turnout is even higher — and we have had terrible difficulties in Finland in joining these elections, and now it has become clear in this debate that the new regional elections will come to this end. It would make sense for us to move forward on these two points.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u28	Madam President! In my opinion, this current electoral funding system at the current level is very good. It ensures a reasonable degree of transparency. After the election campaigns have really gone as expensive as they have gone, I cannot say now whether or not it should be restricted. Now, anyway, this world has just gotten this way, and that's it. On the other hand, if a certain amount of planning is required in advance, how this election funding is to be implemented, everyone knows their own money, whether they have to take out a loan, but the problem arises from the fact that a person or a community has promised these candidates election funding, it will soon lead to the fact that if that funding does not come, then after the election a terrible fishball will begin, that you announced in advance that so much money will come from there, and then it will not come. That's a huge explanation for the explanations. What are we going to do about this? What are we going to do about it? The current system, which takes account of everything, is sufficiently transparent and good. If we try to be more pious than the pious ones themselves, that road will soon lead to a dead end that no one wants to end up in.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u29	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz made a good speech about this campaign ceiling in the sense that we are never equal. Of course, it is good to think about it, but then, must its roof, for example, be the same in every constituency? For example, we have a new, large constituency in south-eastern Finland, so it did put a whole new perspective on how much money there should be. And I can say that my starting points, for example, were not tasty, but indeed with my own money went and, fortunately, we got in now, not everyone got in. Of course, with regard to this mandatory prior notification, I agree with Mr Elon and Mrs Myllykoski and Mrs Räsänen that I think it would be a good change, because the total amount and the source are well known before the advance vote, and the voters will then be able to look at what kind of things at that point.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u30	Mr President! Really good points in every speech I make here. I, too, find it quite humanly tragic that some people take up EUR 100,000 and then do not get away with it. That I would be in favour of such a restriction, at least for this borrowing. Then I would like to mention from this Yle that, even during the last election, all these willing candidates were made such a video, and that is, in my opinion, the right direction to give everyone the opportunity to advertise themselves. And especially when every Finn pays the Yle tax, I would in fact like to extend even more their responsibility for such advertising to everyone on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u31	Mr President! There have been very good speeches here, and I could actually pick up where Mrs Ruoho has just left off. I think that this practice, which has now been in the parliamentary elections and in the European elections, has given all candidates the opportunity to present themselves on a level playing field, is very good. I think the advance announcement is something that would be good: before the election, the voters would know where the funding came from. Yes, if this were regulated, of course we would also be able to plan our own campaigns well enough in time to be able to report them in time. I think that this ceiling is worth considering and I am sure that it should be considered per constituency, because there are quite a few differences. It is clear, however, that the campaigns have become so big that it will limit the number of candidates and then, of course, the passing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u32	Madam President! A member of the Audit Committee, Mr Lehti, gave a good speech on the subject. The matter has been discussed in the Audit Committee, talked about it quite a lot, and my own opinion is that this kind of openness of course reduces corruption, that should be pursued. The campaign ceiling, I do not know, is in a way a good idea, but if you think that campaigns across Finland are completely different prices — if you think of advertising, for example — it can be a little difficult to do in that sense. It occurred to me that, when we used our own money rather than other people’s money, as I understand it — as well as the magazine’s money — could we think about this as a kind of income-raising cost, could it be reduced? Then perhaps people would spend more of their own money than others.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u33	Mr President! After all, this debate has shown that there is a great deal of concern here that these costs have come out of hand and that such an economic arms race has arisen. It is a clear threat to equality and democracy. Representative Elo made a good speech, a constructive speech, that we should strive for this kind of equality of opportunity, and in this debate have come many good suggestions about what those means could be. In any case, we need some sort of restraint. As Mr Heinäluoma explained earlier in his speech, this matter has been examined and the experts, led by Minister Tarast, have recommended and suggested:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-12-ps-7.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
