ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u1	I ask the representatives to meet to attend the Cathedral in front of the National Library on Tuesday, Independence Day, at 11.40 a.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. In a letter to Parliament dated 21.11.2016, Representative Olli Rehn has requested exemption from the post of representative from 1 February 2017 after being elected as a member of the Board of Directors of the Bank of Finland. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u3	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 4. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the UaVM 10/2016 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u4	Madam President! A few months ago Nurlan Nigmatulin, President of the Lower House of the Kazakh Parliament, visited here in Finland, and I had the honour of hearing his thoughts on relations between Finland and Kazakhstan and also the EU. This is significant in the sense that for Finland Kazakhstan is one of the largest trading partners among the countries of Central Asia and Kazakhstan. The EU is the largest trading partner; one third of Kazakhstan's exports go to the EU. After all, Finland will celebrate its 100th anniversary celebrations next year, and Kazakhstan will celebrate its 25th anniversary celebrations this year. Finland will also participate in the Expo 2017 event next summer in Astana, Kazakhstan, and will thus be strongly involved in trade in this important area. Furthermore, Mr President, Kazakhstan is very closely associated with its neighbour China. Kazakhstan is an important country on the route to what is known as the new silk road from China for the transport of products by road to Central Europe and also here to Northern Europe. Linked to this by our membership of the EU and the Baltic link to Finland both by sea and by road via Via Baltica, this connection with Kazakhstan and all these who are along this silk road is also very important to us. I think it is very important that this is progressing as planned and in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to move the other debates outside the Chamber. Mr Skinner is now on the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u6	Mr President! Central Asia and Kazakhstan are an important partner both for Finland and for Europe as a whole. We launched a new friendship group in Parliament, a friendship group in Central Asia, precisely for these reasons, at the initiative of the current Minister, Mr Mykkänen. Mr Elo has already raised a number of essential points, but I would like to point out that our long-term goal of connecting from Helsinki to Astana, the capital of Kazakhstan, is in the process of becoming a reality and, at the same time, complements the vast network of flights which Finn-air is already maintaining. At the same time, I would like to say that the Astana World Exhibition in June will be a major challenge for us in Finland, but at the same time the opportunity to demonstrate our expertise in Kazakhstan, Central Asia and beyond, worldwide.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u7	Mr President! The leadership of Finland's foreign policy has long invested a great deal in this Kazakhstan connection, and regular political interaction has been established. President Niinistö made an important state visit a few years ago, followed not only by visits by ministers but also by active contact with Parliament. It is clear that, economically speaking, Kazakhstan offers us a great deal of potential — it is about high technology, especially environmental technology, but also the mining industry — and then Kazakhstan is also interested not only in our important export products but also in the essential construction trees of our society. When it is said that the economy is important and has a lot of unused opportunities, we can be pleased that the new Finnair flight connection to be opened next June will certainly intensify the interaction, and Kazakhstan will constitute a clear bridgehead for us in Central Asia. This world fair is another important issue. I am pleased that the current government has made the decision to also assemble the Finnish department at this Astana World Exhibition. Especially in difficult economic times is it important that we are present in the world. As far as the economy is concerned, it is equally important to say that in dealings we must also highlight aspects of civil rights and the building of civil society and human rights. Dialogue must be wide-ranging, and Parliament should also feel its own responsibility in promoting this whole chain of communication.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u8	Madam President! I think it is important that this cooperation in Kazakhstan is developed and that this partnership is strengthened. In 2012, I was able to participate in the delegation of the Committee on Defence when we made a committee visit to Kazakhstan and its neighbouring Kyrgyz region. Here. Kazakhstan did leave a good and evolving picture there in Central Asia. These links for closer cooperation were launched at that time. There was a visit of Presidents around the same time, then the President also visited the country and so on. When we want to make our exports more efficient, we want our own economy to grow, we need these partnerships around the world, and these developing countries in Central Asia are a key part of it. Health know-how is one of the things we could take there more, as well as building know-how. When the country invests heavily and the country builds internally, Finnish expertise and engineering skills are needed there. This world exhibition, which comes into the country and in which Finland also participates, is one good example to bring our companies out in a strong way. I hope that many business delegations will find their way to Kazakhstan and will therefore be able to present their own business activities, improve their own exports and thus the Finnish economy as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u9	Madam President! Kazakhstan is surprisingly poorly known in Finland. It is a geographically larger area than Europe as a whole. It has been missed, but in Finnish there would be a great deal of potential. This poor level of public awareness leads to the fact that it does not come into the discussion group often enough, but it is an excellent opportunity for Finnish business activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u10	Madam President! As far as Kazakhstan is concerned, it is also important, in terms of foreign policy and security policy, to note that Kazakhstan is a future member of the UN Security Council and therefore also, of course, an important partner for Finland in terms of foreign policy. With regard to this agreement, which is now under discussion, it is also important to note that these trade issues have also been negotiated with a view to Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO. If you think more about this economic significance, the value of EU exports to Kazakhstan last year was about EUR 6.2 billion, and it is actually made up of things that are relevant to Finland: machinery, equipment, goods. If you think of machines and equipment in particular, Finland will of course play a very central role in this. Similarly, Kazakhstan became mainly oil and gas in the EU, but an even more significant amount of EUR 16.2 billion. All in all, you can say, as Mr Lehti has said here, that this country, Kazakhstan, and this agreement is more important than what is necessarily understood in Finland. And when this is truly linked to this new silk road project, which is once again one of the most important projects in the People's Republic of China — a project that comes in logistics to an area where 4.4 billion people live on earth — and when these projects, in terms of value of trade, can be even trillions of euros, then you understand the potential this offers for a small country such as Finland, to which even the smaller slice of the trillion is a very important economic issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u11	Mr President! It is very important that: Finland will find new trading partners and that the relationship between the European Union and Kazakhstan will also be effective and developed. I would have drawn attention to something that Mr Heinäluoto, in his own speech, pointed out that human rights issues, non-governmental issues, political democracy are also important issues to follow up on. I think Kazakhstan is one of the countries in which the President has received 97% support in the election. That's nice in itself, when the President has broad support, but certainly in this democratic aspect of this kind of transition economy of the country is still to be developed. I think we should also keep our eyes open when Finnish people are operating in the world, that these NGOs' freedoms, journalists' rights to action and the development of political democracy are being given attention. These are also the challenges we will face in Kazakhstan.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u12	Mr President! Mr Haavisto spoke quite well, and one of the tasks of the friendship group in Central Asia is to hold this debate, the dialogue on human rights at many levels, not just on trade issues. I would like to remind you, however, that Kazakhstan has made good, fine policies — among other things, it has managed to state that it is currently non-nuclear. That, too, is a signal in this world situation. We must remember that Kazakhstan is already part of the Eurasian Union, which includes not only Kazakhstan but also Russia and Belarus. Why is this such a big deal? Because, in this world situation, in this world where we live, for example, in the case of Russian sanctions — EU sanctions and Russian sanctions — In addition to Belarus, Kazakhstan is a major opportunity for cooperation, even in a difficult situation, with Russia, for example, when it comes to trade.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u13	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order 5. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the basis of the report UaVM 11/2016 vp, a single reading of the Optional Protocol to the Convention will be decided on the basis of a legislative proposal at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u14	Partly for the sole, part of the second reading will be presented in order of 6. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 23/2016 vp, it will be decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u15	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order of 7. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 24/2016 vp, a single reading of the agreement and then a second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u16	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u17	Madam President! Construction supports the fine economic growth of our country. We have had a lot going on in the construction sector, and it is good that these regulatory reductions are now being targeted specifically here. There is a lot of regulation here that you can work on. This is almost zero construction. Personally, I am concerned that this legislation, which is at issue here, may cause us further problems with the mould house, and that is why I want this monitored closely. But at the same time, the government has taken other reform measures in the same land use and building law. The Land Use and Building Act is being reformed, among other things, so that we want to increase the competition in shops, the large units of commerce, and so that more shops can also enter city centres. Village construction is also facilitated, beach construction is facilitated and the transformation of leisure homes into permanent dwellings is also significantly facilitated. One of the key issues in this reform of the Land Use and Building Act is also the change in the role of Ely Centres. We have a situation in time — if you say so — that another official has complained about the decision taken by another official, and we have had a lot of projects that have been stuck with these complaints. That is why I welcome the fact that the government has introduced a proposal to transform the role of ely centres mainly into consultation. In other words, one official would rather advise and guide another official than complain about them. This is certainly very sensible. Mr President! I welcome the fact that the deregulation process is now moving forward with determination.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u18	Madam President! This law comes through the adoption of legislation in the EU and Finland has, for its part, adopted a climate law during the last parliamentary term, which is a framework law, and we have joined the Paris climate agreement. In other words, we will have to improve energy efficiency, among other things, through these framework conditions. What Mr Heinonen has said is this problem of mold, moisture damage, and in the committee we have heard a lot about this. At least it was not possible to demonstrate to us that increasing heat insulation automatically would mean more problems. This bill has been made in such a way that no additional frosting in Finland has been added to what the directive requires.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u19	Mr President! Of course, when the heating costs are set to zero, under these climate conditions, the wall's thickness increases, and then there is always a risk that the moisture drop will reach that thick wall structure and that it will not dry between these almost tight surfaces, and there is, of course, cause for concern. I understand that zero-building in the EU can be done where there is no such temperature variation. The temperature difference between us is perhaps over 50 degrees, perhaps 60 degrees, when we go from a hot day to a very cold day, and when we try to make a house that works ideally in both, then these problems may arise. Fortunately, however, this legislation of ours will continue to provide other means, for example, for ventilation, other than mechanised alternatives, because unfortunately we have had a situation where, quite often, building supervision and the granting of building permits have gone through so-called 'easy' and always called for these heavy measures. I hope that more information will also be used here for this guidance and in-service training, including for those who grant permits. One of the concerns is, of course, what the Committee on Transport and Communications has pointed out, that the increase in the thickness of these walls may also have an impact on the way in which different signals go, for example, in connection with telephones, and I understand that the committee also drew attention to this in its own report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u20	Mr President! Quite rightly, as Mr Heinonen said, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection drew attention to this report and made a statement that Parliament requires action from the government to ensure that the signals go. The Committee on Transport and Communications specifically raised this issue in its own opinion, and that is the point in safety, the word'safety' is what brought it up. Emergency calls have to go, and if there are people with safety bracelets, that connection has to go. In fact, it is between two ministries, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and perhaps the Ministry of the Interior as a third of its share, so it does require government coordination. Risky building, wall thickness and these conclusions came to the conclusion of the committee, and experts told us that when insulation is increased, there is a greater likelihood that the equipment will be more defective. This requires that the equipment that is there should be able to operate and, in turn, requires the residents to be self-employed, supervised, monitored, kept in the diary and then professional guardians in larger housing companies. Clear instructions and journals on what has been done in the house, how it has been maintained should always be required in the case of changing housing. Every single one of us can ask how often, for example, filters have switched to an air-conditioning machine. They are very small things that everyone can influence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u21	Mr President! After all, this law on zero energy is aimed at the energy efficiency of the Paris climate agreement once again at our efforts to combat climate change. The debate has highlighted these signal problems indoors. It is indeed important that this issue is taken into account in terms of safety and, as has been said, cooperation with telecommunications operators and also with the builders is important. We need to work across the industry lines to get these signals going. As far as mould construction or mould houses are concerned, there is now also a provision for guidance on the quality of construction, i.e. when it comes into effect, that all buildings, for example, must be protected during their construction. This problem, which has been the case at the construction stage when houses get wet, would disappear. This is absolutely good regulation and a good attempt at how far the Ministry of the Environment has looked in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u22	Madam President! Of course, we must try to remember that there are other possibilities than increasing the thickness of the walls. Yes, it should be clear to the horde that if the property that is built is able to use renewable energy itself, such as geothermal heat and solar energy — that is, it uses this geothermal system and can be used for that energy produced by the sun — and this kind of building is 98% dependent on its own energy, then it should be able to reconcile it with this zero-building thinking. It would be important that the thickness of the walls is not the only factor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u25	Mr President! With regard to this construction, the point of view that Mr Heinonen has pointed out is that not everyone necessarily wants mechanical ventilation, and this law does not rule out the possibility of still building buildings with gravitational ventilation. So it's possible. Another thing that has not yet come up is the construction of wood. We were assured that it is still possible to build wood, and this should, in fact, make it easier to build solid wood, which then, of course, involves these aspects, as Mrs Myllykoski also pointed out, how healthy it is, breathing and so away. In other words, this regulation is not as coercive and directing as you might think.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-02-ps-125.u26	Mr President! That is exactly what Mr Kiuru said, namely that the construction of wood and, in particular, the construction of solid wood, which is an important part of the Finnish building tradition, has been well taken into account in this proposal. After all, in this proposal the benchmarks for wall construction are not to be changed, i.e. this goes on with the previous practice. Then I have to say that energy regulations are being prepared side by side with the requirements for moisture safety, indoor air and ventilation, and this will actually enable these various technical issues to be coordinated at the same time. This really is an attempt to take account of these concerns, which are really appropriate, of these, unfortunately, large moldy vacations in Finland.
