ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. Next, I would ask those who wish to ask a question to register by pressing the P button and standing up. I would remind Members that the questions are addressed to the relevant Minister for Sectors. The responsible ministers will therefore answer these questions in the first instance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u2	Congressman Mika Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u3	Mr President! The generations of our last wars have paid an incalculable price for the independence of our country. Fronters, lotas and men and women who have worked hard on the home front are deeply respected by all of us Finns and have earned this many times as much. In the years of the fate of our country, hundreds of thousands of Finns defended our country so that we could preserve the Nordic social order and so that Finland could live and its people could colonize our country on future generations. Today, more than 20,000 veterans of our wars live among us. Their average age is 92 years. Mr President! Next year, we celebrate our independence on a hundred-year scale. That is a particular reason to respect our generations of veterans and their sacrifices. Instead, the government has proposed a reduction in the pensions of these honorary citizens by reducing the front supplement. I ask Prime Minister Soin: would this not be a place for reflection? Are you prepared to cancel this unreasonably war veteran's pension?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u4	Madam President! What Mr Kari said about veterans in our wars was valuable and right. That's not two words. Our independence has been saved with heavy sacrifices by veterans of our wars, and our country has been rebuilt together with the support of them and the home front women. This, which you are referring to, is, of course, regrettable. The government has made a decision that when inflation checks are not managed in a way that is not normally the way they have been handled, when inflation is not there, this will then be cut by this way. That is where you are right. This is very regrettable,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u5	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u6	Madam President! It is good that the services to be taken home are being increased. But it is good to remember that not all veterans live at home, and this does not justify the government cutting the pensions of veterans of our wars by reducing the front supplement. Mr President! Deputy Prime Minister Soini, your government's proposal to cut the pension for veterans is a false message to our honourable citizens. Even the chairman of the largest parliamentary group, the central parliamentary group, Antti Kaikkonen, had to admit two weeks ago that the government's cut is unreasonable and must be cancelled. Deputy Prime Minister, if the government does not withdraw its proposal, will the government allow Parliament to withdraw?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u7	Madam President! Unfortunately, these front supplements are on the same line as pensions, guarantee pensions and national pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u10	Madam President! Deputy Prime Minister and Government! You are also targeting the most vulnerable veterans. They are veterans who receive extra front support and who earn very little income, and their health is the weakest. They will receive a full national pension, an additional front allowance, a veteran supplement and the senior care allowance of the pensioner. Their position is the weakest, and they are subjected to the most severe cuts the government is making because of these indices. Now, in honor of the veterans and the coming year of celebration, could the government not cancel these cuts from the veterans?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u11	The Minister of State is Minister Mattila. He'll answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u12	Madam President! Minister, of course. Mattila, on behalf of the whole government, cannot answer what is withdrawn, and then as far as the matter is concerned, as far as Parliament is concerned, I appreciate the parliament and what is found unanimously there, including the government parties. But, as has already been pointed out, in the centenary year, when Finland is 100 years old, veterans have been given 40 million credits for the services to be taken home and also for the rehabilitation of their facilities, and veteran organisations have thanked for this. As compensation, the disadvantage rate of the war-qualified is being reduced from 15% to 10%. But as I said, the government will decide and finally the parliament will decide what happens to these budget laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u13	Mr President! You, the deputy Prime Minister, did not answer the fundamental question of whether it would be possible to return to this instance in the parliamentary debate, which has now been raised during this Question Time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u16	Madam President! I will continue to say: firstly, thank you to the original questioner for this patriotic speech, and I say that, during the centenary year, millions of euros are being added to the plant rehabilitation of veterans and to the services to be taken home. This disadvantage rate is being reduced, and I understand that the veteran organisations have been grateful for this. What happens in this Parliament, then, I appreciate what Parliament will do when the budgets are dealt with, will be put on the table.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u17	Mr President! Indeed, we owe an extremely great debt of gratitude to this generation, who was willing to put its own health and life at risk in the defence of Finland. That is why the idea that we are cutting off the livelihoods of veterans in the year of independence seems rather difficult to understand, and the public feedback has also been quite inconvenient. This is not a big amount, but it is a question of principle and, as the veterans themselves say, of appreciation. This could be done, for example, by taking these few hundred thousand euros for the centenary of independence, which spends nearly 20 million on various events. Today is the birthday of Parliament’s Vice-President, Mr Satose. He's a patriotic man.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u18	Madam President! Mr Heinäluoma knows things and apparently also knows the anniversary of Vice-President Satose. I can congratulate him sincerely, my Sastamala tribe brother — all credit to you. Of course, we regard the budget as a whole, and it is clear that the principle here is more important than money, but I am still referring to the increase in the total income, subsidies and compensatory allowances received by veterans.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u19	Madam President! War veterans are our honorable citizens, and yes, we must ensure that all of them receive the care they deserve from this society. They have fought for us in the past for independence. The brother homes of the war-affairs have done important work over the years, but now the transition period is also going there, so that because of the high middle age, new customers and customer groups have also begun to think there, and in this regard I would like to ask: what kind of measures are being taken to safeguard the future of the brothers' homes in the government to ensure that all those who deserve rehabilitation can continue to do so and that resources can be found there? In addition, when the average age begins to be high, our veterans for more than 93 years will no longer be so important as to what the disability rate of the MPC is, but everyone deserves rehabilitation. What measures does the government have in view of the fact that other veteran groups will also be able to access rehabilitation in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u20	Mr President! Important thing, and rehabilitation is actually on Minister Rehula's property. But I say so much here that a broad-based committee has been set up for the overall reform of rehabilitation and it has recently started its work, so I'm sure these greetings will go there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u21	Mr President! The cold values of this government hit many pensioners, senior citizens and veterans of our wars. For example, cuts in small pensions, reduced reimbursements of medicines, increased customer fees, and, in addition, a tightening of the carer’s size. Do you have any information on the combined effect of all of these on a low-income pensioner? This is a rather harsh language of respect for the elderly, and for the Left Alliance this is unacceptable. Minister, how do you expect the elderly to cope after these cuts?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u22	Mr President! Yes, now it is important to consider what is what is left under the line, what is the purchasing power. It is important that we maintain those safety nets: income support, housing allowance, and we also have a cap on medicines. The roof of the medicine is going down a little bit. Income support was frozen from index checks. We also have different types of low incomes, and I warmly support, for example, that we should find out what these Finnish low incomes are, for example, pensioners living alone. Here is a group of low incomes, veterans. They have now been offered this budget, which has added appropriations to institutional rehabilitation and reductions in the level of disadvantage. But we do need a debate on what is Finnish poverty and how we can tackle it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u24	Mr President! The Veterans' cause will never grow old, not as long as one of them is still with us. I am very happy and sure that all the parties represented here today will feel the veterans' cause and respect the legacy that we all have to bear. It is an honour, it is an inheritance for the country, many years of youth, even permanent health injuries for all of us, for our society, for our prosperity. Now this front-end cut, which I believe is EUR 200,000 as part of this index cut, as has been said, is regrettable, but if I have understood the answers of the ministers correctly now, it is through the lowering of the disadvantage rate of the increase in services to be taken home, and through this plant rehabilitation there are still tens of millions coming in the direction of veterans. So have I correctly understood that the sum of 100 times or more than 100 times the amount to be cut is, however, being directed to veterans?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u25	Madam President! Yes, this is the sum budgeted for our honourable citizens. I would like each of us in every municipality, where perhaps there are different practices in how veterans are cared for, to ask you how you are today, veterans of our wars, how we can help. The budget has now been increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u26	Madam President! We are deeply grateful to the veterans of our wars for our freedom and beautiful country. This additional front surgery is totally unsustainable and must be restored. There has also been talk that rehabilitation services and home-based veteran services do not reach all those who need them or deserve them. I ask the government: has it been established that all veterans receive these rehabilitation services? What about women serving on the front, the lotat — how do they receive these rehabilitation services and the services to be taken home?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u27	Madam President! As I said earlier, the overall reform of rehabilitation committee has just begun its work, and I am sure that this will be part of the review. And I have just said that, yes, we have to ask whether the municipalities are on the same track here. And yes, we can also go and ask ourselves and, as decision-makers, go and see whether this matter has been taken care of in our own municipalities or whether it is better in one of the neighbouring communities and whether we can take the example of doing the same in this neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u28	Madam President! Front veterans as honorary citizens deserve all the respect and care they still need. There are about 17,500 of them among us. For example, when people here are talking about living at home, about 10,000 of them live at home. The Government is now making a significant contribution next year, the centenary year of Finland. More than EUR 40 million will be invested in improving home care for veterans, and that is 200 times the sum of what this loss of front allowance, a few euros per veteran, is. So this relationship and scale should be known to everyone. The government is investing significantly in the services taken home by veterans, which veterans specifically need because of their old age — that is, the help and care they need at home. But I would now like to ask the Minister in charge of this enormous effort: is there sufficient resources to take those services there so that it does not happen that this money will then be returned and not used for it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u29	Mr President! Yes, I quite agree with the questioner that we now have to stop at the question of whether this will materialise at the municipal level, where the veterans are at home. And it is a good thing that this ratio of EUR 200,000 to EUR 40 million has been highlighted. It is time to do so, and as Minister of Responsibility, of course, I accept these greetings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u30	Mr President! Rarely have so many been so indebted to so few as we are now in this situation. Mr President! This is about what kind of signal we want to send in the centenary year, the centenary year. We owe 22,000 still alive veterans and those who have already passed from here to eternity to this year’s anniversary. Mr President! As Mr Kari said there, improving the services to be taken home is a good thing. But less than half of the veterans still live at home, and this does not justify cutting the pensions of our veterans in the form of breast dishes. The government has announced today that it will withdraw the decision on the side of unemployment benefit services. I would now like to ask the Prime Minister if it is really the case that you do not take this decision, that is to say, that we are going to war over the cutbacks of the pensions of veterans.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u31	Madam President! It is good that this debate is taking place, and it is good that everyone is now in favour of the veterans. It was very uplifting to hear the Greens complimenting the lot. It is very good to hear that the Social Democrats are now complimenting the veterans. Sometimes there's a different kind of talk.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u32	Mr President! I was thinking very much about how I can keep myself calm during this speech during the reply of the deputy Prime Minister. I find it incomprehensible that you, Mr Soini, are here accusing the Finns, who have practically saved this country during the war. And I hope that you will answer yes or no: are you prepared to cancel the surgery on this front supplement?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u33	Madam President! It's been a long time if you don't get a straight speech in Finnish.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u41	Madam President! I will answer what you said first. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u42	Next question, Congressman Mikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u43	Madam President! More than 110 churches around Finland have been ringing hospice bells for a week for the victims of Aleppo, and they will continue until Monday, UN Day. A great peace march is also planned for Monday in view of the situation in Syria. We can help those fleeing war and persecution by increasing refugee quotas. Several ministers, most recently Minister Mykkänen, have said publicly that there could be a significant increase in refugee quotas once the situation of the asylum seeker is first brought under control. That is what has been said. Now the situation is under control, but this has not been seen in action. Finland takes fewer refugees from refugee camps. According to the Government's draft budget, the refugee quota is 750. The previous increase for the Syrian war has been removed, even if the situation The situation in Syria has only worsened and the situation in Aleppo is catastrophic. I ask, Minister Risikko: where is the government's proposal for a significant increase in the refugee quota?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u44	Madam President! Thank you for the important question. Now, however, I would like to remind you of your incorrect knowledge that the situation is already under control. We are certainly not in control of this immigration situation. All in all, 36,000 asylum seekers have arrived, and some of them are still waiting for the first decision. I agree with you that once we get the situation under control, we will be able to assess this refugee quota with completely new eyes, but at the moment we do not have the opportunity to do so. We have no idea what is happening in Turkey. If something happens in Turkey that violates the agreement, we have a different situation here. I think it is wisdom for us to anticipate the situation, but absolutely sure Finland all those agreements, all those commitments to fulfil and we accept our responsibilities on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u45	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u46	Madam President! The number of asylum seekers has decreased significantly. We are talking about quite different figures from what we talked about last autumn, and the forecasts seem to be quite in control at the moment, given these global crises. We know that the creation of legal routes will help people who are fleeing war and persecution and undermine human smuggling, which is a major problem. One of these legal measures, along with an increase in the refugee quota, is to facilitate family reunification. However, the government has made family reunification virtually impossible and has been working on further tightening up. My question is: will the government address and facilitate family reunification in order to provide a legal and safe way for refugees to arrive in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u47	Madam President! First of all, I would like to comment on the fact that we should have the opportunity to take it from those camps. I fully agree that it would be best if we could then, in future, match who we are able to take here and help the most distressed people who are currently there under camp conditions. Yeah, that's right. But we also have immigrants who come here on their own. Now you are talking about this family reunification, and now we have to remember that last spring, when we made these tightening ups, we were exactly in line with the whole of Europe. Finland does not want to be in any way more attractive than any country. We have agreed on this together at the European arenas, and this is what we are doing in Finland. And the only change we have made to family reunification is that the so-called previously formed families came into this category, not just those,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u48	Madam President! As we know, there are people out there for war and persecution, but also for other reasons. We were very familiar with this when last week, with the Administrative Committee, we visited the refugee situation in the Central Mediterranean. A large number of people who are currently arriving in Italy through Libya, for example, in chaos, come from sub-Saharan Africa. Of course, it is difficult for us from Finland to directly influence what is happening in these chaotic and climate change-stricken countries, but there is one way, and that is development aid. I would like to ask Minister for Development Mr Mykkäs: how do you see Finland's potential to contribute to social stability in sub-Saharan Africa so that this root cause of migration can be better controlled?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u49	Mr President! A good question from Mrs Parviainen, and a very important matter. Last time this morning we have looked through our African country programmes from the very point of view that how we can achieve more there. We are concentrating more country-specific aid specifically on the countries of sub-Saharan Africa, which can be raised to their feet, particularly on water management, waste management, education, where we are strong experts and we can also get the projects through. I believe that even with scarce resources, we have the opportunity to achieve more than before, as only the right ways of directing it even more accurately.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u50	Mr President! Mr Mikkonen and I visited Turkey recently and were able to get to know the situation. After all, Turkey has received between 2.5 and 3 million refugees from Syria, among others, and now the situation in Mosul and Aleppo seems to be quite worrying. Perhaps it seems a little strange that in Finland and Europe, at least the leaders do not talk publicly about how we can receive or at least help the refugees who come out of this situation. I'm sure there's a worse situation to be expected than there's been for a really long time. However, there is also a continuation of the exceptional situation in Turkey, and that too has been very quiet in Finland and Europe. At the moment it seems that Turkish asylum seekers will soon be coming to Finland as well. Why is the Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs silent when human rights are being trampled on in Turkey?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u51	Madam President! The Finnish Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not silent and has not been silent.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u55	Mr President! Immigration policy must be managed and socially fair in all situations. In a larger picture, looking at this situation in Europe, it is clear that this requires cooperation and common rules of play throughout the European Union but, in particular, uniform practices between the Nordic countries. It has now been well pointed out that there have now been some different speeches from the government in relation to this increase in the refugee quota. It has been suggested that it should be increased significantly immediately. The Minister for the Interior here says that once this situation is brought under control, quotas will be increased. I would now have made sure of the Prime Minister's replacement, which is the government's line: is it the case that if and when the situation is brought under control, the government will propose a significant increase in the refugee quota?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u56	Madam President! Indeed, as I have just said, we do not currently have control of how much more is coming to us. We have calmed down at the moment, but just as we have heard from the speakers here, we do not know what is happening in Turkey, we do not know what is happening in African countries. And when you attend meetings of the European Union you get some idea of how difficult the situation is in these countries. We prepare for everything 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. When this calms down, we will then be able to come back to this issue of whether Finland can increase the quota. 1050 has been our normal number, now it's 750. This is the situation at the moment, it is set aside for next year, and certainly we are looking at it because we want to help people in need, but with the rules of the game,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u57	Madam President! First of all, it is worth reminding the opposition that Finland, as the first country to accept more than 600 asylum seekers as intra-EU transfers, shows that we are now shouldering our responsibilities on this issue. The visit of the Administrative Committee to Italy and Malta was an eye-opening experience. For example, 30 people had arrived in Pozzallo’s hotspot the previous week who had not drowned in the Mediterranean but had choked on packed human smugglers’ ships. Trafficking in human beings is a disgusting business in which people's need is turned into a means of earning money. I would have asked the government: what measures are being considered at EU level to address this phenomenon, and how are we planning to stabilise the situation in Libya?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u58	Madam President! This question by Mr Kärnä is absolutely essential. Human smugglers, human traffickers, are the most disgusting scum that benefits from people in need and is willing to make money for them. I have come across these issues in the European Union, for example, when I visited Rome at this rescue operation centre. It is really disgusting that when you start moving from there, you include small children, boys and girls who are pimped out in cities and who can be used in child pornography and, finally, from which organs can be taken. That is certainly not what we are receiving. That is why the government's line is unambiguously to create conditions, asylums under UNHCR, where refugee status can be obtained, and then we can move here and not wander through Europe and expose them to the exploitation of these villains.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u59	Mr President! The quota refugee system, which takes refugees directly from the refugee camps and then integrates them into the municipalities, is much better than these internal transfers from other EU countries. Therefore, the Finnish Government should strongly support this quota refugee system both in its own policy and at EU level. In addition to that refugee crisis in Syria, there is a real danger that this takeover of Mosul will now take place. Isil will lead to a massive refugee crisis. My question is: is the government prepared for this, both for that humanitarian crisis and then for a really large number of refugees? Then how do we do it? Are we prepared to increase the quotas for refugees in that situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u60	Madam President! Just as Mr Räsänen said there, it is a very important so-called specific measure when it comes to choosing and taking it from those camps, because those in the camps are in the most difficult situation in general. But at the moment we do not have such an opportunity, because we have many other visitors here to Finland. Then, as you said there, are we prepared: we are prepared for everything. We have now received a little storm warning from it last autumn, but we are prepared for a much worse situation, which may be before us. That is why we must look at this whole from the point of view of asylum seekers themselves, as well as those with refugee status who already exist in the camps there. We'll look at all of these and we'll be prepared. We are in a much better position than we were last year at this time because we have so much information on this issue and we have good cooperation relations with those European arenas.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u61	Madam President! This is well described as the totally unsustainable humanitarian situation that is currently taking place in Syria and at the borders of Europe. But how has Finland responded to this historic humanitarian crisis? Massive cuts in development cooperation, a reduction in the refugee quota, a reduction in the legal security of asylum seekers and a totally unacceptable obstacle to family reunification. And this is what we call responsibility in a difficult situation here. That's a long way from it. We were asked here earlier how we can deal with this human smuggling, this disgusting phenomenon. There is a very clear answer: creating legal routes for people to safety. This government has done exactly the opposite. Are you going to look again at these difficulties in family reunification that have prevented people from getting to safety? And are you going to open up new ways for people to seek family reunification?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u62	Madam President! Everyone knows that a family is important to a person. And what has been done now, when you always point out that it has been tightened up, has only been tightened in such a way that the rules of family reunification will also extend to those people who have previously formed a family and not only apply to the so-called new families that have been formed after a person has come here and registered as an asylum seeker. The amounts required for living are exactly the same as before, and this kind of law has been in force for many years, and now it has only extended who this applies to. I think that is exactly what has been said in the European arenas. Each application shall be treated individually. Each application is always considered as what is the meaning and what is the family situation there. What is important is that the family as a whole remains united in one way or another.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u63	Next question, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u64	Madam President! Minister of Defence Jussi Niinistö questioned Åland's demilitarised position this weekend. And I don't think it was even an accident shot, because he's been speculating with the island militarisation already in the summer of 2015. Åland has been a demilitarised area for 160 years. This has been confirmed on several occasions by international agreements. Demilitarisation of islands has always been a factor of peace and stability. Finland must defend international law and international agreements to which Finland itself has committed itself. The President of the Republic and the Prime Minister had to correct the statements made by Minister of Defence Niinistö. Mr President! The question now has to be asked: how, Mr Niinistö, are these speeches that call into question the position of Åland sitting in our country's common security policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u65	Madam President! I am not questioning the position of Åland as a demilitarised region. However, as Minister of Defence, it is my job to ensure that the whole country is defended as effectively as possible. Åland is part of Finland, and I wanted to show the fact that it was demilitarized Åland is very challenging to defend but that in the future, when we work together with Sweden, there could be a place where we can work together to improve the safety of Ålanders, but in such a way that the main responsibility for defending Åland always lies with the Finns, as these international agreements, to which Mr Arhinmäki referred, we are bound.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u66	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u67	Madam President! In fact, as you listened to Minister of Defence Niinistö’s answer, it once again highlighted the fact that what if demilitarisation were dismantled? Nordic cooperation, cooperation with Sweden, is a good and worthy thing, but Sweden is not at all enthusiastic about this departure of Minister of Defence Niinistö with regard to Åland, not to mention the hopes expressed for a joint military alliance between countries. It is clear here that the Minister for Defence Niinistö has had one line that President Niinistö of the Republic and also the Prime Minister have had to correct. The question arises as to how the Foreign Minister, Mr Soini, feels about these: is he on the line with the President or is he on the line with the Minister of Defence? And the question arises: how many foreign policy lines can our highest foreign policy leadership have? In Finland, it has generally been considered a good thing that we have a single line, not that there are many lines in the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u68	Madam President! I knew you, Mr. Arhinmäki, would ask this question. That's why I prepared with an exact answer. The established international legal status of Åland has been confirmed in the last Government Foreign and Security Policy Report of the summer, which is being discussed here. The position of Åland has been anchored in international agreements and customary law, and there is no government plan to intervene in this established position. The debate on the defence of the whole of Finland, to which Åland is also part, has once again begun to take a rather miraculous turn in public.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u69	Mr President! The situation in the Baltic Sea has intensified in many ways. A while ago, the Finnish Institute for Foreign Affairs stated in its report that next year Russia will try to question Finland's independence in many ways and that the Government is prepared to do so. The source was the Prime Minister’s Communications Director. Right after this, Foreign Minister Soini said in his own reply that Russia did not question Finland's independence, but after Minister Soin's reply, the same Head of State's Communications came out again and said that Russia is questioning Finland's independence. To whose advantage does such confusion and intimidation serve?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u70	Madam President! In fact, I was very pleased with the written question by Mrs Mustajärvi, to which I replied unequivocally, as you said. The foreign and security policy line of this country will be drawn by the cooperation of the President and Government of the Republic and not by any opinion of the bureaucrat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u71	Värderade fru talman! Försvarsminister Jussi Niinistö problematiserade Senaste helg Ålands demilitarisering. Det var inte första gången han gjorde det. Han konstateride ändå att det var en utrikespolitisk fråga. Sedan dess har republikens President Sauli Niinistö, statsminister Juha Sipilä och utrikesminister Timo Soini klargjort att ingen linjeändring förberetts i frågan. Det är wastebra.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u72	Madam President! The Finnish line is the same as it has been for a very long time, and I think it is a good line. We respect international agreements, we stick to the agreement. This is a matter of honour for Finland. Just as Mr Mustajärvi said there, we have different kinds of openings and opinions. They can be allowed in a democratic society, but the government is taking a foreign policy line, and hopefully with the support of the opposition, as happened last season, and not with the intention of seeking disagreements that do not exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u73	Mr President! A country such as Finland, if it is important for someone to stick to the international commitments they have made. Absolutely. Another reason for this policy is that the very core objectives of Finland's foreign policy are to build, maintain and secure stability in our security environment, in this case in the Baltic Sea region. Foreign Minister Soini, is it not the case that these principles are the most sensible thing not only to strengthen and secure our own nest by keeping it in order, but also to maximise them by working with Sweden?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u74	That's right. I am glad that Mr Kanerva, the chairman of the Committee on Defence, an experienced expert on foreign policy, summed this up so nicely. I don't think I could have done better than that. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u75	Mr President! It is clear that all matters can and must be discussed freely and bring up the position of Åland, although I do not think it is wise, but it is a very different matter if any citizen or a press release or even a representative of Parliament does this. But when a member of the Board of Directors responsible for security policy is involved, it changes because this is something that is also being paid attention outside Finland, and it raises questions: is the Finnish line changing, is there any change going on here? I think it is important that, at a time when there are many uncertainties and tensions in the air, there should not be a kind of debate and suspicion, and that is why I would like to ask: what is the government going to do to ensure that there will be no such individual secessions in the future that could call into question the stability of Finland's policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u76	Madam President! I answer because this is an important issue raised by the representative of the Judgments, and he certainly knows these things. To make this point as clear as possible, I would like to repeat a few things here: the position of Åland is anchored in international agreements and ordinary law, and there are no plans for the government to intervene in this established position. This is a completely unambiguous line. If you don't understand this, then it's different.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u77	Madam President! Now that there is a great deal of shouting in the background, I too looked at the interview and understood that the Minister of Defence, Niinistö, answered the journalist's question and considered that demilitarisation, because it exists, means that there is no military presence, and sometimes it can be more difficult and slower to defend the Åland Islands, and this type of debate. Is this the correct interpretation, and in your opinion, was this a withdrawal from the government line that Minister Soini described?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u78	Madam President! This was quite right, Mr President. The sea interpreted this as my reflection, and it was not meant to be taken away from the government line. Åland is a demilitarised region, but the fact is that demilitarisation does not guarantee security during a serious crisis. That is why we must prepare as well as possible to defend the whole country, including Åland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u79	Mr President! It is good that the Foreign Minister: Soini expressed the clear position of the government here, but I too believe that Mr Niinistö's speech has been somewhat ill-considered. On such issues, when it comes to respect for international law and international agreements, Finland cannot give the impression that we ourselves are prepared to consider changing them, because what Mrs Kanerva said is quite true. The international treaty-based legal system is precisely the support and security of small countries such as Finland. That is why I would now like to ask Mr Soin a little more broadly about the Government's view: At this time, when the superpowers have violated international law in different ways, is it not important that countries such as Finland strongly defend an international system of contractual provisions and demand, for example, an investigation into possible war crimes in Aleppo? We also have the conquest of Crimea, which violates international law, and we must now ensure that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u80	Madam President! I believe that three of these influences different Finnish politics Niinistö agrees, and I think that is an excellent thing. Finland takes a position in all international fora, both in the UN, the OSCE, the European Union and in all cooperation organisations, always in favour of rule-basedness, human rights and peace. Finland also participates in the practical peace-keeping process: The Finnish Blue Berets are currently in operation UNIFIL in Lebanon, we are in Afghanistan, we are in Mali. We have four good Finnish women in charge of four civil peace operations. We will work together in practice here, and these are our foundations. We are a peace-loving country that, in terms of foreign and security policy, is doing that we are not going to conflict. But in case we do,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u81	Mr President! This point has probably become quite clear in the light of this debate. The confusion that has arisen here must be due to the fact that the situation in the Baltic Sea is what it is, as a result of the recent development of a negative spiral. However, the Government's approach to this issue of the position of Åland has become very clear on the basis of the very clear speeches made by the Prime Minister, the President and now the Foreign Minister. And it is also a good thing to say that this position is also a unanimous position among the political groups, which I think is valuable in terms of the whole of Finland's foreign policy line. However, I have a question about this: the Åland Islands must also be interested in our neighbouring country, Sweden, with which we have good cooperation in security policy, which is becoming more intensive and good plans in the future. Have there been any subsequent discussions with Sweden on this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u82	Madam President! Last time I met my colleague Margot Wallström in Luxembourg on Monday. We have published, among other things, a joint article in Helsingin Sanomat, many other newspapers. Last year, there was a suspicion in this Chamber that Foreign Minister Soini would somehow disrupt relations with Sweden. On the contrary: Margot Wallström and I are getting along very well. I've described our cooperation in such a way that it has Beauty and the Beast. We have not been asked about this at ministerial level about Sweden, but, if you ask me, we would be happy to discuss this matter and form our common position.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u83	Madam President! It is good that the Foreign Minister has now also made the Government's line very clear. I hope this is clear not only for the front row of the government, but also for the ministers in the second row. You, Mr Soini, said that this was a misunderstanding or a deliberate misunderstanding. If that were the case, then what if President Niinistö of the Republic was forced to correct in public the words of Minister of Defence Niinistö, whether it was a misunderstanding or a deliberate misunderstanding of the President of the Republic or the Prime Minister, or whether, in a tense situation in the Baltic Sea, after Russia's armaments and the USA's response, such speeches do give rise to amazement and concern and therefore spread so much that when you talk a little past their mouth, the others will have to correct.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u84	Madam President! It is good that this has now become clear. In my view, I said so clearly what was the government's line. Here you, Mr Arhinmäki, can support the government's good proposal for a Government report on foreign and security policy, in which this has been included, among other things. If you have not read it, it is worth reading, namely it is there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u85	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities TyVM 5/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u86	Mr President! This is a government proposal to the Parliament to approve the protocol to the mandatory work agreement, i.e. ratification of the ILO agreement. This Protocol or Agreement aims to combat trafficking in human beings in the context of forced labour and to improve the status of victims. And on that record... [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President : Still, Honourable Speaker,in order to avoid any doubt,I believe that Mr Filatov has spoken. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u89	Mr President! It is an excellent thing that Finland wants to sign the ILO Convention on Compulsory Labour unanimously. The main point of disagreement is whether our current legislation already fulfils the conditions that ratification of this Protocol will impose on us. According to the Government's proposal, human trafficking legislation and the related system of protection for victims of trafficking are sufficient to meet these conditions. The experts consulted by the committee in the preparation of this matter from NGOs to researchers disagreed. Their one-tone message was that there is also forced labour in Finland that cannot be reached by human trafficking legislation and its system of protection for victims of trafficking in human beings. There are at least two of these situations: Firstly, a situation in which forced labour does not fulfil the characteristics of trafficking in human beings. After all, the characteristics of trafficking in human beings have been drawn up in three steps. It contains this act, which, in addition to forced labour, may be sexual exploitation or, for example, trafficking in organs, but it also lays down conditions for the manner in which this forced labour must have taken place. If forced labour does not meet these other conditions, it is not trafficking in human beings, even if it is forced labour in the sense that the ILO definition assumes. Another situation in which our system of protection of victims of trafficking in human beings does not fulfil these international obligations which this agreement imposes on us is a situation in which criminal investigations have not been able to gather evidence that the case can be dealt with under the human trafficking heading, for example, when it is dealt with in a court of law as a form of work discrimination such as extortion. In the case of such crimes as trafficking in human beings, the protection of the victim is considerably, much lower than if you are admitted to the process as a victim of trafficking in human beings. We have situations where almost all the authorities agree that it is quite likely that there has been a trafficking in human beings, but despite this, there is still another crime title because the documentation that meets the human trafficking mark cannot be collected. In these cases too, the victim of forced labour will therefore be left out of our aid system. I strongly believe that this line adopted by the majority in the committee's report is flawed and is likely to be corrected at some point, either in connection with our domestic judicial institution or, ultimately, with the work of international human rights institutions. Unfortunately, these systems are terribly slow, and the fact that we are not making that decision in this Chamber, on the basis of the experts we have heard, means that many victims of forced labour who need protection do not receive it in Finland at this time. That is why I am involved in the protest that calls for further measures to protect the victims of forced labour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u90	Congressman Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u91	Mr President! I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that this does not give us the impression that the majority of the committee, to which I belong, is totally devoid of any opinion from the authorities or any other kind of support for this majority position. However, this is the view of the Government Counsellor of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy that these conditions are met, and they have given us an opinion on it and, on the basis of these expert statements, it is precisely as a response, and that is why the committee called for the government to monitor this situation. This was not in any way as clear as it may have been in some way implied in these speeches. I would just like to say that, in any case, the members of the committee do not want to be deliberately ignored; it is not as clear as Mr Kontula, for example, said here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u92	One last response to Mr Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u93	Mr President! Even if it were to happen that the Ministry itself would follow this so closely that it would find the mistake it has made, the victims of forced labour in Finland will not be protected for years. It is the same solution that slows the process down as it is that we are waiting for the human rights courts to resolve.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u94	And we're about to go to the list of speakers. Before that, there is Mr Meri, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u95	Mr President! After all, the government parties wanted this to be ratified as soon as possible and this reservation to be made that, if there is still any contradiction, because it was not absolutely clear. If it had been absolutely clear, of course it could have been required, but when it was not. Those in favour of this objection required that legal changes be made before we can ratify. So this agreement would not have been ratified at all. It is good to remember now that this would mean that something perhaps unclear is being prepared here, and what if it were the same thing again, that there is nothing to be regulated there, and this ratification of the Treaty would have been delayed again?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u96	Mr Filatov, Chairman of the Committee, reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u97	Mr President! Indeed, the committee consulted experts on this issue and asked the Ministry for a reply. In that Ministry’s defence, it was considered that our assistance systems are in order and that there is no such ambiguity in these interpretations. But, in fact, the majority of the experts in the committee, the Criminal Sanctions Agency and others, felt that we had problems of interpretation. I therefore believe that everyone believes that this should be ratified, and perhaps the difference between the majority of the committee and the statement made by the opposition is that the majority believed that this already fulfils these conditions, but that it is necessary to monitor whether there will be problems, and then the protestors again thought that this did not meet those criteria and that they should be corrected first before ratification can be achieved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u98	My last response to this debate, Mr Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u99	Mr President! On the subject of this ratification order. Traditionally, at least in the last decades, Finland has acted in such a way that things have first been put in order and agreements have since been ratified. This is not the only practice. In southern Europe, for example, it is very common for ratification to take place first and then perhaps to look at something later that needs to be changed, but Finland has traditionally rejected the practice and felt that it was the wrong way to move forward. If there is now a fundamental change in our procedural line in this respect, then it will be quite an historic change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u100	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u101	Mr President! The Socialist Group in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities therefore supports the ratification of the Treaty, but believes that prior to ratification, the protection of victims of occupational exploitation such as trafficking in human beings under Article 3 must be ensured. I agree with Mr Kontula that it is somewhat questionable to ratify the Treaty if its own legislation is not in place before then. The committee's proposal for a statement does not guarantee that this will happen, because it is no longer enough to follow up. As has been pointed out here, according to the experts who have been consulted in committee, it is clear that not all victims will be protected, because the problems of interpretation of concepts and the link between the system of assistance to trafficking in human beings may lead to the protection of the weaker victims required by the Protocol, and this also became examples in expert opinions. Thus, the concepts of forced labour, work discrimination such as railing and forced labour, as defined by the ILO, overlap in some respects, and it is very difficult to draw a practical line, as Mr Filatov and Mr Kontula have said in their speeches. We, the signatories of the protest, believe that the current system of assistance for victims of trafficking in human beings should be extended to victims of crimes of exploitation comparable to trafficking in human beings before the conclusion of the Protocol. Therefore, our objection to the draft statement proposes that, before ratification, it is necessary to ensure that the conditions of Article 3 of the Protocol are met in national law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u102	Mr President! In fact, in that reply, I brought up the essential points. In other words, this matter was not taken for granted, and that is why the majority of the committee agreed that the agreement could be ratified, and we trusted this opinion from the TEM on this issue. As far as Mr Kontula's statement is concerned, whether we are changing a principle in the ratification process: I did not see anything like that in my speech. I have not proposed any changes. I don't know if he showed it to me or to who. He spoke about the fact that, if this is ratified now, there will be a number of shortcomings in legal remedies for years — which I do not recognise and I am not entirely convinced that this is the case, but that it is the view of the representative, Mr Kontula. I simply said that it would take time for this to be investigated before ratification, as a minority would like. It would also take time, and the agreement would not be in force, and that is what I meant by this, not that we will then change the law, when I am not at all convinced that this is exactly what the minority position is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u103	Mr President! It is good that this ILO agreement will be ratified and these remedies will be updated in the international agreement. International cooperation is the only way to combat trafficking in human beings and the very serious crimes involved. There is little room for a single country to do this, but international cooperation, international agreements and, above all, international cooperation between the authorities can deliver some degree of results. Trafficking in human beings and the problems involved, all the crimes it commits, are very serious. People are being exploited, and just as Mr Soini mentioned during Question Time, it can be the most disgusting exploitation of people, even in the form of human organs being taken: human beings are being killed and then their organs are being used in an organ transplant. The most gross crime a person can imagine is this kind of activity. That is why international cooperation is very important. And there's one thing you should remember: While we are currently reforming the civil intelligence legislation — he is sitting, and the aim is to complete the work of the working group during this year — the aim is to establish such intelligence legislation in Finland that can be used to obtain advance information on these criminal groups that are preparing these disgusting crimes. The only way to address these issues is to obtain information through international contacts, and to this end, intelligence law must be up-to-date in this country so that through international cooperation the protection police can reveal these tentacles of international criminal groups, which will certainly reach Finland today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u104	Mr President! After all, in these ratifications, Finland has traditionally followed a line in which legislation has first been put in order and then international agreements have been ratified. If we remember the last parliamentary term, then, for example, the UN Convention on the Disabled was ratified in such a way as to require the adoption of a self-determination law first, because there were constitutional problems with that law, but once that law has been put in order, then the ratification treaty can be signed. Here, in a certain way, there is a different idea as to whether things should be corrected first or whether they should be ratified first and then corrected. It could be said that the Istanbul Convention, for example, has done little in such a fickle area, when it has been ratified, even though we know that we do not fully comply with its recommendations. But, of course, the recommendations are a little different from the strict articles which oblige and require certain things. But why am I speaking now as a Member of Parliament and not as chairman of the committee: The reason why we doubted that our systems did not meet this requirement of Article 4 was because, among other things, the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman challenged our system and stated quite clearly in his own statement that we have people who are subjected to work discrimination such as straining, which in a way fulfils the elements of forced labour but not the element of trafficking in human beings, and then they are forced out of the system of assistance, because the whole system of assistance is built around the system of assistance for victims of human trafficking. That is the concern that this is all about. It is good that this is being followed, but it would also be good to correct it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u105	Mr President! This particular debate, of course, is, in accordance with the protocol, primarily related to the protection of victims and the punishment of criminals. But I also think it is important to point out that forced labour and trafficking in human beings are very special violations of human rights, that, as Mrs Hoskonen, for example, has strongly demonstrated here, the primary aim is to respond only when a human trafficking offence has already taken place and to try to do something with the actors involved in the activities that have already taken place. In general, the debate on trafficking in human beings should focus primarily on the prevention of human rights violations, the prevention of situations that could lead to the violation of the human rights of a person. What, then, would this mean when it comes to forced labour? In addition to these protection systems and legal security systems, this would mean strengthening the general working conditions and autonomy of immigrants in the Finnish system, as well as public awareness of trafficking in human beings and forced labour, both of which are relatively foreign concepts for Finns. In the final analysis, however, it is a question of such unfortunately soft and abstract issues as income differentials, the role of women and access to education. It is no coincidence that Moldova is a victim of trafficking in human beings much more often than it is from Finland. It is precisely up to these structures, and it is also a matter of safeguarding human rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u106	Mr President! As a member of the committee, we must also trust the experts, and many of the experts we heard on this issue in committee are working with these people, and they said that the problems with the aid system are real. There is even a need to remove people from the aid system because of the ambiguity of these concepts and these borderline problems, although they certainly need help. And so these experts, who work with these victims all the time, tell us. That is why there is no need to follow up on this. The problem is real and real. We should do something about this, not just follow.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u107	Mr President! This principle that we first put our own legislation in order and then ratify our own treaties is something that Finland should continue to adhere to, and that is why it is a little worrying that we want to do otherwise. Mr Filatov mentioned, among other things, this disability pact, in which I did just so, that, although it took a long time, it was ensured that the legislation was in place before it was ratified. I think it is a sustainable road. Mr Filatov also raised the Istanbul agreement, which Finland has ratified, even though we have a large number of recommendations which are not yet in order. Personally, I am concerned about this type of progress, because then it may happen that these things will be forgotten and buried. For example, with this Istanbul agreement, we have very large financial deficits, for example in the case of shelters or so on. In that sense, there is a risk that if we first ratify and then take practical action, we will be able to lose sight of these measures for a long time and not do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u108	Mr President! I would like to comment briefly on whether there was a question of possible ambiguity in our committee reading: I went through all the statements carefully and, apart from the statements made by the ministries, the message was one-sided: our human trafficking legislation does not cover the definition of forced labour, which is enshrined in the ILO Protocol. I myself have been working on trafficking in human beings for quite a long time. I have written my own dissertation on sex trafficking and, among other things, I have made a report to IOM on trafficking in human beings. I would say quite well that I know this field of Finnish work against trafficking in human beings and dare to say that we did not miss out on any key points. They all went to the committee and they all agreed. There is no information in this country which has not been heard by the committee during its hearing, and the position of experts consulted by the committee outside the Ministry Consensus was very unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u109	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, LaVM 10/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u110	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a government proposal aimed at preventing terrorist attacks and participation in terrorist activities. This is the result of United Nations Security Council Resolution 2178 of 2014, which aims to combat the threat posed by persons leaving abroad for the purpose of committing or promoting terrorist offences. This is still quite topical at the moment, and one might say that the threat has even increased, and it is good that we are also in the process of reforming our legislation. This is therefore changing the Chapter of the Criminal Code so that travelling for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence is punishable and that the offence in question would be fined or sentenced to a maximum of two years in prison by a person travelling to a State of which he is not a national or in which he is not permanently resident to commit a terrorist offence there. This crime of travelling should not be condemned if the actual terrorist offence were to take place, but, above all, to prevent these events. At the time, I myself took the initiative to criminalise belonging to a terrorist organisation, and this government proposal now contributes to the content and objective of my bill. After all, we have already provided for the financing of terrorism as a criminal offence, but it has not been directly prohibited by law to belong to a terrorist organisation, and now, through this legislation on travel, it is being dealt with in a certain way — although, for example, when the opinions of the committees are read, it is still mentioned here in a number of paragraphs that it is not very clear to verify and thereby to convict these people of the preparation of a terrorist offence or of this type of activity, and that is why I still hope that this criminalisation of belonging to a terrorist organisation can go further along with this. We also have cases in Finland where Finnish people have travelled to Syria, for example, and it would be easy to tackle this type of travel when we have absolutely unambiguous legislation, but it is hoped that this legislation will also strengthen and prevent this travel, possibly due to the preparation or support of a terrorist offence. I also think that it would be quite justified to ban the sharing of the symbols of such organisations, for example on social media — the allocation of tickets and similar symbols for organisations that are clearly guilty of terrorism. It would also be a good signal that this type of fraternization or the dissemination of such symbols is not well regarded and is not acceptable. I hope that the government will take the lead in these matters, but thank you for that, at last, that this travel with the aim of committing a terrorist offence will be criminalised.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u111	Mr President! Unfortunately, terrorism has come closer to us, it has come to Europe and, of course, the debate here too has increased and we have had to develop our own legislation in the direction that we can prevent the crimes that could happen. In fact, adding to Mr Heinonen's good reflection and speech: the point to which we still need to give rapid attention and to which we need to have legislation in this house is intelligence legislation, that we will be able to get more rapid and better information about the potential individuals who are planning or in some way linked to groups involved in this kind of thinking. This legislation will contribute to this same big package, and intelligence legislation must be brought into play quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u112	Mr President! In this government proposal, travelling for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence is proposed to be punishable. According to the motion, the sentence could be sentenced to a Finnish citizen or a person permanently resident in Finland or a person travelling from Finnish territory who travels to a State of which he is not a national or in which he is not permanently resident to commit a terrorist offence there. Attempts to commit a travel offence should also be punished. A fine or a prison sentence of up to two years would be imposed on a travel offence. This government proposal is very important and welcome for the improvement of our security. It is also very good to note that, at the same time, the provisions of the Criminal Code on the financing of terrorism are supplemented by the penalisation of the financing of travel crime as financing of terrorism. This government's proposal is based on a UN Security Council resolution which is directly binding on its Member States. The aim is to combat the threat posed by persons leaving the country for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence. Unfortunately, even today it is not possible to know with certainty how much of Finland has travelled abroad for this purpose or how much of them have returned. Fortunately for us, the protection police have some knowledge of the matter, but of course there can be no complete certainty about it. The protection police, like other police activities, are struggling with a lack of funding and resources, which we parliamentarians must react to immediately in the preparation of next year's budget. It is a question of the safety of all of us, and it cannot be compromised by justifying it with general savings targets. The Government's proposal would also amend the provisions on secret coercive measures and secret means of obtaining information so that they can be used extensively to prevent, detect and investigate a travel offence. With regard to the use of certain secret coercive measures and secret means of obtaining information, the requirement would be that the seriousness of the act would require imprisonment. It is clear, therefore, that these crimes are not petty crimes, but concern the security and security of each of us. Some time ago, there was a debate in the media about foreign control when it had been targeted by a black rap artist. As an unfinished case, it immediately launched a wide-ranging debate on general rules for police surveillance. In my opinion, in this case too, the media, particularly by the tabloids, were once again overdoing the news. This usually happens whenever there is a police officer on the other side: the actions of the authorities are called into question. On the first day, the police are the greatest possible criminal, and the next day the afternoon newspapers are already writing about the hero police. Such news coverage should be more part of fairy tales than of the truth - protecting and truth - lasting news. The work of the police is extremely valuable for the personal safety of the citizen and for the internal security of Finland. Its Finns have internalized when we look at the latest barometers targeted at police officers, for example. The Finnish police enjoy widespread appreciation among Finns. This is also the case internationally. Many people who come to Finland from other parts of the world experience the police in their former country of residence may not be as positive as Finns think about their police. However, this has not been seen in this Chamber but mainly in the speeches. There are no real decisions on securing police resources and funding. We urgently need a decision on the financing of some 200 police officers so that these temporary police posts do not have to be abolished at the turn of the year. This will require EUR 14.3 million. The composition of this Chamber will decide whether we are merely giving speeches or whether we are really safeguarding the security of our citizens. Mr President! Finally, I would like to emphasise that the purpose of this government proposal is to combat the threat posed by persons leaving the country for the purpose of committing or promoting a terrorist offence. I consider the government's proposal to be appropriate, not least because it contributes to improving the security of each of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u113	Mr President! In this time, I think it is very important that travel for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence is punishable, as is the addition of the penal provision on the financing of terrorism by penalising the financing of a travel offence as financing of terrorism. It is also important to supplement the provisions on the use of means to prevent, detect and solve a travel crime. This can be done by supplementing the secret coercive measures of the law on coercive measures and the provisions of the secret intelligence means of police law, as Mr Savola has already pointed out. Mr President! A wide range of tools are needed to prevent radicalisation, but it is clear that punishment is an important threat of intimidation. These changes of laws are getting closer and closer to each one of us. For example, it is known that as many as dozens of people have left Espoo to be foreign fighters. Many people do not think that young girls also go out there who have believed in their youth and, frankly, their stupidity and have had a certain romantic image of what they are up against in the end. I would also like to take one unfortunate example from Germany, where a female police officer was stabbed, as I recall, by a 15-year-old radicalized girl. When he had been asked for identity papers on an ordinary police assignment, he had dug a knife out of his bag and slit his neck. He has later told us that he has had an explicit purpose in harming the authority. He had already tried to go to Syria once before, but then, as I recall, his mother had brought him back from the Turkish side. In other words, I would like to emphasise once again, Mr President, that such penalties are one of our ways of making young people a threat of fear that it is not worth trying to travel and, on the other hand, that such activities should not be supported financially in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u114	Mr President! This law on combating terrorist offences and punishing travel is, as I have already said before, what we regret to be doing in this day and age. Of course, what punishment can be imposed — a fine or a maximum of two years’ imprisonment — are these means of punishment in the legislation, but more attention must now be paid to how we can prevent these crimes from ever happening. This, of course, requires quite extensive cooperation within the European Union, but it requires international cooperation on a wider scale. Supo has also publicly estimated that we have such extremist people, whom they also follow, there are more than a hundred in Finland at the moment. Of course, we must give all the respect they have for what they are doing and are able to follow, but of course they too have limited resources but also limited means if our legislation is not at the level that supports this. That is why we need to get this intelligence legislation in place extremely quickly in this country. That Question Time revealed that we have received some 36,000 asylum seekers last year — the Minister for the Interior, Risikko, said that. It may be that there are people of this type, for whom this proposal may have been made, but then we also have those who have previously been in Finland and who have gone to third countries and then come back to Finland. So, of course, this legislation is also needed to monitor these people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u115	Mr President! If you continue to speak to Mr Savola, it is of course good to remember that this legislation also applies to us Finns — whether or not the word 'parent Finns' is used — and unfortunately we also have those who have left here, for example, for Daesh's troops in Syria. It is a good thing that this legislation is now being put in place so that we can deal with all these people, no matter where they come from and leave here with this kind of crime in mind. The reform of intelligence legislation is being prepared. In fact, we are a bit of a strange bird here, the last country. In Sweden, legislation has been in place for a long time and Sweden has been able to prevent terrorist attacks, for example, through current intelligence legislation. That is what has been reported to the public. We are currently preparing intelligence legislation by a parliamentary working group, and there has already been some public debate on this, and I understand that this preparatory work will be put right this year. But when there is also a vice-chairman of this parliamentary working party, Mr Salolainen, I would like to ask Mr Salolainen: Is there a timetable? Will this parliamentary work be completed this year? And how do you see this legislation coming into force? With possible constitutional issues in it, what schedule can be used to bring this to life?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u116	Mr President! Indeed, such a parliamentary working party is preparing intelligence legislation. The intention is to have two laws: the Military Intelligence Act and the Civil Intelligence Act. And, as mentioned above, Finland is a backward country in these matters. We are actually the last country in Europe without such modern legislation. This means that this is very urgent, but it is planned that these proposals will be completed by the end of this year. There are constitutional issues and so forth, but this report itself is not yet at the point where it makes any sense to say more about it, because there are no final decisions taken there. So it has to be said in this context that next year we would be discussing Parliament and then the following year would come into force if everything went according to plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u117	Mr. Speaker! Of course, in the framework of that military intelligence law, more of this matter has been followed up. This was already the case during the last parliamentary term in the Committee on Defence, these legislative projects that will be needed in the future, and this was already discussed at the time, and it is now good that it is progressing. We've got to get a move on. The Parliamentary Monitoring Group is doing a good job, and hopefully next year we will now be able to get the law out of this so that we can make a difference. But I would also like to comment on Mr Heinonen's speech that it is indeed true that the legislation currently before us is of course affecting so many other people in Finland, immigrants. Now that we look at the crimes that have been committed in Europe, for example in Belgium, what happened in France, there were among them so common people, born in France in principle, who were linked to extreme thinking at a later stage when they lived there, as well as those who had visited Syria in the ranks of Isis and returned from there and so on. In other words, there are many types of people here in Europe today and, in a way, in order to prevent this threat, this legislation needs to be developed at many levels. In Finland, you cannot remain backward, as has been mentioned here. We must be courageous, take these forward and keep to the rhythm, the nervousness of time, which is now more widespread in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u118	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee. In this context, the debate will also be allowed on the agenda 6. 12th
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u119	Mr President! There is a legislative initiative to amend Article 17a of Chapter 7 of the Consumer Protection Act, i.e., to put it in a familiar way, to close the gap in the interest rate ceiling for quick-leases. When Parliament adopted legislation on a government proposal — and on MPs in particular Lenita This was an active one — a 50 % interest rate cap was set for quick-leases. Its purpose was to curb the excessive interest rates levied by quick-lease companies for the purpose of insolent exploitation, which almost invariably ranged from 100 to 4 to 500,000 per cent. But not soon when inventive entrepreneurs came to the consumer's purse in the form that this EUR 2000 limit was being circumvented so that the law no longer applied. In other words, the quick-lease companies gave the borrower a limit of EUR 2000 and, despite the fact that the person used a share of this 2000 figure of EUR 300 when this limit had been granted to EUR 2000, this ceiling, which had been introduced by the legislation, no longer worked. So-called short-term credit or short-term credit, i.e. unsecured consumer credit applied for on the Internet and SMS, for example, causes payment disruption labelling and financial difficulties for an increasing number of Finns. At the end of June 2016, there were 372,800 defaults, or 8.4 per cent of the Finnish adult population. That's a terrible amount. The payment default marking makes life difficult for a person’s everyday life and may prevent, for example, receiving a rental dwelling. Disbursement marking is a major social problem that needs to be addressed not only by developing social credit but also by limiting the cost of quick loans. It is noteworthy that the Competition and Consumer Protection Agency has responded very strongly to this and is prepared to take even further steps than is now the case with the initiatives of these first elected representatives from each parliamentary group, so that this credit line cannot create an overshooting of the 50% interest rate ceiling. However, the spirit of this bill signed by 136 MPs and, if it is counted, by 866230 Finns indirectly through MPs becomes clear: Finland does not want unscrupulous enrichment for profit. The bill is therefore very important across party boundaries, and it is hoped that this bill will be given the proper treatment to deal with, for example, as well as the citizens' initiative, with 50,000 names. Mr President! Let us hope that there really is a state of will in this Parliament so that we can put an end to this brazen and useful evasion of the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u120	President! During the last parliamentary term, Parliament wanted to react to the legislation around the quick-juice business, wanting to review it, as the fast-wipe business was indeed surrounded by and engaged in harsh business. The worst drain defects were corrected, but slippery businessmen are quite resourceful and have discovered loopholes. With this joint initiative, the cluster of initiatives, we want to correct this runaway, and this cluster of initiatives, which actually has 136 Members of Parliament behind it, is a great expression of the cooperation that should take place more in this House. Representative Myllykoski spoke of 866,000 voters. It is indeed a figure behind the signatories, but it must be thought that one seat is about 10,000 votes. That we can talk about 1.5 million citizens, whose representativeness through representatives is behind this initiative. I also agree with Mrs Myllykoski that this initiative deserves to be treated as worthy of consideration, and that it should be dealt with in this House in the same way... — I will continue with the floor here. [The First Vice-President, Mr Pekkarinen : A good solution. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u123	Mr President! These legislative initiatives have a total of over 130 signatories, and that is a good thing. The statistical data on customers of both default marking and enforcement are hard to read. At the end of September, there were already 374200 persons in the Finnish Customer Information Ltd’s payment disruption register. In the case of enforcement, the customer has been one in ten Finns. One factor behind the ugly figures is these limit credits, which have taken advantage of loopholes in the fast-track legislation in the last parliamentary term. For many consumers, the cheekless interest rates on these credit lines have come as a surprise. A different surprise to the authorities has been that these credits have also been granted to those who have already been subject to default marking. It is therefore time and duty to put this activity under control now, and that is where these legislative initiatives will hopefully serve as government blackmailers. However, I believe that in a larger perspective this is not enough. In order to curb over-indebtedness among Finns, a larger programme would be needed to address the root causes of over-indebtedness. According to experts in payment disruptions, two entities could already go a long way, i.e. through training and the use of positive credit information. I do not believe that a great many of the over-indebted have originally wanted to be imprisoned deliberately, but that the journey to the bottom has often started insidiously. It can also be seen from the fact that over-indebtedness is linked to income. You can find people who are difficult to pay, in all income groups, from those who earn ten tonnes of wages to those who live on transfers. The reason is in our modern way of spending. People can take out consumer credit on a mobile basis, pay by hire, for example, mobile phones, cars, furniture and so on, and be tied to many monthly contracts on broadband and so on. We do all this, but how many of us, for example, can immediately say how much more or less than our monthly income we spend as a whole? That is why we need training to understand our own finances. The most natural place for this is school, but these services should also be available for adults. Another more concrete instrument to prevent the crisis in debt is the use of positive credit information. For five years in this house, I have been talking about how positive credit information in other countries has shown its usefulness. For example, in Sweden, where positive credit data have been used for more than 20 years, those at risk of over-indebtedness are identified more securely and at an earlier stage than in Finland, which makes it easier for authorities to operate, for example. At the same time, debt levels remain lower than we are, making it much easier for us to put these people in order. According to experts, using positive credit information would also be reasonably easy for us. The difference is whether there is political will behind it. On behalf of the over-indebted, that would be desirable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u124	Mr President! Värderade Talman! As can be seen from the good initiative before us — thanks for the activity, Mrs Myllykoski and others — almost 400,000 people, or more than 8% of the adult population in Finland, were affected at the end of June of this year. Of course, the payment default marking makes life more difficult for a person’s everyday life and may prevent, for example, a rental dwelling from being received, not to mention a mortgage. Much has been said in Finland, on the very subject in particular, about supporting micro- and small-scale entrepreneurship and increasing confidence in the Finnish operating environment. The aim is, of course, to increase companies' chances of taking risks, investing, employing and exporting goods and services abroad. The objectives are extremely important for Finland. These entrepreneurial ideas should also be promoted by reducing the stigma of failure and encouraging, for example, bankrupt entrepreneurs to re-start. At present, both bankrupt and non-bankruptcy labels will remain in our registers for a long time and will not encourage new entrepreneurship. There are still the consequences of the recession in the early 1990s, with which fear is colored by the willingness of the often very innovative and entrepreneurial players who have been imprisoned in debt, who have been marked with default. It would therefore be important for us to change the climate in our country in order to learn from economic difficulties rather than to leave an excessively long, years-long negative entry in our national registers. I think it is unreasonable that a young person’s subscription to an unpaid telephone bill or a quick bill should remain in the registers for years, even if the debt has later been paid with interest. I myself worked in the legal department of a bank during my studies, and it was really sad to see how a small, costly and fatal cycle of damage to society often began. In other words, changing the provision on the interest rate ceiling for quick loans is a good thing and, more generally, I believe that labelling of different debts should be removed as soon as the debt has been paid.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u125	Mr President! This joint initiative by the groups to amend the Consumer Protection Act is certainly very welcome. Quick liquors have been a problem for a long time, and they put people in really problematic situations. It is good that the loopholes that are now left in the legislation are being blocked. We know that every 12-year-old, i.e. every 12-year-old, has received a payment default marking because of these quick-ups, and this is a major problem for young people in particular. Young people are precisely the group that is busy taking prompts, and then may have to go a little insidiously into the cycle that causes these default messages, which will then be received in many places later. For example, when entering into a lease or taking out motor insurance or acquiring bank domain names, there can be a barrier to these default markings, and that is not why it is possible to deal with such matters, in a way, in a normal life. Pensioners are also a growing group that suffers from these speeds and is in a rather bad spiral of it, at least if a new loan is taken out for the purpose of paying the loan. This is the second growing group, and it is very important that this issue is addressed. These high-visit companies themselves advertise: 24/7 in three minutes the money to the account, any adult can apply for credit by SMS or online at any time. Personally, I would see that this advertising of high-visit companies should also be addressed. Some cities have tried to do this, and, for example, there have been policy decisions regarding such outdoor advertising that the advertising companies are not given that space. I believe that these are also good ways of doing this. But then, if we look at the need for this money and we have more and more families where the money is really scarce, and, for example, because of these future index cuts, this problem will certainly increase, then we should be able to create social credit systems in the municipalities, for example, from which we can then apply for these loans so that we do not have to take short-term payments, which are often caused by excessive interest and other costs. That is why it is important, like this training, which Mrs Wallinheimo said was one solution, that these social credit systems should also be developed in order to obtain this temporary assistance. Our income support system, which is intended for temporary assistance, has already become very like this kind of continuous help, and it does not necessarily then meet the need for what it was originally designed for, and therefore other systems would be needed alongside it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u126	Mr President! The first signatories of this bill from each group have done a good job. Our representative, Arto Pirttilahti, in the parliamentary group in the centre, who has now not been able to attend this sitting, has been extremely active in this regard, and this bill, which has now been collected under the names of 136 Members of Parliament, is not in the process at all. Last season, this issue was dealt with in the form of a citizens' initiative as well as various legislative initiatives and government proposals, and so on, but loopholes were left behind, and they now have to be addressed and filled in. It is extremely regrettable if this year's statistics also consider that more than 370,000 Finns have their own default marking at the moment. That means that the control of its own life situation is not necessarily right for everyone. Then money is offered too easily in the form of quick levers, and when these means are still found, how it can happen, nothing really changed in that respect. We should be able to develop this education in society slightly differently, first of all to teach our children and learn to save more ourselves, that there would be a certain amount of time there on the side of the sock, even if there were tough times, that this would not go so hand-to-mouth, not to mention eating from the next month's account or the future account, and then, unfortunately, these problems will be repeated. I believe that this bill should be taken seriously, that there is now such a large number of parliamentarians behind it, and this of course goes through the proper committee procedure here in Parliament. I hope, of course, that the government of the country will also play its part in bringing this loophole to an end.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u127	Mr President! Firstly, a few comments on the speeches that have been made. It is a very good thing that Wallinheim and Strand took very important matters into account here. It is precisely the fact that we lack a positive credit register that is amazing and, on the other hand, one must wonder why the person who has paid for his obligations is still on the list. I can't believe it. I can't believe it. It prevents the entrepreneur from starting again and deprives the young person of the possibility of getting a rental dwelling, for example. We freeze people in place, we stop entrepreneurship and activity with these, you might say, very old-fashioned values that exist in Finland. There is no possibility of error, and it will be punished even after you have paid for your error. Since the prison sentence, man has settled his crimes, but the default marking still follows you as a conditional sentence — but it is only one form of criminal justice, but at this point we are vexing our own citizens and with our own legislation and little inaction we make it possible to do so separately. The need for social credit is undoubtedly clear, and it has been great to see certain cities involved. When I wrote about this social credit, I received some stormy comments that this already exists, and that is what is distressing people. Well, it was a misunderstanding: when we get situations, for example, that earnings-related daily allowance is delayed and the person needs money then, he gets it from the income support door, but as soon as that daily allowance comes, he has to pay everything at the same time, and we know that situations come when you have a living person and you need to buy those winter tires for that car, and in that sense this kind of social credit, based only on reference rates, would be far more merciful than we are, in a way, forcing a person through these quick buys to fix the momentary need for money. In itself, this kind of quick lever is about a practical opportunity to bring relief to that momentary need for money, but a much better system would be social credit, which would be made part of the normal operation and thus could enable us to avoid these default marking. It is true that we also need to tackle this aggressive advertising even more. In fact, Congressman Mikkonen took a good stand on the fact that some cities have already made such solutions, and I think this should be a very clear direction that we cannot accept the fact that we will, in a way, offer that moment... Well, if this weekend at night you can't do these things, but that narrowing down hasn't made it any easier or took this issue any better. But let us say that the previous Parliament, when it passed the law and the committee that prepared the report, did so and the government's proposal had already recorded that there was no such thing as the current loophole. Yes, it has been well stated here that the detailed explanatory statement of the government proposal states that a credit of more than EUR 2000 can only be excluded from the scope of the law if the credit is also actually available to the consumer. Thus, according to the Government’s proposal, regulation must not be circumvented, for example, by imposing a credit limit of EUR 2000 or more, but subject to contractual conditions without appropriate justification for the consumer’s right to use credit. The preparation has tried to take into account that such a loophole would not have been created, but it just now exists in the moment, and that is why we now hope to change this quickly. I would therefore like to thank Mr Toivakka, Mr Pirttilahti, Mrs Aalto, Mrs Guzenina, Mr Kivelä, Mr Laukkanen, Mr Löfström and Mrs Myllykoski for this debate and for this vigorous sympathise and fascination that the government is taking this matter seriously and that the committee is taking the message forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u128	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u129	Mr President! The Act on rehabilitation benefits and rehabilitation allowance benefits of the Social Insurance Institution, the so-called Rehabilitation Act, contains provisions on rehabilitation benefits for insured persons under the Health Insurance Act concerning vocational rehabilitation, demanding medical rehabilitation, rehabilitationpsychotherapy and other vocational or medical rehabilitation as discretionary rehabilitation. According to Article 53 of the Act "The National Pension Institution may organise the rehabilitation provided for in this Act either by producing the rehabilitation services itself or by acquiring them from other service providers. Rehabilitation services provided by a public or public equivalent body may only be acquired by the Social Insurance Institution if the obligation to organise rehabilitation under this Act cannot otherwise be fulfilled." Article 53(2) of the Rehabilitation Act, which restricts the possibility for the Social Insurance Institution to acquire rehabilitation services from a public or a public equivalent, has proved to be problematic in practice, particularly in situations where a previously classified private service provider cannot, for example, be regarded as a private operator as a result of an organisational change. In its current form, the article imposes additional costs on municipalities and reduces the status of rehabilitation workers and access to services. In particular, Article 53(2) of the Rehabilitation Act has caused and is in the near future causing problems in the rehabilitation of veterans. Many rehabilitation centres for war veterans and war invalids operate in the form of foundations, where the Social Insurance Institution has been able to obtain rehabilitation services from them even during the current law. Typically, however, the Foundation’s statutes stipulate that when the number of veterans to be rehabilitated falls permanently below a certain limit — for example, half of the customer’s seats — the city or other public entities will be subject to control. With the decrease in the number of veterans of war, this situation is at hand in many rehabilitation facilities maintained by the Foundation at present or in the near future. According to the current section 53 of the Rehabilitation Act, the Social Insurance Institution can no longer obtain rehabilitation services from the rehabilitation institution, but must seek another service provider. In this case, veterans may have to change institutions in the middle of rehabilitation, and knowledge, competence, functioning processes and long-term care relationships that have been created in these rehabilitation facilities over a long period of time will also be lost. If the municipality wants to provide veterans or other customers with the possibility to continue with the services, it will have to take care of the facility at its own expense, which is very difficult and even impossible for many municipalities financially. The limitation on the acquisition of rehabilitation services from the public service provider of Article 53 of the Rehabilitation Act has been made in the past for a very different type of supply system for rehabilitation services before, as a result of membership of the European Union, procurement procedures were brought into line with the requirements of Union law. There is no longer any justification for this restriction today and, inter alia, the Social Insurance Institution has submitted to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health that this restriction should be lifted. The current regulation limits the possibilities for appropriate rehabilitation and creates unnecessary harm for both municipalities and recipients of rehabilitation services, in particular for veterans and war ombudsmen, for whom the services provided should be the subject of special attention by the public authorities. The legislative amendment proposed in the bill would increase the provision and efficiency of rehabilitation services and thus improve the freedom of choice and equal access to services for the rehabilitation worker. According to the Government Programme, a comprehensive reform of the rehabilitation system will be carried out during the current parliamentary term. The Board of Directors responds to section 53 of the Rehabilitation Act (KKKV 155/2016) In the written question on the subject, it was considered appropriate to assess the conditions for the continuation of rehabilitation facilities and the need for changes to the rehabilitation legislation as part of the overall reform of the rehabilitation system. However, with regard to the rehabilitation services for veterans, the need for change is very acute, and the situation for many rehabilitation centres does not stand to await the preparation of a comprehensive reform that may last for years, when this reform has not yet been properly initiated. The current proposal to amend Article 53 of the Rehabilitation Act is not related to the substantive development of rehabilitation, but is a separate procedural issue which would ensure continuity of rehabilitation activities and changes in customer groups of municipal cooperation institutions. As a purely administrative matter, this article can be corrected by means of a separate legislative amendment without causing difficulties or prejudice to the wider overall reform that will be prepared later. In view of the above, we propose that Parliament adopt the following bill: "The Act on the In accordance with the decision of the Parliament, Section 53 of the Act on rehabilitation benefits and rehabilitation allowance benefits of the Social Insurance Institution is amended. read as follows: Organisation of rehabilitation activities: The Social Insurance Institution may organise the rehabilitation provided for in this Act either by producing rehabilitation services itself or by acquiring them from other service providers."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u130	Mr President! Many practical experience shows that the current rehabilitation system needs reform. Reforms must be made to create well-functioning care chains for rehabilitation workers and to provide equal services for all those who need rehabilitation, regardless of their place of residence. The existing rehabilitation legislation is also in need of change. Article 53(2) of the Act on rehabilitation benefits and rehabilitation allowance benefits of the Social Insurance Institution is one of the most urgent points of law to be amended. This article defines the organisation of rehabilitation activities and the right of Kela to acquire rehabilitation. This article of the Rehabilitation Benefits Act should be deleted as soon as possible, as in practice it limits Kela’s ability to obtain rehabilitation services from public or public equivalents. On the basis of practical experience, we can already anticipate that this article is creating problems both for the activities of several rehabilitation centres and for the finances of municipalities, workplaces and rehabilitation services of people. This article is particularly harmful for the rehabilitation of veterans. The problem with the law is that many of these treatment institutions providing rehabilitation for veterans and invalids operate privately, for example, on a foundation basis, and this foundation-based approach has made it possible for Kela to acquire these rehabilitation services during this current law. But the situation is changing, and this change is taking place very quickly because the number of veterans is decreasing. In this case, the ownership of these facilities will be transferred to municipalities and cities or other public entities, while at the same time the acquisition of Kela rehabilitation services will cease if this law is not changed as a matter of urgency. This change, as described above, turns into a problem in a situation where this previously classified private service provider becomes a classified public operator and is no longer considered a private operator. This has already happened in Finland, as a result of such normal organisational changes, and Kela has no longer been able to purchase services from them. With regard to war veterans, this means that they will have to change rehabilitation centers. This is not only a loss for veterans, it is also a loss, of course, for this whole activity and for the workers, for the whole community in which this institution is located, because at the same time it loses that knowledge, knowledge, working practices and long-term care relationships that have been created over a long period of time. If the municipality decides to offer veterans, invalids and other patients receiving rehabilitation treatments the possibility to continue with these same services, it will have to take care of the rehabilitation centre at its own expense, which would be economically almost impossible for many municipalities without Kela buying services there. This change, which I have described above and what Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen described, concerns, for example, the rehabilitation centre of Doveveville in South Savo, Mikkeli. They've been living there since 1927. Founded in 2004 by the Federation of Soviet Brothers and the City of Mikkeli The Doveblä Foundation currently produces these various rehabilitation and care services, including institutional rehabilitation, interval periods and courses funded by Kela for different customer groups. The quality of the activities is very high, both in terms of content and equipment. The City of Mikkeli buys neurology, orthopedics, traumatology and fire-rehabilitation at the Kovevälä rehabilitation centre. Unlike the city, In the future, Kela could no longer acquire rehabilitation services from Dovevet in the future, as the number of veterans is reduced to less than half of all customer places, and when the City is transferred to the City under the control of the Dovetlä Foundation. Mr President! The benefits of rehabilitation are beyond doubt. For a rehabilitated person, improved functional capacity and independence mean a clear improvement in the quality of life. It is important for society that rehabilitation brings considerable savings in subsequent care costs. This Article 53(2) of the Rehabilitation Act is an example of a practical problem of rehabilitation that we parliamentarians can easily remedy. Only two lines of text need to be deleted from the law, and it is also relevant that: Kela herself wanted these texts to be deleted. There is, of course, still room for improvement in rehabilitation after this change. One of the most demanding areas for improvement is the fragmentation of rehabilitation. Rehabilitation is produced by many actors, governed by different laws and implemented in different ways and resources across the country. No one really has an overall picture of the situation, as the service practices and criteria for rehabilitation have not been comprehensively described and the need for rehabilitation services has not been coordinated jointly. The greatest sufferer of this situation is rehabilitation, for example, a war veteran who deserves all our appreciation, and a war ombudsman who, in his last few years, will be deprived of a well-functioning rehabilitation chain. Mr President! With these words, I hope that the legislative initiative will be welcomed in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u131	Mr President! First of all, I would like to congratulate you on your birthday and very much success in the future. This bill by the representatives pays very much attention to the essentials. There is personal experience in the position of the chairman of the Ähtär Brothers' Home where these issues have also been discussed over the last few years. There I was about 3.5 years, but even before that, we have been thinking about these further uses insofar as they can be secured as the number of veterans, war ovals, declines. And we really did make our own decision in April and then merged into Kuusolinna Health Ltd, which is therefore a private service provider, producing health services in our region, with which we already anticipate social welfare reform for our part. But there are very many of these brother homes and rehabilitation centres in different parts of Finland, and of course they are in a very different position, some are better prepared, some are less well prepared. The unfortunate truth about all of these is that the average age of veterans when it is high, then more and more of the care places then have to be filled with other customer groups than these main customer groups themselves. And certainly these things that have been raised in this bill in connection with this rehabilitation and what Kela has hoped for should be changed. After all, we have this overall rehabilitation reform. [Second Vice-President, Arto Satonen : The congressman will continue to talk about the toilet. (Speaker moved to speaking rooster)
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u134	Mr President! It is easy to agree with this bill. Indeed, it is unfortunate if such a technical problem causes us to be unable to provide the veterans with rehabilitation in the familiar place where they are used to it. And it is quite clear that it makes sense to make this change because, as has already been pointed out many times, it is typically in the statutes or regulations of foundations or associations which have maintained these rehabilitation centres that when the number of veterans falls below a certain level, the control of the operation is transferred to, for example, the city or other public bodies. And if we have in the law such limitations that because of this no longer this facility can be used for rehabilitation, then certainly there has not been a purpose when the law is created that such a situation will come to pass, and therefore I would see that this would be easy on such technical changes to make. At the same time, it is easy to agree with the point that Mr Savola has just mentioned that our veterans are all so old that surely this percentage of disability is not the determining factor for whom we can provide services. And I think it is important that we should be able to take care of our veterans, who are still here with us, and be able to respect their work so that we can all provide the service, either the rehabilitation or the services that are being taken home, for which we are delighted to see more money being made available for next year's budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u135	Mr President! I too would like to congratulate the President on his birthday. Because of this current law, I myself have had to decide, as a municipal decision-maker, contrary to the charter of the War Veterans and War Ovals Rehabilitation Centre. The book provided that when the number of veterans to be rehabilitated permanently falls below half of the customer's seats, the city or municipality would be subject to control. However, the Social Insurance Institution could no longer have obtained these rehabilitation services from an institution owned by the municipality, and therefore the activities had to be transferred to a third party, i.e. against the statutory book, contrary to the original idea which had been set aside for the activity. As a municipal decision-maker, I found it very sad because it was not able to respect the spirit of the book. At the moment, a similar situation is happening at or shortly to come in several war veteran rehabilitation facilities, and that is why this is a matter of urgency, and it is certainly not worth waiting for the overall reform of the rehabilitation system, because this is only a technical change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u136	Mr President! I myself warmly support the bill of Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen. This debate has well highlighted the need for such a legislative initiative at this time. Our generation of veterans is at a very high age. In order to ensure good and high-quality services by the various organisers, there is a pressing need to do the dismantling of standards. This would be an extremely good target. A few lines, as mentioned above, would be removed from the current law and taken into account by the various service providers, in this case the public sector, the municipalities, and so on. Now is the time for action, and now is the time for action. In this context, however, I would also like to remind you of this rehabilitation allowance for veterans. Although the government increased the amount of funding for the rehabilitation of veterans, at the same time part of the rehabilitation appropriations from the Slot Machine Association's betting winnings were removed. Fortunately, however, these additions left us on the side of the plus side. I would also like to draw attention to the comments made by the Veterans' organisations in a joint message to the various parliamentary groups a few weeks ago. They wanted to remind the decision-makers that even though the government added money, this money is not enough to cover all the rehabilitation services designed for veterans that veterans need. In other words, there is still not enough money, and the talk that the Veterans' departure is the right reason for this is not true, because the Veterans' departure is not as great as the money reduction that is taking place in the long term. I hope that the government will pay attention to this. Finally, at the end of Question Time today, I wondered whether, during Question Time, I would have included the issue of the pension cut for front veterans and veterans if I had known in advance how the matter would be dealt with undervalued in the course of the debate. How can we operate on those to whom we owe money?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u137	Mr President! In that excellent speech by Mr Savola, he also raised this increase of EUR 20 million from the government to item 56, but I would then like to ask Mr Savola: can you tell me why the government will then cut out paragraph 57 of these rehabilitation funds and also Christmas gifts from veterans? So this does not seem like a very good policy in that way, but it is a bit like continuing with a silly blanket, that one place is taken and another is added and then the speeches simply say that something has been added, but let us forget to mention it if something has been taken away. In other words, our veterans and the MPs have earned their rehabilitation and must be guaranteed it by all means possible. It is also necessary to clarify the guidelines of the municipalities, because, of course, there will be a very unfortunate situation if the Treasury recovers the money that is intended for the rehabilitation of veterans and if the municipalities do not understand 100% of them and do not know how to use them. This needs to be changed as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u138	Mr. Speaker! That last one came to the very essence, the fact that the funds that are being allocated to those veterans will also be spent. Of course, as municipal decision-makers, we have a responsibility when we operate in our own administrative bodies, that we then know how to instruct, that we can tell, that we can influence the veterans to get all the care they need. All in all, in these veteran services, in terms of how the money is allocated by the various articles, I think the most crucial thing is that those who need care receive it. Of course, there is state funding, there is funding through the Treasury, there is funding from the third sector, to which I myself referred in my speech, namely the funds available to the various associations, foundations and so on. Next year, when Finland is 100 years old, it is the veteran population that will have to receive more funding, so that those who have fought for this country will have access to the services. A large entity for which I, at least, want to be active, and I believe that both the opposition and all the government parties believe that these issues are at the top of the priority list and are important, and if there are some decisions that need to be improved, then I can count on the will of this House to be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u139	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u140	Mr President! Who wants high unemployment to crush more unemployed people in Finland? If a professional driver, such as a taxi driver, loses his licence, he loses his profession and his livelihood. If the law on driving licences is not amended, the current legislation on driving licences will lead to a significant increase in driving bans. I have submitted to Parliament a legislative initiative to repeal Article 65(1)(b) of the Driving Licence Act. In this case, a motorised vehicle would not result in a driving ban for repeated infringements of the speed limit referred to in Article 25(1) and (2) of the Road Traffic Code. This amendment of the law has no effect on repeated daily fines and driving bans. By comparison: speeding fines leading to daily fines, i.e. exceeding the infringement, continue to lead to a repeated ban on driving when Article 65(1)(b) of the Driving Licence Act is repealed. So it's a matter of not getting your driver's license out of here for a couple of infractions. Mr President! Many Finnish drivers have a real fear that they will be banned from driving because of repeated low speeds in the current operating environment, where the speeding fine limit has been lowered and automatic speed control has been increased. If a person receives three or four fines per year for a low speed or two years, the police are required to impose a driving ban on a person under the current driving licence law. A morally and humanly unsustainable situation has arisen for motorists, in which a driving licence can be lost very easily. It is very difficult to find a motorist who is sometimes not guilty of slight speeding. For many Finns, a car is the only way to obtain food, work and purchase essential services. If the driving licence law is not amended, the increase in driving bans will lead to major problems in people's everyday lives. For example, a person with partial reduced mobility who needs his own car to handle his/her own business and who is subject to a driving ban as a result of repeated minor speeding fines will be placed in an unfair position if the driving licence law is not amended. Many people living long distances in Finland have had to take themselves or someone else by car to a hospital or health centre if their life or health has been threatened. For carers, the car is a lifeline, especially in rural and urban areas. Without a driving licence, their ability to care for their neighbors would be greatly weakened. The importance of driving licences must also be taken into account for medical staff and safety authorities who may have to carry out urgent life and health-related tasks at work. Mr President! There is a very urgent need for this amendment to the driving licence law and its necessity is based on facts. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u141	Mr President! I am one of the signatories to this bill, and I have been contacted by professional drivers on these very points, which Mrs Packalé described earlier. Indeed, we have become a small problem with this driving licence legislation in relation to driving bans. I do not excuse the fact that we should be speeding, of course the traffic rules must be adhered to, but in this modern society, in which we are surrounded by these so-called tin police across Finland, human error only happens. If a professional driver drives 60,000 miles a year — which is easy for a salesman or anyone else who needs a car to carry out his profession and livelihood — then the human mistakes will only occur. According to the current law, a driving ban is imposed if three fines or four fines are imposed during the year, i.e. many of the human flashes that have occurred inadvertently from the tin police, when a few kilometres an hour has been speeding in practice without endangering its greater traffic safety. Mr. Speaker! With this legislative initiative, we now want to raise the issue and bring it forward, and I am very much in favour of it. I also left a written question on this same matter to the Minister and he replied that this matter will be in the process of clarification and this will also be addressed in the further work of the ministry and the government, and that is good, and this bill supports it in every way. What we now have here remains to be seen, but, of course, in this bill of law, this issue, clearly and in a more direct manner, would now bring speed and strength to this issue and would allow many situations to be eased. And what I have understood, of course, the tin police fines will come through automatic surveillance and the letters will blink to the mail from the time the camera first blinks, but these will in practice also take some of the police's resources and, of course, it should be directed even more effectively in the current situation to the cases that need it. Mr. Speaker! The use of a car is just a prerequisite for living in rural areas, where I come from myself and where public transport is not what it is here in the capital region. And, of course, there are some things that can already give you this exemption from driving: for example, if there is something about a family member’s health or other, then the police may use the police’s discretion to do so. But when you go to work and the fact that your own business is closed, this will cost society many times as much, and of course that penalty will also be many times higher for the person who receives the driving ban: losing the tool to work and, in the worst case, losing the job if you can't do the job, and not being able to do the job. This is much more expensive than maintaining the right to drive as a result of these human errors. What I have been talking to professional drivers, rather than having a ban on driving, would even be ready to pay more fines: if there has been foolishness and there has been more fines, then we will then increase the amount and pay it with money, but that there will not be a ban on driving. At the end of the day, I would like to emphasise what I actually started with, that, of course, traffic rules must be respected and gross speedings must certainly be punished, but this issue of driving bans only applies so strongly to professional drivers and to those groups who are forced to drive very hard for their work and where the number of these human errors is increasing. I believe that we will find a sensible solution to this. I would like to thank Mrs Packalén for this excellent legislative initiative. Let us move it forward together as members of the government parties, either in such a way as to make progress on this bill as it is, or through the Ministry we are strongly involved in the preparation and this spirit of the bill's content is realised in our legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u142	Mr President! In the debate today there is a Finnish fine policy. It is unfair to those who are on the road, when today, for three or four offences in a year or two years, a driver can be ordered to be banned for at least one month and, at worst, he may even lose his job as a result of a driving ban. The right to drive can be lost by three small careless speeds. I think we should consider moving to a system of error points. Such a system of error points is in place in most European countries. Such a system of points would treat drivers more fairly by punishing those who repeatedly violate traffic rules more severely. The score takes into account the seriousness of the infringements. Our current system does not take sufficient account of the seriousness of the offences, when, on the contrary, it should be based on this and security risks. Indeed, there is a risk that the current government's line will increase the number of driving bans. It seems quite unreasonable for the driver to be banned from driving for at least one month from the four speeds dealt with with infraction fines during a period of one year or two years. Furthermore, in Finland, a professional driver cannot, so to speak, clear the balance, i.e. drive for a sufficiently long period of time without fault, so that the offence account would be resettled. Thus, the current system does not adequately serve the self-decided change in the behaviour of drivers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u143	You can reserve your speeches with a P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u144	Mr. Speaker! I also have a great deal of understanding for professional drivers, and I understand the content of this initiative by Mrs Packalén, but I am slightly different about the means and a little bit about the things. This transport policy has now been dealt with by the current government ahead of fiscal policy. Evidence of this is raising the number of tin cops, lowering the speed limit. Somehow it seems that transport policy is falling short of fiscal policy, and I would like to see these matters corrected first. These things would have an effect on the fact that very small fines would be dropped, and this would certainly be a relief for these professional drivers in particular. But, of course, this is not the only way, but I would also like to take an example of a country where we often take examples: in Sweden there is a system of automatic traffic control which tells motorists, with very open and very visible signs, that there is a need for quieter driving in this area, because the region is dangerous, and that includes tin cops to describe those vehicles and, above all, drivers who do not take this warning seriously. In Finland, tin cops are put more in hiding and a little out of sight, and it often seems that the way to find money is to find money for the state budget. But there is one more thing I would like to raise, and that is the abolition of the mobile police force that was carried out last season. This was a mistake for us, I dare say. It was precisely the task of the mobile police to act in that traffic, where it is now clear that, especially with regard to the level of heavy traffic and the level of private cars, we do not have the level of traffic control that it should have in this country. I hope there's a fix on this. Finally, Mr President, happy birthday!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u145	Mr President! I also saw my warm congratulations, on behalf of the undersigned, to the President-in-Office of the Council and to the most successful role! — Then to the point. The bill signed by Mrs Packalén and 13 others is very good and very timely. The problem that has rightly been mentioned in this initiative is that we have a system of fines and fines which, at its most severe, leads to a person losing his driving licence because of a few minor fines and then, at worst, even out of work. In my own circle of acquaintances, I know two or three cases where this situation has become so serious that it really has already started to be a job, and then the family in question has been caught up in a situation that can be regarded as intolerable in Finland for long distances. As Mr Tavitsainen rightly mentioned in his own speech, this system of scoring is already in use, as I remember in England, where traffic offences are dealt with as points of error. If you only break a little bit, i.e. drive a slight speeding speed, you may get one error point. Then, of course, the number of points will increase as the severity of the offence increases. This would be a sensible system. I am tired of understanding what kind of aid has not been set in motion here, and I hope that the government of the country will intervene. I know that at ministerial level there is opposition to such a system of error points, or at least what I have heard so far, there is little understanding of this, and I have not heard very much from the police. But in this Finnish system, it is, in a way, a kind of shame for a person to lose his card; it is a very serious matter for a rural person in particular, as is quite rightly written in this initiative. For rural people, this is really a serious matter, for long distances in Finland, if the card goes. Then there will be another even more difficult phenomenon in this job, and that is that, in professional transport, drivers of timber trucks, for example, face this huge serious situation on a daily basis, and the overcharges will also go away. When a driver drives a truck out of the forest on a winter day, it is a snowy day, according to the coat of arms, when he has made a claim — the truck cranes today have weight scales that can determine to a certain distance of ten kilos how much wood is in that truck — the load weighs its legal amount when you start out of that laan, from the forest, but when you drive 100 kilometres to the factory and you have a snowy snowy weather, it weighs after 100 kilometres if you have wet snow, very easily two tons more and a half. So there's a lot of snow in that load. And at the end of the journey if it happens to be the scale and there happens to be these infractions before, it will be an overload and a fine for the driver, and at that moment the driver will be completely helpless, he will lose his card, he will lose his profession, and he will lose his merit. At worst, I know that the family has come into very serious financial difficulties because of such an overwhelming situation that cannot be attributed to this person himself knowingly or negligently. That is why I would like this excellent initiative to be properly dealt with and, above all, to enter into a system in which such taking away a card from the card holder would be extremely rare, and to be able to develop this system in such a way that the amount of fines or any other system would be developed — just as the representative did. Tavitsainen made an excellent point about this scoring system, which I would like to see coming into force in Finland. It is truly regrettable that we have not reached this point. We should get out of this old bitterness and envy of the past to take away the card from the guy and laugh at the neighbors, at least. No, there should by no means be a system like that anymore, but we should look at things calmly, because 99.99% of road users are certainly on the move with good and stable ideas. Then if there is a man who has raged or commits a gross violation of the law, they shall be brought into the court of law, and there shall judgments be broken as such. But it is unreasonable for ordinary people to get their driver’s license dry because of a few fines. I hope that the bill will succeed and that this problem will be removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u146	Mr President! I should like to comment on Mr Taavitsainen's speech, which was in itself a good speech, but there was a mistake inside. This current system, where this system of fines has been made, is not the line of the current government, but, on the contrary, this government is now trying to correct this. As I said, the ministry is aware of this matter and there will certainly be guidelines there, and as Mrs Packalén's representative of the government has strongly pointed out, we certainly have a desire to correct this flawed and poor system in force. To Mr Karille, I am hating that he admitted and raised the error of the abolition of that mobile police force. This was quite a twist during the last parliamentary term, and Mrs Packalén herself, as a police officer, also strongly defended this mobile police force, and we Members of Parliament who were then in the opposition wanted to raise precisely the signals that the police came from the abolition of the mobile police force as it was abolished, without the help of the resources. Their activities were transferred to other police posts, and traffic control was reduced. This, too, is certainly one of the reasons why these tint policemen have now had to correct this traffic control. Even there I would drive more in the open direction of these tin-cops, that they are in the visible places, they are clearly mentioned, because at worst even the tin-cops are endangering that traffic, as it becomes this kind of reflective traffic, slows down to the tin-cops, and then speeds up again. It does not improve road safety. But hopefully progress will be made on the content of this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u147	Mr President! Very happy birthday for me, too. This government has decided to invest in camera surveillance and, as I have just said, there is a risk that the current government line will increase the number of bans. And I did not mean, Mr Savola, that this law, which Mrs Packalén is proposing to amend, would be the result of the current government, but that the current government's line could increase the number of driving bans, because it has now been decided to reduce the number of kilometres that will then be punished if you drive speeding. This seems to be more of a money trick than a road safety promoter. In other words, the camera poles are far too much placed on straight road sections when I think they should be placed on accident-sensitive road points, such as crossings or narrow roads or steep curves. At the moment the poles are defined by the ely centre, and they are often in the middle of nowhere. The police should be consulted on the placement of these poles, because they certainly have information about where this camera surveillance is needed. It would certainly be worth considering and carefully considering whether it would be better for us, however, to have this automatic traffic control more focused on improving road safety and not on obtaining an income stream for the State. It is also a good way of doing what European countries have to do, that when you commit a traffic offence you go back to driving school for lessons. This also has a preventive effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-20-ps-104.u148	Mr President! I would also like, on my own behalf, to congratulate you on this anniversary. And I would like to thank everyone in the Chamber for their good speeches. There has been an important and valuable issue here, which has been a little overlooked. Indeed, the mere drop of this one kilometre in this fine policy amounts to about 50,000 more fines. In other words, there are so many of these cameras, and this camera surveillance is an excellent activity, but, as has been said in several speeches, criminal policy and fiscal policy should not be confused. So this should be some kind of administrative charge or some other payment. And these consequences are truly unreasonable for this individual, who will then have to pay for his slight over-speed. - Thank you.
