ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u1	A second reading will be presented on the second item of the order of business. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 12 April 2016. The debate is by Thomas Blomqvist Matti In support of Mr Semi's proposal to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 12 April 2016. With the support of Emma Kari Silvia Modig, Parliament has proposed to adopt a statement in accordance with the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u3	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement that has been made in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u4	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u5	Mr President! The review includes a Government proposal to ensure security of supply and the obligation to store imported fuels. Oil security storage has been managed in Finland in such a way that the directive, the availability and accessibility requirements, have also been met in practice. The aim of the proposal is to clarify national legislation in such a way that the points of the Directive raised by the Commission in its reasoned opinion are more clearly transposed into national law. In Finland, the security stocks of oil are the oil stocks of state emergency reserves owned by the Security of Supply Agency and the obligation stocks of oil importers. Finland maintains oil stocks well above international obligations. Oil is in stock for about five months when many European countries meet the minimum level of three months. According to Article 3 of the Act, state security stocks are held for the livelihood of the population, for the functioning of the economy and for the defence of the country, and for the raw materials and products necessary for Finland’s international contractual obligations on security of supply, such as crude oil, natural gas, cereals, medicines and industrial raw materials. It would therefore be necessary to have more security of supply discussions on all these issues. These changes would make the regulation of the usability of stocks of crude oil and petroleum products more precise in the Directive, while maintaining the obligation for Member States to maintain the regulation of stocks of crude oil and/or petroleum products, so as to maintain the current practice. The proposal would not result in any change in the practices followed. Finland’s energy self-sufficiency is low, only about 35%. We are dependent on imported energy. In practice, all crude oil, coal and natural gas are imported from Russia. In 2014, they accounted for more than 60 per cent. In addition to ensuring the adequacy and usability of emergency stocks according to obligations, we should strive to improve self-sufficiency. Although the availability of energy is now good, any changes in the operating environment in the region should always be prepared. Finland’s cold climate, remote location, dependence on maritime transport and long transport distances are special features that affect the objectives of security of supply and the choice of means. Mr President! Finland has a highly developed technology and a wealth of strengths that help maintain our national security of supply. Our energy imports could be halved by exploiting our diverse and abundant natural resources. The use of peat and wood chips in heat production, wood and straw based fuels and the use of biogas are good examples to get closer to energy self-sufficiency.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u6	Mr President! Our country has been stockpiling oil products for a long time before the EU and the IEA have defined their obligations to their Member States. There have been clear reasons for the security of oil stocks: our country's complete dependence on oil imports and the remote, island location of our country. The emergency storage of oil products shall be carried out by the Security of Supply Agency and the oil importers for which the obligation storage has been provided for. In practice, a quantity of fuels corresponding to the consumption of about five months has been stored in our country. The EU/IEA obligation is only 90 days, i.e. three months. Provisions on the availability and usability of stocks of crude oil and petroleum products are proposed in the current law. In the same context, the law on compulsory storage of imported fuels will be amended by specifying that the importer would be obliged to store crude oil and petroleum products in such a way that they are available. The additions are due to an EU audit and to the resulting statement last autumn, which obliges Finland to review its national laws. These changes would make the regulation of the usability of stocks of crude oil and petroleum products more precise in order to comply with the Directive on the obligation of Member States to maintain the regulation of stocks of crude oil and petroleum products, while maintaining practical action. Mr President! I therefore believe that the proposal neither weakens nor improves the security of supply of our country's oil products, but I think it is important that the security of supply is maintained beyond what the EU and the IEA are obliged to do. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u7	Mr President! When it comes to access to energy and security of supply, it is always an important issue, and it also enables us to think about energy policy in general and in society and everything about it. Here, too, we are talking about excise duties on fuels, and so, President, I would like to recall in this context the debate we had last week on the frameworks and proposals for state finances, among other things, regarding the fact that the country's government is now raising the gas tax. I would like to be even more surprised at how this was possible, because we all remember that, of course, it is part of the election that promises are being kept, and it was amazing that, for example, Mr Soini, the President of the Finns Party, before the elections, was still very critical of the increases in the gas tax. He said: "Dear government, gas tax is equal tax, the pump does not ask how much is an account or pension. Same price, it's equal tax." And now in this Chamber I would like to recall this last week's debate from the point of view of how this happened and how this is possible, and especially when you think of Finland as a whole, its sparsely populated regions and people who need and work. Before the elections, the speech on this was completely different from what note it took after the election.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u8	Mr President! Security of supply and self-sufficiency are important security factors, and as is the case here with the representative Mäkipää said, so much more should be discussed about these issues, what their state is in Finland, if we experience national crises or an external threat at some point. I would hope, now that this issue is slightly improved and that there will be additional obligations for imported oil companies, that there will be a situation in which a meaningful and wide-ranging debate could take place on what is the real security of supply and self-sufficiency in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u9	Mr President! It is good that there is concern about security of supply and that legislation is set at a level that is at least adequate. However, I would say that the obligations that the European Union imposes on us are not necessarily sufficient for such a northern country as Finland. We must remember that we are constantly behind the maritime routes, we are a sort of island that must ensure that, under all circumstances, security of supply also works with regard to oil stocks. I am very saddened that domestic fuels in this country have not kept to the same level of security of supply as oil has been. It is quite incomprehensible that we have huge natural resources and that every effort is being made to prevent them from being used. Peat is a very good example. We have our own great fuel. Combined with burning domestic wood, it would give us huge job opportunities, reduce our foreign debt and, above all, generate tax revenue for the state and municipalities. Unemployment costs us a great deal, it is not worth lecturing you about it, but it is incomprehensible that when the word peat is mentioned, people immediately begin in Parliament with a huge cry about not being allowed to do it, not doing it or doing this. In his own speech, representative Pia Viitanen continued his loyal course in violation of the corrective measures taken by the state finances. The situation we were in at the time, and this, when we now had to increase the fuel tax a little bit: they are two different worlds. It is one thing to speak politics rather than bear responsibility, and what Mrs Viitanen has just said was one of this category. Yes, it is easy to criticise if an attempt is made to correct the economy. Honor to those who do that work, and do not shout from the end after that that was wrongly extinguished or even more wrongly extinguished. However, I would hope that the feet are on the ground and that we keep our senses in mind that we should not be clinging to the lily stalks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u10	Mr President! I also think it is a responsibility to take responsibility for our own speeches: what has been said before the elections and promised to the voters. For example, Timo Soini, mentioned just now, accused the city centre of Sipilä of the idea of raising the gas tax and told that the unemployed and the underprivileged, as well as everyone who needs a car at work, to farmers — the flight from the country continues. That is what the honourable Finns spoke before the elections. After the election, there's gonna be another one. This is the responsibility I am calling for. And, yes, I noticed that even here in the city centre there has been a tone like this before the elections. For example, Mr Kalmari has asked,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u11	Mr President! It is great that representatives of the government party support the minister and chairman of the other government party, but I must say that it is a little loose. It is the realism of politics to look at the things that have been in principle, and then at least the government party must bear it in mind that the matter is being raised and spoken about here. After all, in a few months the views cannot be changed from black to white. And what needs to be seen here is that fuel tax is an equal tax. It is certainly not on the meter to see how much pension there is, and I would like this phrase to come out of the mouth of the Finns who are fundamental.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u12	And the last response, Mr Lindtman.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u13	Mr President! Indeed it is. The responsibility that is the greatest responsibility of our parliamentarians, which we must bear, is the responsibility of our own words. Mr President! When it comes to security of supply, let me now take the quote on this. "The security of supply charge for our transport All fuel taxes should be reduced in order to improve the purchasing power of households and improve the competitiveness of industry." That is what the party chairman, the current Minister Soini, said and demanded just a few weeks before the last election. In other words, when it comes to whether the objective was to be achieved, there are parties here who said that nothing is being done about the petrol tax, but there is one party that promised to calculate it, and the end result is now that by 100 million it will rise and the centre
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u14	Let's go to the list of speakers. Congressman Lindtman, do you still have any desire to speak?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u22	I will not give you any more answers at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u23	Mr President! On the issue of security of supply, I fully agree with what Mr Mäkipää and Mr Hongisto mentioned above and also with Mr Hoskonen. But to this gas tax, when Mr Soini spoke about that, the price of petrol was two to thirty cents higher than today and the increase would have been unreasonable. But now that the price has fallen dramatically, it is quite logical that it should be raised slightly and that it replaces the elimination of the sugar tax, which the EU banned, in itself. Of course, there are alternatives. However, I ask the Social Democrats: You, on 20 March 2015, a month before the parliamentary elections, announced that your programme will cut index increases so that EUR 800 million will be saved from government public spending. Today we know that cutting index increases will not give you any cents because inflation has been at zero and index increases will not occur. So your election vows were about 800 million for an operation that doesn't exist. How do you today cover your alternative budget in this regard? With regard to the car tax, you opposed cutting it, as the government did. It has produced between 10 and 20 million more than your model would have produced. You have a huge gap in your alternative budget and you have completely failed your election vows.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u24	Mr President! This Finland is certainly not heated up with talk and cars are not fueled. And, as Mr Kankaanniemi said, the pump price is indeed in a downward trend at the gas stations. And the government budget and the government program are all entities. And now the Government Programme has raised, especially here in the section 'Bio-economics and clean solutions', a whole new line for our energy policy, which I have not seen in the openings of the SDP over these years — right, huh? But security of supply must be seen as a part of overall safety. Indeed, we depend on imports and on the Baltic Sea, and there is no need for either crisis to disrupt imports. And, miraculously, Finland is still attached to the European Union in the fossil economy. And what Mr Hoskonen said about this use of peat is quite true. It is domestic, slowly renewable but completely domestic energy — and renewable, unlike coal, unlike oil. And I will continue to mention that oil is being drilled in very questionable places: seabeds, sensitive areas, Arctic regions. Indeed, we could afford to turn the energy trade balance into a positive balance, precisely by means of domestic energy, thereby improving security of supply, as has been said here in many speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of actual speeches that have been requested. I will give them the floor, and then we will proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u26	Mr President! Indeed, this security of supply issue is important, and I think it is quite reasonable that Finland should raise its own bar so high that, under all circumstances, we can manage our energy economy ourselves so well that we do not need the help of a stranger. In his speech, Mr Mattila raised this well: it is quite incomprehensible in Finland that the nation buys almost EUR 10 billion a year of energy and at the same time actively works — the green peppers of the world are trying to do everything they can — to prevent the use of domestic energy. For example, in my municipality of Ilomants, more than a hundred people have become unemployed in the face of this absurdity. A huge number of people. They are on the unemployment card, the contractors have stopped, and everyone — I calculated on paper one night just how much this is costing the Finnish State — the tractor unit that works for Finnish energy in peat bogs pays around EUR 20,000 a year with all the expenses to the Finnish state, either in terms of taxes or parafiscal charges and other charges, in value added tax, and so on, and we are banned, and at the same time ten billion energy money is paid abroad. This doesn't make any sense. And then there is the wonder that the two cents of fuel tax is rising: that is clear, everyone must now understand, as a Member of Parliament and campaigners, that electoral speeches are electoral speeches, election programmes are electoral programmes, but the government programme is the one where we go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u31	Mr President! Of course, ensuring security of supply is important, but the Social Democrats seem to see the importance of talking about the electoral programmes of the various parties and about what has been done and what has not been done. This reminds me of an old children's song: "There are many wonderful things in the world, and they amaze, and amaze the little walker." I thought it was a children's song, but I think it's a social democrat's May Day song — so many things you're surprised and puzzled about, even confused. And what has been done: As you well know, everything is always a trade. You get something, you have to give something. "Car tax is calculated in a sense" was one of the goals Development aid will be cut by 300 million, which you have considered completely inhumane, but it was a step in our direction. Yesterday, a change in the foreign law was discussed in relation to the tightening of the definition of family reunification for asylum seekers. You also opposed this, many of you, for example Mrs Tuppurainen, very forcefully, while Mr Lindtman, as leader of the group, felt that this was something to be supported. You should probably be in the group, Mr Rinne and Mr Lindtman, a little brushing up your representatives, that we know what the Socialist line is on such a big issue as immigration, for example, the refugee situation, which is a billion-dollar issue,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u32	Mr President! There is certainly not much need for a broader budgetary debate here, especially since Mr Mattila has made an excellent speech here, among other things. However, it is my own fault to say that this small increase in fuel prices is one option and an option here, when the budget is finally being balanced. In his speech, Mr Kankaanniemi pointed out that there is also this ceiling here, that if the price rises, then this question will come back to us. It is certainly the case that, when the economic situation is like this, we must give priority to these major economic issues, economic growth, the social pact. When I look at this alternative budget, the margin is quite non-existent and there are no real alternatives, however, on a large scale to the government line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u33	Mr President! In my reasonably long parliamentary career, I never thought I'd see such a day. President-in-Office, I never thought I would see the day that the Finns of Peru defend the increase in gas tax, the sound of a deep chest. I hope that these protocols will eventually be searched and watched and read and amazed. [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President :Mr Viitanen, as well as the Bureau and your speeches in the books would be postponed ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the agenda heading on this subject, the government's proposal for laws on security of supply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u37	Mr President! Indeed, this question of fuel is, to the most important extent, a question of security of supply, and the issue of price is also part of it. Now I am still reminding the Social Democrats of your election promise on 20 March 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u40	Mr President! Yes, the Finns themselves seemed to have a lot of options before the election for these gas tax increases. You wanted, among other things, the taxation of adjustments, but you also made a proposal that: Soin’s own foundation would have been excluded from the taxation of these large foundations. You had a choice back then. It is interesting, President, that after the elections, the alternatives of the Finns of Finland will run out. They are an extension of the coalition policy and say that there is no alternative, cut social security from the poor, cut off education, make bad economic policy, raise the gas tax and make packages of support for Greece. All the options have faded away and changed from what the Finns promised, and I think it is worth the question that was thrown here: Where is consumer protection? Where are your promises to the voters? I do not believe that when Mr Kangasniemi goes to the market there in Central Finland, people say that, yes, we understand that you spoke different before the elections and now, of course, you speak different, naturally.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u41	Mr President! Oh, the amount of populism! I have still not heard of this security of supply, specifically the option of the SDP to build a new energy policy in Finland, which is written in the Government Programme which is a whole with that entire budget. I am in favour of this whole government programme, the energy transition to Finland, and I am indeed interested in domestic energy and the employment and tax revenues that will result from it for this economy. So the heat doesn't come from the radiator, the water from the tap, or the food from the store. That's just the way it is. In other words, energy policy needs to look for completely new openings that now have the opportunity in this new government programme, specifically in the section on the bioeconomy and the clean solution. That is not what you, Mr SDP, have been involved in your electoral programmes and in your alternative budgets. Finally, is it possible for this EU and the understanding of EU policy that they went to ban its sweet tax? Here we have had, quite rightly, to seek new solutions and to make new solutions, especially when the pump price is low — and there will be a readiness to return if the price of oil from the barrel is to rise in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u42	Mr President! It is very important that we stick to Finnish security of supply. After all, we have an excellent level of security of supply at international level, and that is why such proposals are to be welcomed. Of course, it should be remembered that the security of supply fees are paid every day in that gas pump. Mr President! I have to add a little to the surprises mentioned here by Pia Viitanen, too, that, during the last parliamentary term, when the Finns here so enthusiastically spoke about this fuel tax and were of the opinion that the price of petrol should be lowered, now that it would be a good opportunity to discuss this matter when this relevant person is involved, the Finns here want to talk about quite other things. This is where Mr Kankaanniemi wants to talk about the cuts, and Mr Elo wanted to talk about immigration. This wouldn't have happened last season. Indeed, in a situation like this last season, Mr Turunen would have already asked for a reply specifically on the gas tax. Mr President! Of course, the government programme is always a compromise between the various parties and, of course, no party can always get its own programme there as such. But there is one person in this Chamber who reminded us of the importance of election promises. He said: 'One president who is serious about the government must not make loose electoral promises'. This is what Timo Soini said just a few weeks before the election. Mr Mattila,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u43	Now, Mr Lindtman, your time is up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u44	Mr President! I was not in government negotiations at the time when the government was negotiated — yes, I was in government programme negotiations — so that I was left to answer whether the Finns of Finland made a serious effort to the government, but we are in government. I would like to use some terms similar to those of Mr Viitanen. I'm really surprised, I'm surprised when you're talking about taxing foundations. During the last parliamentary term, I sat in the Legal Committee on the Foundations Act, which also involved the taxation of foundations. The Social Democrats did not want large foundations for tax. That would have been possible during the last parliamentary term. This parliamentary term has not yet been reviewed. As far as this security of supply issue, which is being paid there with indicators, I think it is true that if there is a cost of 10 and there is 9 euros, so that 1 euro needs to be obtained from somewhere, then if you have to take it from somewhere, you would rather not take it from the poor, students, the disabled, the sick, and so on, because the world market price for oil is really so low. I say that it is a small increase, a temporary increase, this 2 cents per litre of petrol, so that it is fairer than taking from the most disadvantaged of all, which would be the alternative of Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u46	Mr President! Yes, there was a lot of things in the Socialist election promises that you were no longer able to include in your alternative budget, and that means that you are on the road to debt-making through your option. For example, you proposed a Nordic financial tax at the turn of November-December. It would not have made it EUR 230 million from this year's budget, which means that the basis for your option has fallen away. With regard to fuel security and the question of fuel, I believe that keeping fossil fuel, i.e. oil, in other words petrol, at a slightly higher level, and favouring domestic renewable fuels is precisely the right economic policy, the right environmental policy. The same was the basis for reducing car tax. Now we have tens of thousands of new, low-emission, environmentally friendly and safe cars because the government decided to reduce the car tax, and it has produced more than the old model, the old higher car tax would have produced. So your choice is bottomless. As far as election promises are concerned, it is, of course, a fact that during the last period you failed your election vows in many places when you were with the coalition in the government. For example, debt to the public sector amounted to EUR 29 billion during the last parliamentary term,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u49	Congressman Vähämäki. — It would be good if, however, there were at least the word'security of supply' in the speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u50	Honorable Speaker! Indeed, the key to this is that we are able to increase our own fuel production at national level. That is the central point. In fact, the fact that we have two brilliant biofuel processors in Finland: St1 and Neste has not been taken into account in this fine but perhaps slightly archaeological debate. And in fact, St1, which is constantly expanding in Finland, including Kajaani, the extension of the Cellunolix bioethanol plant is in the yva stage now. I would see that in the future these new innovations by Neste and St1 will reduce the prices of our fuels. I also have to take into account in this Chamber — and in this debate I would like to pay my respects to the main owner of St1, Mika Anttonen, who today has announced that he will make a donation of 1 million annual contributions to support the physical activity of children of low-income families, and this is a considerable amount of money, yes — that our biofuel and fuel plants are in good shape at the moment, and I believe that it will also be reflected in pump prices for citizens in the future. Let's just keep trying, keep growing it, and when this government was one of the key goals of this bioeconomy base, let's try to grow that support leg.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u51	Mr President! I drew attention to Mr Turuse's promise that this increase in fuel tax would be temporary. I would now like to confirm that, while he is also chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, whether this is true or not, it is now temporary. Last season, when KD was in the government, we were also raising fuel taxes, and that was not in my mind, because I too consider it important from a security of supply point of view that we also have a domestic transport sector, and that is the fact that road freight transport is entirely dependent on diesel. Now I quote a representative of the People’s Republic of Finland who, during the last period, criticised those increases. He said this, "and there's no substitute fuel in sight." Has the situation changed so radically in a few years in this regard? At the time, the KD argued, during the last term of the government, that such a return system would have been created for transport companies, but it came to the point that the Tax Administration and the VM had such different administrative information systems that they said that such a return system would not have been possible through the tax account. But now I ask the representatives of the government whether this has crossed your mind, because through such a return system we could also ensure that there are future transport companies in Finland and profitable ones that generate tax revenue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u52	Mr President! I said this is temporary, because it has been agreed that if the crude oil price rises to more than $80 per barrel, then this will be re-examined. The question is that this 2 cents per litre is easier to accept precisely because the world market price for oil is so low, which means that it will not sting much, but if the pump price rises above this limit because of the world market price, then this will no longer apply. But it is a much better way at this stage than to take this amount of money from transfers, which in practice would have meant additional loading of people who are less well off.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u53	Mr President! I have read these quotes along the way, and this is a terrible thing to look at in terms of the consumer protection of the electorate. Seriously, the Finns of Finland, even before the elections, you wanted fuel taxes to be reduced in order to improve household purchasing power. You said that this is an equal tax, this is disastrous. They've all been heard. And what is interesting about this now, Mr President, is that when people are calling for this to be done more fairly than, for example, cutting off low incomes, poor people, students, unemployed people, families with children, pensioners, this government is cutting off these very ones.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u58	Mr President! At the request of the President, I would like to say the word'security of supply' and I agree with Mrs Vähämäki's thanks and comments on the good and promising position of Finnish biofuel production. In addition, from the security of supply perspective, consideration should be given to the fact that electronic transport, which will become a huge trend in the next decade at the latest, should be promoted in Finland. There are large companies in Finland that are willing to invest in it, but the government does nothing to promote electronic transport. I have put a written question on this and I am convinced that this is completely neglected and will be very damaging to our economy. But as long as internal combustion engines still prevail, we have to go back to the fact that the election vow of the Finns of Peru was a reduction in the price of driving. And it was a little barleyy for those who imagined that the Finns were pushing their cause: the car tax was lowered, but at the same time the vehicle tax was increased, and now the gas tax is being raised. In other words, those rural drivers who drive long distances in old, big cars are losing a huge amount of money in this trade. It would be better for them if the True Finns had not entered the government. Instead, those who can afford to buy a new car, a low-emission car, will benefit from this, the wealthy people of the southern growth centers. So the low-income loses, the high-income win. But the alternative to covering this EUR 100 million is not only a gas tax, but a bank tax to which reference has been made. Just so you know: last week, the Swedish Government has announced that it will implement the financial tax already in force in Denmark, and when I asked here whether Mr Stubb will also bring to Finland this joint Nordic model,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u59	Mr President! I myself will start with the word'security of supply' and I also thought about just talking about it and that's all. Firstly, I hope that in the programme of both this and the future governments, the word'security of supply' is big and it is also underlined in the big one, because last January, Finland was freezing to death because we have not taken care of it. In this connection, I myself asked myself a written question on how the Government intends to ensure the capacity of production facilities in Finland, even in exceptional circumstances. In January we were very close to this situation, and it was just colds. It is also a fact that we are dependent on imported electricity and that our own fuel production must always be in order. It is great that a company called St1 supports children's hockey, but in the same breath it must be remembered that St1 also received state aid for 9.5 million of the latest project, which must also be supported. But how does the government really intend to contribute to the creation of new investments in energy production in Finland, and how is security of supply involved?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u60	Mr President! Security of supply is important, and I'll be back in a minute. Now that you listen to the Social Democrats' speech, you have to ask whether you really want to have a government in Finland that has only one party and its party is called the Finns. You speak as if there is only one party in the government, the True Finns. It seems that you want such a government in Finland, where there is one party, the Finns of Finland. You do not criticize the government, you criticize the Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u63	Mr President! First of all, from this security of supply, it must be said that it is true that we have to look for a completely new energy policy, a completely new type of solution that will specifically support the security of supply that we need in the future, and that is an essential element of domestic energy and its security of production. But then about the disillusioned election promises: how do I feel about whether it was the SDP or whether it was the government or who in the last period that promised to create 100,000 new jobs? How'd it go? And what Mr Östman has said here about the substitute fuel: it seems that they are slowly born. The fossil fuel is stuck, and I blame the previous governments, the previous parliaments, for not finding the solutions that will enable the fossil economy to become a genuine bioeconomy, a circular economy and take those steps. Fortunately, however, there is now a government programme with the bioeconomy and clean solutions placed in a very strategic position.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u66	Now we're going on the list so we can move on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u67	Mr President! This has now become a serious winter problem, which means that our energy supply is vulnerable to extreme frosts, and, as Mr Turunen said, we had good luck this winter, that we were able to get through them. In other words, this security of supply and security of energy supply for industry, and also for the public, is a very important issue, and it is equally important how it is produced. We need to move from fossil fuels to renewables very strongly, and this is where the government is well on the right track in line with the Government Programme. And this is something that the Social Democrats seem to criticise, and I am very surprised at. Mr President! As far as this economic issue is concerned, I would like to refer you here to President Rinte's speech on 20 March 2015. At that time, the Social Democrats announced that they were pushing for an additional adjustment of EUR 4 billion: EUR 3 billion right at the beginning of the parliamentary term and the last billion in spring 2017 and a billion in tax evasion. These were your election vows. Where are they today? What taxes do you take these with? This Nordic financial tax, which I think is worth investigating, would only be a quarter of this. Who will you tax the rest of it? That's not what you've been telling me. Moreover, this freezing of the indices would bring 800 million from you and is therefore out of use because there is nothing available through it. What do they support in terms of employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u68	And this time is over. The congressman can go to the toilet if he wants to continue. — Mr Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u69	Mr President! When we really are discussing this security of supply, several representatives here, including Mr Skinner, have made very good contributions. Mr Turunen has also pointed out that, when you look at this particular security of supply and, for example, the security of our energy supply, it is very important that we have every day, however, that industry and then households in Finland are able to cope. And that brings me to this when Mr Kankaanniemi criticised the fact that the Social Democrats were in some way criticising the development of new forms of energy production, for example. Not at all, but we have encouraged and we wish the government every success there, so that we in Finland will gradually become more self-sufficient in energy production, because this is a very central issue from the point of view of security of supply. But then, having listened to this debate by the way, and having been this question of gas taxes and so on, this will probably tell us that we have a reason in this Chamber to take care of this security of supply in politics. It is true that I hope that each of us has some interest in what we have said before the elections and then in whether we are going to carry out those words here as decision-makers. No matter what party it is, it would hope that everyone in the back of the head will have a pound. That's why it's amazing, for example, for this gas tax, that so much of it was so loud before the elections, but now there's another voice on the clock: that it doesn't do anything bad, and when the price is so low, you can take a few cents from it, and then they say that the alternative would be to take more from these low incomes — but that's what you're doing now. From the point of view of security of supply in politics, I would like you to pay a little more attention to what you are saying in those elections and then to what you are doing in power.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u70	Mr President! If, after a heated debate on this energy self-sufficiency in Parliament, there were to be more energy from the power of speech and the number of words, I believe that we would not end up in this kind of January frost, but would be able to produce a single nuclear political debate. I'm glad they're talking about security of supply. It is good that action is also being taken on this. Increased self-sufficiency is a key issue of security of supply, as has been the case in several speeches, when it comes to the transition from fossil fuels to renewable domestic energy sources. In the winter of January or at other times, Finland must not stop because we do not have the energy needed for our own energy production. I would also like to make my own contribution from the point of view of defence policy. The issue of security of supply is a priority for us. After all, Finland is practically a logistics island. 80% of goods imported to Finland are transported by sea through the Baltic Sea, and more than 90% are transported abroad through maritime transport. Then transport fuels in January or in times of crisis, increasing domestic energy production from the point of view of security of supply is more than to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u71	Mr President! I started my first speech by saying that security of supply is very important when we talk about the availability of energy at all. It is good to have a wide-ranging debate, and that has been enough. In my opinion, Mr Räsänen's rather excellent idea was that, at the same time, political security of supply should also be discussed, which is of the utmost importance, of course, in terms of credibility. That is why, Mr President, to this end, for some time now, I would like to say that there will not be a false witness to our neighbour in the Minutes: yes, the alternative budget of the SDP, which is fully in line with our programme, is based on the fact that we would take less debt than the government does. After all, this government is in more debt than the previous one this year, and this is just the wrong way in itself. Similarly, with regard to this tax issue, I would like to say that there is no misconception that there is no increase in the tax rate at all in the SDP's own option. We are expanding the tax base by making it fairer, for example by involving this financial sector, of which Mr Harakka has just told us that progress is being made in Sweden. This is our positive and positive option.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u72	Mr President! I would have expected a slightly different debate on this security of energy supply, but it seems to be so distant that we started talking about everything else. If we are on the brink of a real crisis and if other countries are, as has been mentioned here, this energy may indeed become a topical debate because it is known that if other countries are caught up in the middle of a crisis they will also seek energy. And we know that when we're out here in the North, it might miss Mom. We have been talking about this self-sufficiency, as the government has said, and about biofuels, and yes, I would still talk about the need for and the introduction of swamps. With 9 million hectares of swamps in our country and, as I recall, some 60,000 hectares have been introduced, why not take this domestic energy into these security of supply issues? But with such discussions we will not get to these security of supply issues at all, and I hope that everyone will actually think in that office, which everyone has spoken again today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u73	Mr President! It is quite true that we need to talk about security of supply in this context, and I think that, for example, Mr Skinner spoke very highly of it. But at the same time, when unfounded claims are made here, they must also be able to be answered. When Mr Mattila asked what the Socialist line was, it has become quite clear that the Socialist line has been towards low emissions, a reduction in emissions. Car tax solutions under the leadership of the Social Democrats have been precisely the way to promote low-emissions. Furthermore, the previous government set in motion a modest but nevertheless significant step towards favouring electric cars, electronic transport, and now even this small, modest project has been put down and has stepped away in this respect. But Mr Räsänen rightly spoke about this security of supply in politics. In other words, if the elections now criticise this line of low emissions and want the cost of driving to be reduced, then it is insurmountable that we are now presenting ourselves as a pioneer of environmental awareness which you never wanted to be before the elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u76	Mr. Speaker! We dare to go before the people and say that we are reducing government debt; we will save this state economy, which has been left behind by your previous governments in the situation of 100,000 new unemployed in the last period and almost 30 billion new debts to the state and the municipalities. This bottom, which has been slipping down all the time, is one that simply cannot continue. The Government Programme has clear sections: adjustment, labour market reforms and major structural reforms. The whole which you in the previous government did not get anywhere forward but, on the contrary, in the wrong direction will save this country, and that will also help to restore security of supply. It is an extremely important issue for our children and future generations. We cannot deal with this country the way you left behind: to take debt out of control. You caused municipalities to increase their debt by EUR 5 billion, the government to increase its debt by EUR 20 billion. You sold government property for 3.3 billion. Maybe Caruna was the biggest in that pot. You left the repair debts unaccounted for. That's $1 billion. You ate an estimated billion dollars, two or three. So, all in all, that policy is once and for all at a loss. And now it is a new time, and now we are making rapid decisions, which was the result of the rejection of the sugar tax in Brussels. That we need to find a way. The best way is not to increase the fuel tax, but it is the most appropriate way to deal with this situation. When it is done in such a way that more fuel is put in and there is little increase in diesel, then it also treats professional transport sensibly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u77	Mr President! In order not to leave a false witness now in the parliamentary minutes, the government’s budget increases Finland’s debt by more than EUR 0.5 billion a year, thus increasing Finland’s debt. Instead, the SDP’s alternative budget would reduce Finland’s debt by EUR 300 million. This shows what we are trying to do and where the government, despite these beautiful words, is taking Finland in practice. And when we talk about alternatives, the government has left the possibilities of raising the share of property taxes in Finland, which lags behind the other EU average. That is why we have proposed that the undertaxed financial sector, which has been quite well represented here in the Panamas and in the distribution of dividends in general in recent days, should not be able to take additional income for the government rather than go into the pockets of the poorest. But, as has been said, the government has made such a choice of values, although we have argued that the Swedish Government has announced that it will immediately implement a bank tax, that Denmark has had such a tax for several years and that Norway is planning to do so, and that Finland would have a great opportunity of Nordic cooperation here and, for example, this will bring some EUR 200 million to the needs of the state, for example, in order to reduce its debt. Still, there's been reports here that they don't want to go. This has become quite clear, therefore, that people do not want to take money from the poor, but they want to take it from the poor, and you will be able to explain this choice of values in the best possible way. But at least that is quite clear and clear.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u79	Mr President! Ten years ago, in the presentation of Eero Heinäluoma — the Minister of Finance was then — the Social Democrats abolished the property tax from Finland's 40,000 richest people, and it took between EUR 100 million and EUR 150 million every year, which means that so far in 10 years almost 1.5 billion of the state's tax revenue has been lost. Who? The richest Finns in the world. Financial tax, okay, that's all right. Why did you not do it if there was already a model in Denmark, during the last parliamentary term, when you had a finance minister and you had many other important ministers, but you were another leading government party? Why? We now have a situation where we will probably have the same party as a partner that is not warm on this issue, and compromises will have to be made. As far as government debt is concerned, the sum of the budget is a certain amount. It is well over 5 billion this year and will decrease in the next few years. But you cut the central government shares of municipalities cumulatively by EUR 5 billion in the last period, and the municipalities were in debt between 13 and 18 billion in the last parliamentary term. In other words, as a result of your measures, the municipalities became heavily indebted last season and laid off people and workers, laid off and so on. Now that doesn't happen very much. Local government finances are taken care of, and municipal services are taken care of through this way. You sold government property. And that too must be calculated when productive property is sold, to that result. And that repair debt, which I have already mentioned, is now being reduced by EUR 600 million by the government to repair roads and repairs. You didn't shorten anything. You grew it all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u80	Mr President! These speeches by the previous representative sometimes make me feel as if I were in the movie as the marmot of my day. Many times here we review the options of the SDP, but for some reason they do not get there. That is why I ask you, Mr President, whether I need to tell you once again in this speech the relationship between the Socialists and the debt ratio or the rise in the overall tax rate or anything else, because I would not wish to prolong this debate now by going through it many times. I would hope that the Members here will respect each other's speeches to the extent that they do not keep repeating those incorrect points. But now to the original topic of discussion, security of supply, and hence to this increase in gas tax. Is it not the case, however, that before the elections the Finns said that the gas tax should not be increased; on the contrary, it should be reduced? Isn't this not what happened now? We're about to increase the gas tax? Isn't this amazing in itself, because before the elections, the Finns of Finland had an expensive advertising campaign, among other things, that there were no more subsidies to Greece, and no matter how much it was, last summer was done? Soini One, the third package of support for Greece?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u83	Mr President! First of all, I would like to comment on this increase in fuel tax. Even Foreign Minister Soini made it very clear that it was based on the fact that the EU denied that we could not increase the sugar tax. 109 million had to be compensated for with it. Surely you are well aware that the Finns of Peru would not have wanted to raise the VAT or fuel tax. With regard to security of supply, I would like to say that the good news really is that Neste Corporation is challenging the oil refining industry by providing increasingly clean fuel solutions and these applications based on renewable raw materials. We have expertise in Finland, even internationally appreciated, and we can guarantee this in our own security of supply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u84	For the history books, such an adjustment that during the previous government period there was a bank tax but because of European arrangements it was abandoned and that is why Sweden wants to replace it with its own model, Norway wants to replace it with its own model. Such joint Nordic cooperation, especially when the largest banks Danske and Nordea are Nordic, is in order, and we can also lead Europe in this area. One final comment on that sweet tax. It is, of course, touching that the Finns of Peru always come and tell us that the EU is demanding and we must agree, but just a few weeks ago in Britain, Prime Minister Cameron published his own British sugar tax. Public health taxes are very welcome and their benefits are indisputable. That is the direction we should go, but the government apparently does not even read English magazines and has not looked at the model of the new sugar tax which, apparently, Britain is now getting through in the EU, we could have brought to Finland. Do you have any preparation for this? Do you have any will? Do you want such a positive tax on public health at all, or do you just want to bow down to both Brussels and your government partners?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u85	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u86	Mr President! This presentation brings a number of good changes. The amendments to the Road Law and the Railway Act also allow for the wider use of outside-budget funding to implement road and rail projects. In addition, it is possible to involve a road or track operator in the financing of non-road or rail infrastructure for specific reasons when the measure is linked to the tasks of a road or track operator. The placing of electric and telecommunications cables in road areas would be subject to the notification procedure in certain situations and so on. Roadside advertisements and notifications would be subject to the notification procedure and the conditions for advertising and notification would be reduced. All in all, this presentation is another excellent indication that when you take care of a matter, a wide range of unnecessary, old - fashioned provisions can easily be dismantled. This is once again one of these top government projects that can be greeted with joy. They will make life smoother, streamline administration and will also reduce red tape in many different ways.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u87	Mr President! Indeed, a representative. Mr Laukkanen's speech can be echoed: there are positive elements in this package of legislation, even two. Indeed, it is very important in the future that rail and road projects can be sought and funded more easily outside the traditional budget money, when we still need to mobilise viable transport investments across the country and find new innovative instruments. But, President-in-Office, I would like to draw attention to this second part of the draft law, to the fact that the proposal now makes it easier for businesses, organisers of various events, people to advertise various events along the road, thus facilitating business activity, facilitating the daily lives of citizens. This is precisely the aim of the process of streamlining government standards, which, by the way, every day the government is bringing forward proposals for this project. The general ban on the placing of roadside advertisements and notices in the current law has unnecessarily limited the opportunities for low-populated entrepreneurs to advertise their products or services, in particular. In future, then, there will be enough advertising for roadside advertising. For example, when a wedding ceremony is arranged, there is no need to report it at all, so this trouble will also be eliminated. However, I do not think that the draft law will weaken road safety because: The Finnish Transport Agency will provide clear guidance on the format, content and location of the advertisements. This, of course, also safeguards the equality of decisions. Advertising is also possible along highways and motorways without compromising safety. There has also been a lack of clarity with regard to the authorisations and notifications required. It is proposed that the regulation on advertising and advertising on the roadside should be amended in such a way as to remove the basic prohibition on the imposition of external advertising in the existing law and to move to the notification procedure in the setting up of advertisements and advertisements. In this, of course, digitalisation helps: e-mail is invented and can be used, and it makes everyday life easier for citizens. The notification procedure would no longer assess the need for advertising in terms of transport and tourism, as required by the existing provisions, but the restrictions on notification and advertising are based solely on road safety, road maintenance and the environment. There would be no need for a separate announcement of the temporary event or also of the announcement of elections or referendums, i.e. when the regional and municipal elections come, if colleagues want to put their pictures on the roadsides and trees, it will be easier. I don't think it's worth putting my picture in there anymore. The transition to the notification procedure for the placement of roadside advertisements, notifications and certain electricity and telecommunications cables will also reduce the administrative burden on companies and, of course, will also reduce the costs for companies. However, during the transitional period by the end of 2019 operators with derogations for roadside advertising granted for an indefinite period may incur costs for the submission of notifications under the new regulatory provisions required by the transitional provision. The proposed transitional period is long so that operators do not incur excessive costs and administrative burdens. Mr President! I hope that this will be dealt with quickly in committee and that we will see from a practical point of view how people's daily lives can be facilitated and business promoted around the world, especially in those sparsely populated areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u88	Mr President! I am very grateful that this law has now been brought to this stage. I'm from Sodankylä. In that area, entrepreneurs along the Raudanjoki of Sodankylä have worked tremendously on this issue. There is, among other things, a propeller park that has had to remove its propeller from sight, and their little notes, their advertisements have constantly been displayed, whether they are in it or not, and they have been removed and removed and removed again and again. This has been completely incomprehensible and absurd. Now their actions make sense. Even in the area where I am, there really is not so much business and housing, and the small, small advertisements that happen to be on the side of the road are just such a nice stimulant for passersby that what is there. So thank you for this proposal, and I am sure that we in the committee will be happy to take this forward. Of course, we in the committee will certainly also see to it that road safety is not going to be jeopardised and that there is no extra red tape being built here, because this proposal is a de-bureaucratic exercise, if that is to say, the management of unnecessary, unnecessary bureaucracy. I hope that this can now be done in a sensible way and that we will be able to prevent even the small points from being prevented from simply accidentally leaving some extra regulation inside. Other good things from the point of view of tourism in Lapland are also this issue of rail transport, which means that snowmobiles, for example, have not been able to cross the rail network from just anywhere at the moment. This bill now provides an opportunity to cross the railway lines. However, security and similar issues in the region must be taken into account here too, but we will now have sensible action to put into practice in accordance with this. And we certainly do not mind now, even though we will be able to put more rational, better, easier, so that we do not have to start explaining them. All right, if the instructions also come in what is a reasonable way, and it is good that there are instructions about the location and content. I believe that, according to Finnish good manners, these matters will continue to be handled.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u89	Mr President! The purpose of this proposal is indeed to harmonise the provisions of the Road Law and the Railway Act and the way in which the laws are recorded. The amendment of the Road Law and the Railway Act would also allow for a wider use of non-budgetary funding to carry out road and rail projects. In addition, it would be possible to involve a road or track operator in the financing of non-road and rail infrastructure for specific reasons when the measure is linked to a road or track operator’s tasks. Then there is also the fact that 'the placing of electric and telecommunications cables in the road area would be subject to a notification procedure in certain situations', which is a welcome change. All in all, it is to be welcomed that the laws and regulations concerning the period of validity of the general, road and rail plans should be harmonised, and that any solutions of this kind, in the name of the dismantling of standards, are always good and should be commended to the government. The 2014 reform has now taken place in two consultation rounds, with as many opinions as 80. These comments have as a general rule been very positive, but problems with the details have also been identified in a number of opinions. I personally feel that this is a rather wide-ranging package of laws, the impact of which must be carefully assessed in the Committee on Transport and Communications. However, the public powers now being delegated to the Finnish Transport Agency should be of a technical and well-defined nature. From a constitutional point of view, it is challenging how much discretion can be transferred while ensuring that good governance is dealt with with with the right to appeal, and I would also like to stress, at least to this day, that the financing of transport routes must, in principle, be budget-based, although all the new innovations and funding channels that can be used today and used in the coming years are very welcome and must be exploited. Then there is the emphasis on the lifting of the ban on roadside advertising.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u90	Mr President! I think that the government proposal before us is very good and worthy of support. It is dismantling unnecessary bureaucracy, which has been the government's big line throughout this parliamentary term. The fact that the new Road and Rail Act will allow the use of extra-budgetary funding for road and rail projects is very welcome. We have a lot of construction needs for the road network and the network, and it is good that funding opportunities are diversified. That is a welcome change. A very good change is also the fact that the procedure for notification of the placement of electrical and telecommunications cables is available. From experience, I can tell you that when the Ilomantsi, my municipality of residence, is built on these days — or, in fact, on the coming summer — a fibre network covering the whole municipality, believe it or not, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the use of fibre cables under the track in certain places or the exploitation of roads or bridges when cables are drawn between two villages, the placement of these cables and the obtaining of permits was quite difficult. The machines could have had to wait eight months for permission from one engineer who sits at the Tampere office. Eight months were standing on his desk, and then there was permission for you to get that 200 meters of cable by the road to dig. It doesn't make any sense. It represents the Czar regime. In the current digital age, we take advantage of the obligation to notify — let them know that the cable is coming in there, the plans are here and let's get it over with. It saves millions of dollars a year. It is extremely important that such procedures are increasingly used, that unnecessary bureaucracy is put to an end and that the focus is on work. Mr President! Finally, we have made a number of applications to put up certain signs along the roads, for example for tourism purposes, in my municipality of Ilomants and also in the province of North Karelia. It has been difficult to put them up, but we are now getting rid of this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u91	Mr President! This is a very important issue, although it may seem a small matter. In that sense, this is a key project in the Government Programme to streamline and reduce the administrative burden. I think it is very important to make roadside advertising more flexible. A well-known amusement park and playground had to wait months, almost years, to get their official ad over there on the highway. I agree with Mrs Maijala that it is important to have these announcements so that people know what is happening in Lapland and other tourist areas, for example. Of course, road safety must be respected. We cannot make a poster jungle like that in the United States, for example, and, of course, the right of appeal must also be taken into account if someone has a great deal to accept. Indeed, the placing of electric and telecommunications cables in road areas will be subject to the notification procedure. That is a good thing in certain situations, and it is indeed a way to lighten this procedure. Of course, caution and safety must also be exercised.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u92	Mr President! The new financing models for transport projects have been considered for a long time and during the last period there was a parliamentary repair team which also presented its own models. In this respect, it is good and excellent that this change in legislation now contributes to the discovery of new forms. Although there are grounds for financing large projects through the budget, we must also think that these projects will serve decades ahead and can therefore be used for more than annual budget funding. These models should be promoted by the government as quickly as possible, and certainly they will. As far as the dismantling of these standards is concerned, and hence the dismantling of bureaucracy, I recall that when I came to Parliament 28 or 29 years ago, the government programme was already the subject of the dismantling of standards, bureaucracy, and probably before and after that almost every government programme. It must now be said with pleasure that the government is moving forward here — on the basis of the work of the previous government, but that is what we are now dealing with. This is going to the notification procedure on a number of issues, and that is very good. This serves people when this advertising can be reasonable and appropriate. Of course, it must be appropriate and neat, but it should not be as crowded as it is now. As far as election advertising is concerned, we in Central Finland have had an agreement between parties for more than 20 years that wild roadside advertising is not practiced. I myself am very pleased that we do not have them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u93	Mr President! While I have been here in the Committee on Transport and Tourism for over a decade, we have been talking about these alternative forms of financing, and how the routes can really be financed. This law now includes the fact that the amendment of the Road Act and the Railway Act will also allow for a wider use of non-budgetary funding for road and rail projects. We know that the Ministry of Finance has been in this for many years, but I have now realised that there would even be sympathy for this. What, then, would the model be, would it be some kind of infrastructure company, which would also have this road stock as property on the balance sheet there, and would then be credited to the investment banks, the pension insurance companies? When this new infrastructure package was presented, for example, it is a good package as such, but there were quite a few so-called second basket projects that were not carried out, such as Three-way to Ostrobothnia and then Mrs Ala-Nissilä's important Ysitie, which connects Varsinais-Suomi to Eastern Finland. These projects could then also be at a time when such an infrastructure company exists as a financier. In that regard, it must also be borne in mind that they must be vital to their livelihoods. Of course, there are railway projects and other projects in large cities and they are important for the construction industry, they are housing projects, but it is precisely if we think about our business life, the bioeconomy and all these transports that we need to get better on these main roads of the kingdom. Sweden has acted in the long term and they have been entrusted with those baskets. They have been made for decades and have not been done in such a way as before that the next government will wipe out the plans of the previous government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u94	Mr President! There has certainly been a good debate here on how entrepreneurs in particular are now being served and their activities, especially in sparsely populated areas, in connection with this roadside advertising. This is something that has become a lot of feedback for years, is there nothing we can do about it, and it has been said that the EU has so much influence and nothing can be done about it. As part of the dismantling of government standards, now that we have started to explore these issues, things really can be influenced. From the outset, one should think not to ban things, but to enable and clearly give entrepreneurs and operators clear instructions on how to advertise their services so that, above all, our tourists are able to find these tourist destinations, especially in the north and east of Finland. This has been a particular problem, how to find and then sell those services to customers. All in all, there has also been talk about whether this applies to major highways and motorways. In this context, it has now been clarified that, with this TEN network, this other EU legislation will have an impact on this issue. There is a need to make a strong move not to hide behind the EU on this issue either, but to find a solution so that this road-side advertising is possible on these big roads as well. This is precisely the case for these long-term studies and for the companies there, especially those in the tourism sector, for whom it is important that when you go on a long trip with your family, you can quickly find the accommodation services, catering services and others that we have in the north in particular. This is a very good proposal from the government. Thank you for this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u95	Mr President! Just a brief example: on Hirvaskanka, I am sure the President knows the place, has ABC's big ad on the side of the road and is Shell's ad. There's a small business grill on the other side of the road. He hasn't been allowed to put an ad there. The Ely Center has banned it. Now, on the basis of a government proposal, I'm sure you can do this and even a small entrepreneur can get on his feet. This is how we contribute to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u96	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 5/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u97	Mr President! I am presenting this bill and this report because the actual chairman of the Committee on Transport and Tourism is on a trip to Asia, and I will now do so as Vice-President. It is proposed that a new motor insurance law should be introduced here, and these changes would clarify and in part improve the position and rights of policyholders and victims. Indeed, the committee is very pleased that, after a long and thorough preparation, this comprehensive reform of the Motor Insurance Act can come into force from the beginning of 2017. According to the proposal, the insurance policy holder's history of damage must be taken into account in the determination of motor insurance contributions by individuals. This is precisely because the committee has considered the current regulation and its application to be problematic, according to which, despite the obligation to take account of the history of damage, when a private individual takes out insurance for his second car, no bonus credits are granted for the use of the so-called first car. This will allow insurance companies to take greater account of the damage history in situations like this in the future. There has been some need for change here, and in the expert consultation there has been a lack of ability to take out motor insurance for wheelchairs and similar light-structured mobility equipment for disabled people since the beginning of 2016. The committee proposes below that these tools, which are essential for the everyday mobility of many people with disabilities, be brought within the scope of the motor insurance system. The committee proposes that these vehicles be exempted from the obligation to take out motor insurance and that any damage caused by them be compensated by the Centre for Motor Insurance. In addition, the committee considers, on the basis of the criteria set out in the detailed explanatory memorandum below, that the proposal is intended to maintain the protection of the driver's place in respect of motor racing in the future. There has been some discussion about whether this is right. On the other hand, motor sports are also youth work. In the proposal, this protection had been proposed to be removed, but the committee does not consider it appropriate that insurance cover for motorsporters should be substantially reduced and that the costs of competition activities should increase as a result of higher insurance premiums for voluntary insurance. There's a lot of stuff here, of course, but I'll just take one more quote from here. "In addition, the Committee notes that further efforts are needed to clarify how cases of inadequacy According to a report received by the committee, insurance companies in Sweden, for example, have the possibility to terminate motor insurance in situations such as this." In the Malmålvakt region, for example, there has been a so-called bilmålvakt phenomenon, i.e. there are cars trolling between owners all the time so that no motor insurance is made and no insurance is paid. There are cases, criminal cases, which, despite their young age, have owned dozens of different cars but have avoided these motor insurance policies. This phenomenon may also come to Finland, and that is why insurance companies have been a little concerned about this, because then, of course, we ordinary insurers will also pay for the damage of these people if they do it in traffic. Here was about the content. Of course there are many other details, but let them not be told on this occasion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u98	Mr President! I would like to say very briefly from this point of view that first of all, in good cooperation with the Committee on Transport and Communications, this draft government bill has been discussed, and I must say that Mrs Alatalo, Vice-President of the Committee on Transport and Communications, has actually presented in her own speech just the pain points that were raised in the committee, in a very broad and comprehensive way. We really noticed these two clear flaws in the government's proposal in this substance committee. The second concerned motor vehicle insurance for disabled persons and the second concerned the protection of the driver's seat in motor vehicle competitions. On the basis of the expert consultations, we changed these two points now that we were discussing this own report, and with those amendments the committee unanimously supported the adoption of this legislative proposal. I would also like to emphasise that there was indeed a wider debate in committee on this, too, that it will be necessary in the future to find out how to deal more effectively with these deliberate cases of non-payment of motor insurance premiums. However, there are also good examples in neighbouring countries that, so to speak, one’s purse and the other’s payment will not continue to go forward. This was a very comprehensive, good package and is also to be supported from the point of view of the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u99	Mr President! Just as the previous speakers have said, we in the Committee on Transport and Communications have dealt with this very carefully. At that point at least I have the impression that we already have a fairly well-functioning package of motor insurance, and now it has been slightly improved. The main problem has been the impact on the second car in these motor insurance cases, because traditionally it has been the case that even the good bonuses on the first car have not received compensation since the second car. But now it is good that in the future the damage history of the second car can also be taken into account flexibly. If there have been no bigger events, it can be taken into account. Now I am simply encouraging insurance companies to take and make models that would have taken this issue into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u100	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Transport and Communications, LiVM 6/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u101	Mr President! The International Convention on the handling of ballast on ships aims to prevent the spread of alien species into waters to which they do not belong. The agreement is important because alien species can displace indigenous species in existing water bodies and lead to natural imbalances and also major economic losses. That is also what the Committee on the Environment has said, and they are behind this change. The committee welcomes the objectives of the Convention but also sees some problems in this Convention. The measures of the agreement are not always fully justified, but they increase the costs of shipping, and some experts do not believe that all the equipment is working properly. However, just yesterday there was an article in the press that, for example, Wärtsilä says that foreign species can also be removed from ballast water under Finnish conditions. Olof Widén, Managing Director of the Finnish Shipowners’ Association, was suspected of this, and Wärtsilä claims that they have equipment that is also certified to operate in cold, cold and turbulent and low-salt waters. Some 60 companies operate ballast water cleaning facilities around the world. It has been criticised that they have been accepted under test conditions but not in practice. But now there is also such information that it should work. This problem of freezing applies to ballast tanks in general. They are expensive equipment, from EUR 100,000 to approximately EUR 1 million. Of course, I also understand very well the concerns of the shipping companies on this issue. In any case, it is also very important from a scientific point of view: the conditions in the Baltic Sea, the opacity of the water, the low salinity, the low temperature in winter may reduce this performance of ballast water treatment equipment, and this is a major concern. According to the Government's proposal, the cost impact on the investment of ballast water treatment equipment would be approximately EUR 150 million in shipping to Finland. Given that the sulphur directive has now been behind it, there is a nitrogen directive and other burdens, of course it is understandable that the transport sector is also slightly concerned about this. This leads to operating costs and administrative costs. It should be noted that some of these vessels also serve transport from other countries. However, this creates a burden on Finnish shipping and the export industry. It is important that the Convention is globally equal, but the overall cost of the expert consultation has indeed been considered to be high and that, in order to minimise the cost, it should be ensured that the handling equipment actually works. The IMO has declared the Baltic Sea to be a particularly sensitive sea area, and the committee therefore considers it important that the implementation of the Convention should ensure the protection of the Baltic Sea. This also applies, of course, to third countries bordering the Baltic Sea. The problem with short sea shipping is that ports are close to each other, where species do not differ very much. This way, for example, when travelling from Estonia to Finland, distances are shorter than from Hamina to Kemi. In Sweden, when travelling from the west coast to the east coast, it is also a question of domestic traffic, even though it is a matter of quite different types of sea. So this is not a simple matter. Water systems also vary. Finally, there is the issue of inland waterways in Finland. In particular, Saimaa — including the Saimaa Canal, where international shipping is located — is a particularly sensitive and valuable area. Of course, it would also be desirable for the waters of the ships not to be accompanied by these alien organisms. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u102	Mr President! It is important for us to consider how we can influence the costs of maritime transport. We are working on the Nitrates Directive, the Nitrogen Oxide, the SECA and the NECA, and now on this ballast water issue. All of these costs increase for our maritime transport. Of course, we must take into account that Finland is not alone and that these costs are borne by other countries. But for Finland, this is particularly difficult and difficult because Finnish export traffic is entirely dependent on maritime transport and its operation. These three things that I mentioned, in practice, will now have to be accepted and applied in Finland, and we need to think about how we could, however, help our maritime transport, that our export activities would be profitable in the future and that our employment and jobs in Finland could be safeguarded. This ballast water presentation is very good in itself, as long as we can get the equipment working as well. We held a debate in committee on whether it is enough to act in accordance with the regulations, or whether it is really important that these regulatory devices also work, and yes, both in the Committee on the Environment and in the Committee on Transport and Communications, in which I am both, Members consider it important that it should also be good that they do, because it is certainly not appropriate,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u103	Mr President! The vice-president of the Committee on Transport and Communications presented this report quite well, as has been the case in the Committee on Transport and Communications. I am also a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection was the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in this proposal, and that is why I have just a few words. In other words, seriously, this international convention aims to prevent the spread of alien species into waters where they do not belong. This agreement is important because alien species can replace the original species in existing water bodies and lead to natural imbalances and also major economic losses. All in all, two major concerns emerged in both the committee hearings: the fact that the equipment mentioned here today does not work, and the second is that this convention will add to the costs of shipping once again. However, in the committee of reports, in the Committee on Transport and Communications, we considered it of paramount importance that Finland adopt this convention so that Finland can be involved in the further development of this agreement and, of course, to remedy the shortcomings that this agreement contains. That's why you have to be at tables and contracts, of course. I personally feel that the most important thing is that we monitor this technology’s performance — or should I say that it is inaction — and then Finland should actively participate in the work carried out within the IMO, among other things, to ensure this. Then, as far as these shipping costs are concerned in general, this proposal also brings costs to Finnish shipping and export industries, as has been done by many, many proposals and agreements and laws. Indeed, I am talking not only about the period of this parliamentary term, that is, less than a year, but more than a few years in general, and at some point in this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u104	And Mr. Alatalo.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-13-ps-37.u105	Mr President! Representative Taimela expressed great concern about this cost development in our export industry when such restrictions are being imposed. After all, we have done this report in committee with very good cooperation, but then, on the other hand, if we look at how important the Baltic Sea region is and how vulnerable it is, we should be able to solve this problem of ballast water. After all, there are many species of foreign species living in the Finnish seas, the most famous of which is the seapox that is probably involved in the construction of the docks. Among other things, Wärtsilä is one of the companies that manufacture devices to remove alien species. For smaller vessels, the equipment is suitable to filter out crabs and fish and then treat the water with ultraviolet light, which kills microorganisms or makes them at least infertile. There is a system for chlorinated water after filtration for large vessels, and this should then eliminate those organisms and also their reproduction. So this is a big deal. Of course, in Finland we want nature and the sea to remain unique in what is our natural habitat. We don't want too many alien species coming in here. In any case, they will, but this agreement on ballast handling and this law can prevent and combat this quite well. Let us hope that those equipment will indeed become cheaper. We are monitoring their development so that this does not impose too much burden on our shipping and export industries.
