ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-130.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 43/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. Mr Haatainen, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-130.u2	Irade the Talman! Regeringen föreslår att den specialiserade sjukården centraliseras och att bestammelserna för prehospital akutsjukård och brådskande vård ses över. Den specialiseserade sjukården ska concentreras till större enheter. Dossutom concentreras sällsenta och krävande ingrepp regionalt och nationalellt. Vidare ändras bestemmelserna om socialjour och tillgången och tillgängligheten till socialvård i socialvårdslagen. Brådskande mottagningsverksamhet inom primärvården föreslås bli utbyggd på älsovårdscentralerna och effecter behov också på poliklinikker inom specialiserad sjukård. Vanliga brådskande älsoproblem kan skotas på närservice på vardagskvällar eller på dagtid på veckosluten. Då behöver patienterna inte ta sig till samjouren, en kan ligga längre bort. Det gör det lättare att ta hand om empelvis sedvanliga brådskande älsoproblem bland barn på närmaste älsovårdscentral effecter föräldrarnas arbetsdag. Inom socialvården är tanken att förbättra tillgången och tillgängligheten till sociala tjänster på lusta villkor vid sidan av älso- och sjukgård. Vidare ska socialvården bli mer clintorienterad och övergripande för att tillgodose clienternas behov och säkerstalla att de får stöd i sin invanda omgivning. Genom de föreslagna ändringarna vill man styra reformen av sjukhusnätet och jourenheterna. Med omstruktureringarna av den specialiserade sjukgården, centralisering av jouren dygnet runt och större integration av social- och älsovården kan man dastampa kostnadsstegringen i den specialiserade sjukården och generala besparingar redan innan social- och älsovårdsreformen har genomförts full ut. Jourreformen träder i kraft huvudsaklgen från och med 2018 och speraffekterna stärks med social- och halsovårdsreformen som träder i kraft 2019. En betydande del av spareffekterna infaller dock effect 2020. Utskottet anser målen med propositionnen, det vill säga tillgång till service på lusta villkor, adekva kometens och ög kvalitet och satsningar på klient- och patientsäkerhet reserve mycket viktiga. Följaktligen tilstryker utskottet lagförslagen, närmast med vis ändringar somberor på utlåtandet från grundlagsutskottet. Verkställandet av reformen måste bevaka.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-130.u3	Mr President! I now present a joint protest from the Socialists, the Greens and the Christians. Mr President! Firstly, we believe that on-call reform is very necessary. The on-call reform is an important package that proposes the pooling of special care in larger units and the concentration of rare or demanding measures, as well as improving provisions on social emergency services and access to social care. In addition, it is proposed to increase the emergency reception of primary health care in health centres so that the availability of local services is improved on weekdays and weekends. We believe that this reform is necessary and that it is necessary, as the committee's report also states, to bring on-call special care activities in larger units and to develop the division of work between hospitals in order to ensure equal access to services and good knowledge and patient safety. We also support the emphasis on the role of social emergency services as part of the reform and the strengthening of basic health care. However, there are no grounds for speeding up the on-call reform in the 2017 budget. We consider it impossible to set a timetable for the processing of the law, for which there is no justification other than the accession of the law to the 2017 budget. We do not believe that the savings targets set for the on-call reform will be jeopardised by the fact that sufficient time is set aside in committee for the examination of the law. As stated in the committee's report, the austerity requirements for on-call reform are essentially linked to the reform of social welfare and health care. The savings effects of the on-call reform, which will come into force mainly from the beginning of 2018, will be strengthened from 2019 onwards, and a significant part of the savings will be realised after 2020. In this respect, the 50 million savings required for next year, 2017 will not be made in accordance with the requirement of this Act. We note that, in general, the consultation of experts has also called into question the achievement of the proposed savings targets in many areas. The reform of the emergency services system and the hospital network is essentially linked to the overall reform of social welfare and health care. As the committee's report also states, the intended reduction of ward care needs the overall functioning of the system, which requires the development of care processes and rehabilitation. It is also essential to prevent the need for more expensive services. Service integration and digitalisation and their strengthening are essentially related to the on-call reform. We believe that the on-call reform is an integral part of the future reform of social security and should be dealt with in this context, not as a separate part of social security. It should also be noted that we do not believe that deciding on the hospital network without further information on the content of the freedom of choice sought by the government meets the criteria for good legislative drafting. The legislation on freedom of choice for social and health services will determine where, for example, the surgical functions of specialised medical care are to be incorporated and covered by the competitive market. In this respect, we do not know how freedom of choice will come about in the future. Without sufficient information, we cannot decide on-call hospitals. In order to safeguard linguistic rights, we also believe that the Hospital District of Vaasa should have been included in the list of hospitals, which is not happening in this proposal. Emergency services must also be based on careful preparation. The government did not allow a thorough examination of the matter. We expect the committee to have sufficient information to provide a basis for decision-making and to have time to examine the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which came only a few days ago. Since this opinion, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has made changes to the articles which, in our view, require a new assessment and consideration in the Constitutional Committee. We stress the importance of on-call reform as a provider of high-quality and functional specialised medical care and social emergency services. The law therefore requires careful treatment, which is now not possible for Parliament. We have proposed suspending the matter in committee and extending it in the 2017 Parliament, together with the legislative package of the social and health reform to be adopted at that time. We believe that the committee has not had sufficient grounds for adopting the draft law, which is why it should not be adopted in the form set out in the report. That is why we will be presenting at second reading the wreckage of this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-130.u4	Mr President! The Greens are involved in this rejection motion, which has been presented above, and we will be supporting it at second reading. As far as I am concerned, it is very necessary that the on-call reform should be carried out, but, as has been said above, the timetable for handling this on-call network has been impossible. It has been too busy, and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has not been able to sufficiently investigate the matter. For example, we have not received the necessary cost estimates and impact assessments and we have not been able to adequately assess whether this draft law meets the clarifications required by the Constitutional Committee as regards the exercise of linguistic rights. It is questionable that this proposal for a hospital emergency service network will be imported less than six months before the government has promised to bring a social welfare proposal to Parliament. It follows that this bill will be in force for about a year before it is opened and then synchronised with the legislation on social services, and this cannot be regarded as sensible or democratic in any way. For the work of the committee, it would have been good for the committee to have been aware of what the proposal for social protection is going to contain. For example, it is completely open to what freedom of choice legislation includes and what services the government intends to enter into as a whole. I very much regret the fact that the Vaasa Hospital has now been left out of these full emergency hospitals by a government proposal and legislation that has been trampled through the government, and I question, for example, the arguments on which the government relies. They are completely inadequate. For example, according to the information received by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, there is no savings coming from the end of this full-service emergency service in Vaasa. Then, on the other hand, it is very questionable whether the wording of the article now contained in the government proposal will be able to adequately safeguard linguistic rights in Seinäjoki. For example, the Ministry of Justice issued an opinion to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on this draft law, and this expert opinion from the Ministry of Justice states very clearly that it is not possible to assess the impact of the regulation contained in this draft law on the linguistic rights system as a whole within the given timeframe and on the basis of the information provided. The Ministry of Justice also notes that the organisation of services in Swedish in a monolingual, Finnish-speaking area is in practice very challenging. It cannot be assumed that the staff’s linguistic resources are sufficient, and recruiting staff who effectively control the Swedish language is challenging. If the number of Swedish-speaking patients is relatively low, the staff's ability to maintain language skills is also very low. And: Given the lack of precision in the coverage of rights, the essential deviations from the way in which linguistic rights are regulated and the challenge of implementing linguistic rights in practice, this proposed regulation does not seem to best effect linguistic rights. In my opinion, the opinion of the Ministry of Justice states very well that the proposal for this draft law on the need to implement Swedish-speaking services in Seinäjoki formally fulfils the requirement set out in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but in practice it does not safeguard them. In other words, in my view, we cannot guarantee in any way the implementation of linguistic rights in practice in Seinäjoki on the basis of this draft law discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. In view of these comments, I myself am very sorry that, when we voted in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health that the Constitutional Committee could still have looked at the report by our committee and these paragraphs, the vote there was then lost and the government parties practically ran through this bill. So we now have in our hands a bill that the government is taking forward, even though we have no guarantee that it will secure Swedish-speaking services in Vaasa, and that in practice means, for example, that we will not have any guarantee that this will ensure patient safety or the ability of staff to rely on their own actions and that the safety of patients will not be compromised. I find this very regrettable, and that is why this bill should definitely be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-130.u5	Mr President! The government's proposal for a law amending the Health Care Act and the Social Welfare Act, i.e. more familiarly on-call reform, is a farce. It is a farce both in terms of content and procedures. Firstly, it is downgraded by the level of legislation and the value of Parliament that such an important issue is dealt with in such a hurry. Secondly, it is absurd to make such a significant reform of the service structure just prior to the reform of the social security system. The order of procedure blurs the whole process of social welfare reform and takes power away from the region. The on-call reform takes the power from the region to make work-sharing decisions based on the needs of its region and regional structure and cost-effective between hospitals in relation to the division of work and the organisation of services in emergency services and surgery. It is strange that it is decided first to build self-government provinces, which are responsible for social services, but then their hands will be tied before they start. The question arises as to why the regions themselves are not allowed to decide on the division of work between hospitals within the framework of economic framework conditions and quality criteria. Why does the government want to define from Helsinki where the regions are allowed to organise their services? Mr President! The desire to centralise the government may still be costly, even if it seeks savings. In Northern Ostrobothnia, for example, the decision means the end of Raahe's operations and the centralisation of operations in Oulu. This makes no sense, as the determined division of labour in the hospital district has guaranteed high-quality and cost-effective services. At the same time, the good service level of Raahe Regional Hospital has been guaranteed. When the operations are concentrated in Oulu, it is likely to mean an increase in expensive purchasing services, increasing queues, as the capacity of the central hospital may not be sufficient for the increasing number of operations. The result of this government’s forced centralisation may therefore be an increase in costs in addition to the dismantling of services at Raahe Regional Hospital. A similar situation lies ahead in many other areas. This situation creates a service vacuum in many places. In order to meet this, perhaps private health service companies will run, and the question arises as to whether this is one of the underlying ideas of concentration. I understand that centralisation and the creation of a living space for private health service companies are well suited to the ideology of the Coalition Party, but I wonder why the Centre Party and the Basic Finns accept this. Why does the centre that fought for the provinces and speaks against centralisation approve of this concentration of power and power in the regions and regions to come? Mr President! Earlier today there was a proposal on the table of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health which would have allowed a regionally sensible division of labour between hospitals. Unfortunately, the committee finally adopted the report in accordance with the government's proposal, i.e. the hands of the hospital districts and the future provinces will be tied before they can begin. They shall not take reasonable, justified and cost-effective decisions on the division of labour between hospitals in their territory. I can't help but wonder. Mr President! The Government's proposal does not take sufficient account of the rights of the Swedish-speaking population in Ostrobothnia. It would be simple and best for the realisation of linguistic rights to allow Vaasa to organise extensive emergency services. A large proportion of the residents of the Vaasa region are Swedish-speaking, so it would be justified to allow Vaasa to continue to organise a large number of emergency services for the realisation of linguistic rights. Mr President! The question arises as to why the government is not content to define the quality requirements and the level of funding for cutting and on-call operations and to allow the regions themselves to decide on the service structure in the most sensible way and taking account of the specific characteristics of the region. Why cannot the on-call reform wait for the reform of social security? Mr President! On these grounds, the Left Alliance supports the proposals made by the RKP in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and, if not, rejects the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-130.u6	Mr. Speaker! The reform of the Health Care Act and the Social Welfare Act is indeed a major and significant reform. This reform makes it possible to divide the work of hospitals. Hospitals that do more than demanding procedures are able to perform these procedures with patient safety, quality and appropriate indications. When this reform also seeks savings, it is clear that, if patient safety and quality are taken care of, it will save costs due to complications, but especially if these are concentrated in larger hospitals, it will provide assurances that we are taking action with the right indications so that we do not just work according to what the interests of each surgeon or specialist happen to be. In future, Mr President, this law will provide the framework for a regulation to be able to provide for this division of labour between hospitals in greater detail. This reform will create this network of 12 large emergency hospitals, which will gather all the knowledge needed for the rarer diseases, but in other central hospitals, the current emergency preparedness will largely remain. When previous speeches have criticised why this is being done just before the legislation on social services was completed and when the legislation on social security came into force, we must remember that this is precisely the preparation for that reform of social security. I used a metaphor in the committee that the regions should not be surprised by their pants, that is, the aim now is for hospitals to be prepared, the regions to be prepared for what will be done in our region in the future. This law contains a very important reform of the emergency reception system in primary health care, that is to say, when today, in a large number of health centres, there is only daytime, office time on-call activity and this has congested joint emergency services, this legislation is now correcting the situation so that these health centres are also obliged to make emergency receptions on weekdays and also on weekends so that people get their services closer than they are today, with less congestion and fewer queues than they are today. The excellent thing about this law is also the gathering of social emergency services in connection with health care emergency services, so that when health care personnel at their own emergency clinics see that someone needs social care services, they can immediately be referred to social emergency services. Mr President! Some word about the situation in Vaasa. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health has made the amendments required by the Constitutional Committee, which, of course, are not the most elegant solution to this language issue. Of course, it is challenging, as Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto said there, that a Swedish-language service can be provided at Seinäjoki Central Hospital. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to mention which patients may be transferred from there to Seinäjoki. In my opinion, there is a shortage of neurological expertise in Vaasa, and when we know that we have a shortage of neurologists in this country, it is by no means very simple to build a neurological clinic and a neurological emergency care system in Vaasa, and moreover the gap between Vaasa and Seinäjoki in neurology is not so great that it necessarily means that patients from Vaasa would be transferred to Seinäjoki, but are likely to be taken directly to a university central hospital. Ladies and gentlemen, one thing left the little one to be tormented, and that is Article 45(3) of the Health Care Act, this proposal, which determines that ex-regional hospitals, i.e. smaller hospitals, must not perform anesthetic surgery. This will, of course, create major difficulties in some medical districts, at least in Northern Ostrobothnia, that the treatment guarantee limits are maintained. To date, however, in Northern Ostrobothnia and the Northern Erva region, a joint decision has been taken on the way in which hospital activities are carried out, and quite similar joint decisions will probably be taken in the future after the beginning of 18. But it must still be remembered that otherwise other surgical procedures can still be carried out in these smaller hospitals. There can be surgical clinics, there can be surgical emergency services during the day, and in that way the operating rooms are certainly not going to be empty there in smaller hospitals. It is possible, of course, that this ban on surgery will lead to the privatisation of former regional hospitals, in addition to the privatisation decisions that have been taken so far. Mr President! All in all, the bill is a good and welcome one. It prepares itself quite thoroughly for social reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-130.u7	Ärade Herr Talman! I dag script Finlands ricksdag history. Finland går från att vara en rättsstat med ett grundslagsstadgat skydd för minoriteter till att vara en republik med en en kelspårig och brutal majoritetsdiktatur. Vi bryter i practiceken med en författning som åtminstone på ett teoretiskt plan Jämställt våra TVå nationalspråk och medborgarnas rätt att få service på sitt eget språk, finska eller svenska. Riksdagens social- och helsovårdsutskott, och närmare bestamt regeringspartiernas representanter i detta utskottt har just skrivitt history, och det är en mycket, mycket ledsam sådan. Lagen om jourförordningen, den första biten av den stora social- och halsovårdsreformen, har variantt en fars eller snarare en tragedi från första början. Den långa utlåtandetiden för utkastet till lagförslag vissade sig vara en teater utan like. Minister Rehula underströk otliga gånger att regeringen lyssnar på fältet och därför var utlåtandetiden så lång. Och vad taile? Jo, över 700 critiska utlåtanden till trots så taile egentligen ingenting. Utkastet gick vidare till lagförslag enligt regeringens riktlinjer. Utlåtanderundan var alltså ren och skär teater. Hur tacks ni, basta regering? Hur tacks ni? Och already, ni tacks! Herr Talman! Behandlingen i ricksdage vissade att lagförslaget innehöll granva fel där lagberedningen i värsta fall medvetet tolkade ett tidigare utlåtande från grundlagsutskottet tvärtemot vad det var skrivet. Detta är i sig en skandal, men reagerade minister Rehula eller vår regering? Nej, det gjorde de inte. Riksdagens grundlagsutskott gav ett enhälligt utlåtande som ställer modellen 12+1 främst och ställer de språkliga rättigheterna bakom grundlagströsklen. Grundlagsutskottet säger att de språkliga rättigheterna måste tryggas i lag. "Tryggasilag "harframtillidagbetyttsevicientvåspråkiginstitution. I klartext: det har fram till i dag betyt att Södra Österbottens sjukårdsdistrikt brode ha blivit tvåspråkigt. Men i stället leverade minister Rehula ett förslag till paragrafskrivning om sätten till service på svenska där den är minimerad och uttryckligen begränsas till omfattande jour. I am not helt ny rättspraxis som aldrig anvants tidigare. När man tar i bruk aldrig tidigare frövad lagstiftning, i synnerhet när det gäller grundrättigheter, brode både lagberedning, utlåtanderunda och riksdagsbehandling vara grundlig. Men vad gör regeringspartiernas medlemmar i social- och hälsovårdsutskottet? Jo, först röstar de ner ett förslag om en Saklig behandlingstid och sedan röstar de ner ett förslag om att få höra justtieministeriets sakkunniga på språklagstiftning. I dag har de röstat ner förslaget om fulljour till Vasa som hade löst problemet med de grundlagsenliga rättigheterna och sedan har de röstat ner ett förslag om att som miniaåtgärd åtminstone begära ett komletterande utlåtande från grundlagsutskottet. Det handlar om grundlagsenliga ragtigheter. Hur tacks ni? Hur i hela fridens namn tacks ni? Och already, ni tacks! Herr Talman! I sådana ox stunder skulle man förvanta sig ledarskap från regeringspartiernas ordföranden. Grundlagsutskottet rain vad som var den basta lösningen, fulljour också till Vasa. Den främsta tjänstemannen för hela social- och älsovårdsreformen, Tuomas Pöysti, rain rakt ut att det är inte är en dyrare lösning. Men inget stöd för landsets Svenskspråkiga minoritet hörs från statsminister Juha Sipilä, inget stöd örs från finansminister Petteri Orpo och inget töd örs från utrikesminister Timo Soini. Mr Var är statsmännen? Var är den ledare som brode ha satt ne foten och sagt att räcker det, en ledare som hade sagt att billig regionalpolitik aldrig får gå före grundlagsenliga ragtigheter. Den leftaren finns inte i denna regering. Jag beklagar det djupt. Ni har i dag trampat på mig och mina ragtigheter som Svenskspråkig finländare. Ni har trampat på min föräldrageneration och på mina barn. Finland är mitt Fosterland. Min farfar och min morfar kämpade också för Fosterlandets självständighet i kriget. Vi kräver ingenting extra, vi vill bara ha vår rätt. Ledamot Rehn-Kivi kommer senare att framföra svenska ricksdagsgruppens reservation till lagförslaget. Eftersom det inte finns några planer för hur de språkliga rättigheterna ska förverkligas i Seinäjoki så vi vi ge regeringen tid att verkstalla sådana planer. Därför föreslår jag att ärrenget bordläggs till det plenum som hålls den 7.2.2017. — Tack.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-130.u8	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Vi är under dirt inför lagen — åtminstone borde det vara så. Vi har alla mosma grundrättigheter — åtminstone brode det vara så. Vårt land ska snart fylla 100år. Vi ska tillsammans, together, fira 100år av sjävständighet. Regeringens agerande i dag och de Senaste dagarna får mig ändå att tänka till. Vad är det för ett land jag bor i? Vilket är det Fosterland där jag och mina föräldrar och mina barn är födda? Varför vill inte regeringen ta till sig den lösning vad gäller framtidens sjukhusstruktur som skulle vara den optimala sett ur hela befolkningens intressen, som skulle garantera att landsets Svenskspråkiga befolkning för lång tid framöver skulle kunna kanna trygghet i sin vardag, och också uppleva att vi är lävärda i beslutfattarnas ögon. Nu väljer regeringen att med heider och tänder stå fast vid 12 fulljoursjukhus och väjer samtidigt att TVinga sjukhuset i Seinäjoki att till vasentliga delar bli TVåspråkigt. Alla vet vi i den raussalen att det är oerhört viktigt då vi är sjuka och svaga att vi får tala vårt modersmål, att vi kan lita på att bli förstådda, att den som läser vår patientjournal förstår vad det står i journalen. Hade regeringen haft en kärta omsorg om att nå ett rättvist beslut så hade det set annorlunda ut. Då hade vi inte suttit är i kväll alla nu, den rautiden, när klonckan är över tio på kvällen. Då hade vi också variant mycket gladare. Vi Hade municipalities gå ut ärifrån och vara över att vi klarar av att ta också svåra beslut tillsammans. I'm not going to let you have it. I'm not going to give it to you. Det är som man skulle befinna sig i en dikssänd Kafka-aktig reality-tv-serie som man hoppas är en mardröm, men som dessvärre heder och nu. Social- och halsovårdsministerieset tjänstämäns uppgifter till grundlagsutskottet har ifrågasatts starkt, det Senaste dygnet av överläkare Auvo Rauhala i Vasa. Det minsta jag begär av en rättsstat som Finland och av vår ricksdag, av oss alla, är att vi ges tillgång till verkliga fact, att vi som enskilda ledamöter ska kunna lita på våra ministerers tjänstemän. Det ox förtroendet är nu mycket starkt rubbas. Därför hade det minsta variety att social- och älsovårdsutskottet hade hela packagetet tillbaka till grundlagsutskottet. Varför gjorde man inte det? I rädsla för att få fel resultat? Det kan vä ändå inte vara så att vi i det ox huset eller i regeringen är rädda för sanningen? Värderade riksdagskolleger, det vi har sett de Senaste dagarna, de Senaste timmarna, är inte värdigt en rättsstat som Finland. Tidigare talare har beteknat det som en tragedy. Det är en bottennotering, och vi kan battre. Jag vet att vi kan battre.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-130.u9	Herr Talman, Mr President! Basta kolleger! Jag ska för säkerhets skull inleda med att understöda ricksdagsledamot Mats Nylunds förslag om att brodlägga det ärendet efftersom ricksdagsledamot Henriksson glömde att göra det. Jag förenar mig med dem som ox har yttrat sin oro och sagt att de inte accepterar och godkänner att Finlands ricksdag på det här jättet amnar trampa ner på de grundläggande rättigheter som vi tillsammans och våra tidigare generaler har valt att befästa i grundlagen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-130.u10	Mats Nylund, supported by Maarit Feldt-Santa, has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session on 7 February 2017. So it stays on the table. Are there any other suggestions as to when to put them on the table?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-130.u11	Mr President! I would like to put the report on the table for the next plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-130.u12	Mr President! I support Mr Heikkinen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-12-ps-130.u13	The debate on the timing of the table is closed. Mats Nylund, supported by Maarit Feldt-Santa, has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the plenary session on 7 February 2017. In support of Ms Sarkomaa, Ms Heikkinen has proposed that the matter be put on the table for the next plenary session.
