ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u2	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u3	Mr President! Yesterday, thousands of students marched against massive government student support cuts on the streets of Helsinki. Students have real concerns about their livelihoods, as the government is cutting the student money by EUR 4 per month, or as much as EUR 86 per month. Minister of Education, you made a promise of education before the elections, after the elections and even after the elections, and now you have failed this promise. Minister, why are you making students pay the highest price for balancing the economy? Do you consider it reasonable that those with the lowest level of social security should be cut the most?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u4	Mr President! We have a great deal of information about the difficult situation of the Finnish economy in this Chamber. And I think that Finns everywhere in Finland understand how difficult Finland is and how serious this situation really is. Due to this difficult situation and the fact that we are constantly getting - in fact, all the time - slightly worse views on where the situation in the Finnish economy is going, it is absolutely necessary for the government to take measures to balance public finances. As part of them, the government parties — the centre, the Finns Party and the Coalition Party — agreed on a fast-acting savings package of EUR 4 billion in government negotiations. One of its components is the reduction in student support by 70 million by 2019 and 150 million in the long term. It's my unthankful duty to take this savings forward, too, knowing,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to press the V button and stand up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u6	Mr President! Minister, we have heard that answer many times. Minister, shouldn't you be on the student side? The government has withdrawn a lot of savings, but for some strange reason you hold onto the cuts in students and education. Minister of Education, are you in the spending limits debate proposing to cancel the student allowance cuts?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u7	Mr President! We also have in mind the previous term of government and the previous periods of government and the experience that every time — the last time I went to Forssa at Jokioisen Leiva’s cafe — people say that we have to save and not cancel the decisions that have already been made. Last season, we have a memory of what that means. This means that the decisions that are necessary for the Finnish economy are first taken and then cancelled. The opposition social democrats have a great deal of experience and evidence in this regard that we know how to cancel savings. But the more difficult task is to make a genuine effort to improve this situation in Finland and to re-emerge Finland's economy. It involves difficult and unpleasant decisions. I can tell you that I would certainly prefer to increase spending, as has been the case in good times when there has been a divisional margin, but at the moment we are in such a sad state of the Finnish economy that we cannot have such a debate, but we must take the decisions to the end and make the savings of EUR 4 billion. And here I can assure you that I will keep the training.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u8	Mr President! The choice of the Board of Directors — that is, the choice — to cut education and student support weakens Finland’s knowledge base and the ability of young people to study. It is grotesque that a quarter of the student's income is cut, as students are already one of the largest groups of low incomes and a large proportion of students live below the poverty line. The cuts will have a significant impact on the income of the students and will make life difficult, especially for students living in growing urban areas, because the cost of living in these areas is very high. So I ask the Minister for Education: do you understand the value you are making by cutting 70 million and 150 million of students' livelihoods in the longer term? Reduction of the student grant, EUR 86, may be a small amount at the level of the minister's income, but for students it means two weeks of food.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u9	Mr President! Then, Mr Marin, where would you operate instead?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u10	Mr President! I can assure Mr Marin that every minister on his way to the spending limits debate has practically put forward additional expenditure and defends his own line of work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u13	Mr President! Minister of Education Grahn-Laasonen, what is the alternative to the SDP? The option of the SDP has been presented in our alternative budget, I would now like to ask the government ministers, especially Minister Grahn-Laasonen, how you think for yourself about how Finland will rise from this with more than a high level of knowledge, education, research and product development. These operations of yours are poison for these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u14	Mr President! Finland will rise by balancing public finances and by building such a credible path that Finland will rise from this difficult situation so that we do not continue along this path of misery. The previous government cut out large sums of education under the leadership of Krista Kiuru and Jukka Gustafsson, then ministers, But on this path of depravity we cannot continue; we must put the country's economy in order. In addition to this, we are currently working with committed officials and education experts at the Ministry of Education and Culture on the whole so that we can reform the Finnish education system in this difficult economic situation. We do it at all levels of education, strengthening the pedagogy of early childhood education, reforming comprehensive school with new pedagogy,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u15	Mr President! The government repeatedly argues that cuts from students and education are justified by the need to stop government debt. My question to this effect is that do we really have a government, Prime Minister and Minister of Education in this country who believe that Finland will rise by cutting education, higher education and student incomes? I have always thought that Finland can cope with the fact that all young people have an equal educational promise and that young people have the opportunity, on the basis of their own skills and enthusiasm, to receive the kind of education they use to create work in Finland, and that we have higher education institutions that develop top-level research, and that is how we get work in Finland. I do not believe that government indebtedness will be reduced by cutting the conditions for higher education institutions to create technological development and innovation in Finland, and it will not rise by the fact that young people in particular who are having difficulties are no longer able to receive student money and reach higher education. Prime Minister, is it your line that cutting education helps the state economy? I disagree.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u16	Mr President! Finland has not reformed for a long time. If we had been able to make major reforms in due course, we would not be in this situation if we now had to balance the economy both by cutting, by seeking growth and by making structural reforms. These three entities consist of the core of the entire Government Programme. Unfortunately, we have to do all these things now, because during this parliamentary term we are going to put Finland in order, that this road to oblivion ends and that these cuts are no longer needed on this scale. This is the core of this entire government programme, and we are going to take it all the way to the finish line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u17	Mr President! Each party said before the last parliamentary elections: "Training has been cut too much, no more cuts." That is what every party elected here said.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u21	Mr President! As has been said here, all parties before the elections, during the elections and after the elections have suggested that education is the choice of values that will not be cut off. Education widely understood, education, knowledge, are key elements in the development of society. In Finland, it has meant significant economic growth over the last decades, developing into a world leader in many areas. Winston Churchill, free of charge, during the war, when training cuts were being performed on him, asked the performer: What are we fighting for then? Now we are in a difficult economic situation in Finland, and we all recognise that. The SDP, with its own alternative budget, offered a real alternative to this policy of cutbacks, cutting from poor people, unemployed, families with children
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u22	And now the finance minister, Stubb, will answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u23	Mr President! As former finance minister Rinne well knows, as we are building a path towards a spending limits argument, there are different views from all ministries. So, according to our rough estimate, we are currently in a situation where there are around 3 to...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u28	Mr President! We are used to the fact that every week there is a cutting topic on the table and the opposition always blames this government's choice of values. Minister Grahn-Laasonen has the merit of defending the decisions of his own administration, which are the decisions of the entire government, of all three government parties, which have been taken before the first minister has been appointed in the Government Programme. Now, with this reform of student aid,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u29	Mr President! The student loan is now taken out a little more than before, so the students have turned to taking out the student loan more positively.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u36	Mr President! After all, the last government facilitated student loans by creating a 40% credit system that Mr Arhinmäki and I were working on. Now you will be in your performance, if Professor Uusitalo's performance goes through, weakening it too. In other words, these presentations, a major cut, a cut of EUR 150 million, long-term student support is across the line of weakening and student money up to a quarter of the weakening. I would now like to make it very clear when I listen to academics and students, that your speech about stopping government debt is the ultimate goal, sounds really invisible to the people who want to be in this country creating new know-how, technology, developing Finland further. Many go abroad because of the wave of redundancies in these universities. Don't you, my dear Minister of Education and Prime Minister, take this distress call from the college people seriously? And at the same time, it is those students who need the most support that, if the conditions are further tightened, can leave their studies. Do you think that's the right thing to do?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u37	Mr President! Maybe two of these clarifications. The first is that, unfortunately, during the previous term of government, we also had to make major cuts in education, roughly around EUR 800 million. The implementation was around EUR 800 million and the target was in fact higher. Now it is always creating the impression that the previous government did not have any cuts in education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u40	Värderade Talman! Jämlikhet och Jämliika förutsättningar att studera har variantt hörnstenar inom finländsk utbildningspolitik.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u41	Mr President! Our education policy is guided by our efforts to strengthen equality in education in Finland. Education is free of charge in Finland until higher education, and it is one of the most important elements that ensures equality of opportunity in Finland. In addition, we need to work hard to ensure that our education system is as high as possible throughout Finland. This is where Finland has been strong in international comparisons. For example, we have small differences between schools and regionally from the point of view of this equality. Strengthening the quality of this education is something we can do at all levels of education. As far as this study aid is concerned, I asked specifically and specifically for views on the rapporteur, Professor Roope. From the perspective of equality of opportunity. He produced excellent material based on scientific research. I urge and encourage all of you to get to know it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u42	Let's try to stay around the time limits.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u43	Mr President! However, I am somewhat confused about this whole debate. First of all, when, Minister, you started with it — as Minister of Education, you started to justify these cuts in education on the property of the Minister of Finance — you have to save money not to owe. But now that I see this investigative journalism as a productive product of who has owed this country debt, it is in fact a coalition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u44	Mr President! I say this in all seriousness: I think that we should all be concerned about this state of the Finnish economy, everyone in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u45	I would say that, for a reason that has occurred in this theme, we will be returning many times over the next few days.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u46	Mr President! This week, students demonstrated against student support cuts, and the concerns of students need to be understood, as many students already have very little income. Various models have been presented to improve the economic status of students, including the transfer of students to general housing allowance. Another good solution would be to increase the current student income limits. It would also encourage work and increase students' work experience. Many are happy to work, and many are forced to do so in order to gain additional earnings. At present, however, work will be punished by recovering student grants at the end of the year. Now I would like to ask the government: has the government assessed the possibilities for raising the annual income limit for students?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u47	Mr President! This was Mrs Elomaa's good comments on the student support system, which means that the model currently has numerous challenges and numerous shortcomings, of which these income limits are one, and then there is also the fact that the system is very fragmented and complex, so difficult to understand. It has even been said that even those who work on Kela’s student support do not know the system that has been so much stretched out over the years from small pieces. There were many good ideas for development, which, of course, also have a price tag, and in this difficult situation all these expectations may not be met. But the government has not yet dealt with the final model that we are going to bring in as a government proposal, so it is possible to return to this matter. But we do have the groundwork that Professor Uusitalo has provided us with, and we will return to it. I would like to make such an observation — which has been overlooked in the debate — that it was already decided in the negotiations on the Government Programme that the total amount should be:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u48	I will now give two more speeches to Mrs Rinte and then to Mrs Zyskowicz. After that, this theme in this session is...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u49	Mr President! Now I ask you clearly, Mr Grahn-Laasonen, and I ask you to answer as clearly. My question is: did you bring a proposal to the Minister of Finance to cancel student aid cuts? I ask this question now and I ask you to answer it directly. Then I ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb: when you often talk here about debt being bad and we must be able to stop debt, you often refer to household indebtedness, and the public debate also refers to this whole — you talk about the state, about its indebtedness, and at the same time you are suggesting here that students should be in debt, that households should be in debt in the future — so how do you justify this, Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u50	Who's answering? — Minister Grahn-Laasonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u51	Mr President! I feel that perhaps I have already answered these questions today,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u54	Mr President! Every day the opposition here opposes some kind of savings. Today it's the students, tomorrow it's the farmers. I believe that the people of Finland will see through this bluff. While each group of the population will certainly experience these savings badly for themselves, I actually believe that the Finnish people understand that these are necessary, these savings must be made in order to balance the Finnish economy and to make our country's economy better. But when we talk about value choices here, during the last parliamentary term, when Minister Niinistö – then Minister Niinistö – was in the government and Krista Kiuru was in the government, the demos were in the government, savings were made, child benefit was cut, projects to establish basic education, upper secondary school education and art were cut off from the upper secondary school network, cut from vocational education, further training, apprenticeship training, vocational school network, university index, Aalto University supplement money, Academy of Finland. Minister Stubb, when you were in the same government, these were such value choices from Minister Niinistö and Kiuru,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u55	The time has been spent, and now I'll see who answers. — Minister Stubb.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u56	Mr President! I would never blame former government partners, present opposition parties for responsible financial management.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u59	I will give one last speech to the representative of the Christian Democratic Group, Mrs Essayah, and then this matter will be closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u60	Mr President! The Christian Democratic Group of the European Parliament today decided that we should also agree with the intermediate issue of study aid and education. We criticise these excessively drastic cuts, but we are not only criticising them, but in this situation, just as we have heard in the debate, it is also very important to put forward those solutions, and the KD is presenting its own model that would also ensure faster graduation for students. We would also be interested to hear whether we can consider giving up these income limits on student support, because, for example, family students in particular today are very hard on their livelihoods and this recovery of student support is extremely bureaucratic and it would then also be important for many students to be able to obtain money, especially if they have dependants. Would it be possible to do this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u61	Mr President! Yes, the answer is yes, one can consider, and I am grateful for all the constructive ideas of development that we could do so that the situation of students and the situation in our education system could be better in the years to come, despite this difficult economic situation. I thank you for this constructive approach, and I also hope that, when we have an interim debate here in a moment, we will be able to continue above all with these content issues, because they are essential, that is, in what way we reform Finnish education so that it is stronger in our system, secures equality of opportunity also in the future, and that we will be able to manage in a world of internationalisation and tightening up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u62	We shall now move on to the next question. Congressman Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u63	Mr President! At the same time as the government is pushing drastic cuts in the income of students and employees, we have heard again how the owners of the most wealthy non-listed companies pay little or no tax on their income. Taxes are legally circumvented by holding companies as well as insurance portfolios. Even those who receive high capital income who pay their taxes fairly will be taxed less than employees who receive similar income. Mr Sipilä, how do you intend to involve high-income dividends in austerity policy, and would this not be a fairer option than cutting off low-income students?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u64	Mr President! It is true that when an unlisted company pays a dividend to another unlisted company, there is no tax on it. At least this government's programme does not yet have this path to be dismantled. This is made for the purpose that such corporate structures are able to account for each other and then the Group is taxed. That is the starting point for this. This has by no means been done for tax evasion purposes. But as we go through this expansion of the tax base, this issue will also be considered.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u65	I would ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u66	Mr President! I'm glad to hear this. But, Prime Minister Sipilä, you yourself have arranged your property through so-called insurance envelopes. After all, the popularity of these insurance portfolios has increased considerably over the last few years, precisely because they enable both the concealment of holdings and the collection of dividends free of tax. In practice, it is a question of tax planning by high income Finns. I think it would be very positive if the government were now to consider including high incomes in this austerity policy, but Prime Minister, do you intend to take steps to open up these insurance envelopes, in which case you yourself would also contribute to the financing of the welfare state?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u67	Mr President! Insinuating here that I am somehow circumventing taxes is offensive. Of course, it would have been possible to do so in many circumstances: once I have done business, I have received proposals to do so through Luxembourg. But I have always responded to those proposals in such a way that I want to pay my taxes in Finland because I have been allowed to study and grow here and this is a safe country and I also want to set an example by my own tax-paying behaviour. We have a variety of products where, for example, forest growth is taxed when it is realised; there are insurance savings where profits are realised when they are raised; there is, for example, corporate property that is only being taxed when sold. The fact that we have such products does not make anyone a tax evader.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u68	Mr President! I think the question was about dividend taxes. It goes without saying that each company's objective is to sell products or services and generate profits for its owners. Of course, we on the Ministry of Finance are always grateful when we are able to generate taxes. It means that, whether high-income or low-income, we will be able to use every tax revenue we can get into the Ministry of Finance to create well-being. That is why I would like us not to go out and sort these taxes in such a way that in some way one tax is blacked out against another tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u69	I will give the floor to Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u70	Mr President! In my own speech, I referred not to tax evasion but to tax planning, i.e. that there are both companies and individuals in Finland who consciously seek to minimise their own tax burden, not to break the law. In my opinion, this is now a question of whether the government intends, in its own tax policy, to ensure that the principle that every Finn pays tax according to its ability to pay is fulfilled. Is the government going to take measures, for example, to reform dividend taxation so that taxation in Finland also works according to this important principle for Finns?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u71	Mr President! We are currently in the midst of a number of different tax reports, and we are also working on this chain taxation package to which you have just referred. There are also certain EU restrictions, but we look at this whole as we draw up the tax plan as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u72	Mr President! It is clear that Finland will not succeed unless companies and individuals succeed — including the Prime Minister. Finns and financial institutions operating in Finland make record profits, distribute dividends for billions of dollars. The business of banks is not subject to value added tax, which is why in Britain some EUR 10 billion is taxed on their income. In Sweden, a bank tax is being prepared to achieve a return of at least EUR 400 million. Would it not now be a place for Nordic cooperation, as we propose in the Socialist alternative budget? Instead of cutting off students and other underprivileged people, why not raise a bank tax of around EUR 200 million a year. Don't you think it's a good idea to take those who have, not just those who don't?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u73	Mr President! Of course, banks pay tax on their results just like other companies and companies. When we look at the tax package, of course we look at different solutions, but the bank tax is not on our agency right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u74	Mr President! I find Mr Andersson's question offensive, but I will ask you more broadly. The government is making the current tax policy in a tight space. There are good elements that promote employment and entrepreneurship. On the other hand, there are major challenges in taxation in terms of international tax cooperation, we are coming up with a regional reform, we are going to have a basic income reform and we are going to have incentives traps. I ask Mr Stubb: has it been thought that we would set up a large group of experts to consider a broader tax reform? I am thinking mainly of the next parliamentary term, which would enable us to respond to these many challenges in such a way that it would be a good basis for discussion then for our politicians to align themselves on the basis of a working group of experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u75	Mr President! It is clear that, for example, when we have looked at social funding, we have wondered whether it would be worthwhile to carry out a more extensive tax reform here. At this stage, however, we have come to the conclusion that, from a tax policy point of view, continuity and credibility and avoidance are of the utmost importance. That is why, to a large extent, we have defined in both the Government Programme and the annexes to the Government Programme what our basic tax policy is and where we are still doing our studies. The basic objective is that the overall tax rate should not be tightened, because it is one of the highest in Europe and the West, more than 44% roughly, while the OECD average is 34%. And another basic objective is that the taxation of anyone's work should not be tightened. They're holding on to these two. We are not doing a new, comprehensive tax reform during this term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u76	We shall now move on to the next question. Representative Karimäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u77	Mr President! I would like to ask about the EU-Turkey agreement. The UN refugee organisation and Amnesty have criticised the agreement: if the borders are closed and mass returns are made, it violates the right of people to seek asylum. Turkey's ability to process asylum applications is under test. Furthermore, the human rights situation in the country is worrying. There's a lot of questions. In order for one Syrian to enter Europe, does someone else have to risk their lives at sea? And can such a one-to-one transfer even take place when voluntary relocations of refugees within the EU have not taken place as expected? What happens to children, women and the elderly in tents on the Macedonian-Greek border? Would it not be better to help by taking refugees directly from the camp, especially women and children, and raising the refugee quota? The statement by the EU Heads of State and Government affirms that human rights and international law are respected. How does Finland intend to ensure that people in need get to safety?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u78	Mr President! A very good and important question. This is precisely the purpose of this agreement, i.e. to put an end to this questionable business model for smugglers, which is to drive people along a dangerous route, along the sea, to Greece. Now is the intention that this kind of disorderly business model will end and precisely from the camps then organizedly will be taken under the leadership of the UN Refugee Agency to invest women, children and families in Europe. And this money, which has been on the table here, is being used to improve the conditions in these refugee camps.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u79	Mr President! This is an extremely important issue and, if we are to be able to resolve this whole issue, we must address these root causes, or wars, that are going on there. In an unforgivable way, the international community, up to the UN, has failed to do this work, up to the great powers. And this is what needs to be put in order to plug this human tragedy. But in the same way as the Prime Minister, we must take the business away from human smugglers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u80	Minister Soini, time is up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u81	Mr. Speaker! I think it is a very good thing that the EU has reached agreement with Turkey as long as it has been waiting. Of course, the human rights situation and politics in Turkey cause many concerns, but we also have to deal with such countries and engage in discussions, as with Russia. But there are many such big questions in this agreement, as far as it can also be implemented, and one of them is that, while the aim is to put an end to the smuggling of human beings and dangerous transports, this mechanism, which is to restore one for every Syrian refugee to Greece, so that one refugee from the camps can then be admitted into the EU, can in a way create such a little strange insensitivity, a ‘institution’, to allow these people to come so that the same number can then be removed from Turkey.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u82	Mr President! The purpose of this whole arrangement is to put an end to such a road based on human smuggling, and I do not believe that this can possibly become an inspiration through this, that someone else will then be taken from that camp. This will bring order to the border and then, under the leadership of the UN refugee organisation, these camps will be controlled by people. I recognise that there are many issues that have been addressed at the European Council. They have been asked by the Commission to find out now in the week, and next Thursday we will hear the answers. Of course, we assume that international agreements and human rights agreements will be respected, of course, and that we, as a European community of values, cannot go against them. But here we have to take hard action now to bring order to the border and to these people who are fleeing the war, the human conditions from which they can be
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u83	Mr. Speaker! In this Turkey project, it is important now to emphasise that this EU money must go directly to these refugees who are to be placed there in camps, and this has been agreed upon. But there is a great fear that there may be yobarians in the background who will then raise this money. This monitoring must be very precise in such a way that the money will actually remain there for refugees. If the Prime Minister could give us a little more description of the situation in North Africa that you also discussed. There are hundreds of thousands of potential refugees who will cross as soon as the waters warm up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u84	Mr President! The fact that it goes directly to the refugees has been discussed with Turkey many times. This is a common mechanism for monitoring every single project and project together. That money is not going to Turkey, it is going to the Syrian refugees in Turkey and to improve the conditions in these camps. Well, then, as for the fact that when a border is closed, the root causes do not go away — as the Foreign Minister said — then, of course, the pressure goes somewhere else. It may be that an even more dangerous route, from Libya to Italy, for example, opens up, so the key to all this is, of course, that these root causes can be removed, that a ceasefire can be held, that humanitarian aid can be delivered. In the context of Syria, it was also discussed,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u85	Mr President! All international organisations, expert organisations that have worked with migrants, refugees and trafficking in human beings for years — 86% of the world's refugees are not here in Europe — say that this is not a successful means of limiting human trafficking or trafficking. Trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings are currently very closely tied together, and it seems that for the first time more than half of those who come are women and children. The safety of women and children in relation to gender-related violence has been very poor. Why the EU decided not to listen to these organisations that have worked, to learn lessons and to work together on ways to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u86	Mr President! These concerns have been raised at the European Council and I am sure they will also be at next week's meeting. Indeed, the starting point for everything is to have some order in this matter. The human rights situation and the humanitarian situation in those Greek fields are not so great at the moment, even where people are in plastic lumps and accommodated there, but we need to get things in order closer to crisis areas and then with the help of experts, with the help of the UN refugee organisation, to get these camps up and running. This whole also requires more funds to be made available. These additional funds have now been received from the EU's own budget, from the Member States — Finland has also participated — and then at the Syrian aid conference in London, almost 11 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u87	Mr. Speaker! The objectives outlined by the Prime Minister to try to stop this behaviour of human smugglers and traffickers are right and desirable and, of course, they are all in favour. However, even in these speeches there are concerns that the situation is now no longer that the majority of refugees are young men, but that there are now the majority of refugees, women and children, so it seems somewhat unreasonable that they should leave Greece to transport these women and children back to Turkey. So how has such a problem been dealt with? Would it not be much better now to take these refugees from Greece to the various EU countries who are already there? Will Finland increase the refugee quota, and how will these other European countries be forced to increase their own refugee quotas?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u88	Mr President! By no means are refugees in Greece going to Turkey. This is not a part of this solution, but to bring order to the borders and to these refugee camps now under proper conditions for these new arrivals. After that, we need to solve what we do for about 100,000. For a refugee in Greece, and here we have this voluntary mechanism which can now be put in place when we get order on the borders. The EU countries have committed themselves to this, some 160,000 in all are covered by this arrangement, and some of this voluntary mechanism can then be used to take Syrians from Turkey from these camps. In addition, we still have this quota refugee system, and Finland has set the example by promising to take 600 Syrians from Turkish camps.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u89	Mr President! This refugee crisis is a great tragedy for these people themselves, but at the same time it is of course a major challenge for the EU countries. There is a great deal of thought here, as it should be, about what to do with these consequences, but at least as much should be given to how these causes can be affected. This influx of refugees is mainly directed at Europe, the EU countries, but it seems a little bit that the solution to this crisis, when we talk about the Syrian crisis, is primarily being discussed by Russia and the United States, to some extent even across the EU. That's what it looks like. However, the only lasting solution for the long run is to solve the crisis in Syria, to have a ceasefire, to have some beautiful day of peace there. What is the EU going to do, Mr President, to get a ceasefire? How can the EU contribute more to achieving peace?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u90	Mr President! This question by the chairman of the committee, Mr Kaikkonen, is correct. If we cannot bring peace to Syria and the Iraqi region and the destruction of the ISIS, then this situation will continue. That is why there is a need for cooperation between all the international communities, both the UN, the EU and others, and it is very important that the United States and Russia are once again talking and hopefully working together on this, because, unfortunately, in a cold and bad world, there is a need for cooperation between the major powers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u95	I will give the last speech to this debate to Mr Karimäki, the author of this theme.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u96	Mr President! It is very important to eradicate this criminal smuggling of human beings, and it is important that we help Turkey because there are now so many Syrian refugee children who need training in camps. Addressing root causes is also central to ensuring that development funds are taken care of, so it is unfortunate that the government has cut so much of them. Combining the family would also be one way of creating safe routes, and I therefore regret the fact that the government is planning to weaken this too. I would also like to have a debate on the issue of humanitarian visas. It would be a safe way for people to get from refugee camps to safety in Europe. I ask the government: will Finland play a fair role in solving this refugee crisis?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u97	Mr President! Finland is now mainly involved in this matter through the European Union. We have always dug up our share in this common pot, for example this Turkish fund. We've dug it up somewhere. Here, too, at the Syria Conference in London, we have promised our contribution. We are involved in these efforts, and it is clear that with development aid and aid to these refugee camps and closer to the crisis areas, we can do a lot. The abolition of trafficking in human beings is one of the most important aspects of this decision. Finland’s refugee quota has been one of the largest in Europe. In that way, Finland has set an example here. Last December we decided in advance that most of this year's quotas will be used specifically to take Syrians.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u98	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 4/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u99	Mr President! The Government’s proposal to correct Article 3 of the Energy Certificates Act is not justified. The proposal is not a very good European policy either, and it is not good for democracy. On the basis of EU membership over 20 years, we should have the right grip on and on the transposition of directives adopted in the EU. That right grip means careful evaluation of matters and making legislative proposals in the right order and in a timely manner. It is not very strange if some directives give citizens an idea of the confusion of the EU. If we make decisions rashly and later have to correct decisions that have already been patched up, we will see an increase in anti-Europeanism. However, the correct address for criticism is at home, not in Brussels or in Strasbourg. The proposal has also been poorly considered in the light of the system of citizens' initiatives taken into the Finnish Constitution. After all, Parliament has received and dealt with a citizens' initiative that proposed correcting the excesses of the Energy Certificate Act. That initiative has produced the second result. The initiative was not adopted as such, but it was decided that it would be necessary to correct the law. However, with regard to the proposed amendment to the law, it must be said: incorrectly corrected. Mr President! We have considerable potential in Finland to increase the energy efficiency of buildings. However, energy labelling legislation has clearly proved to be difficult to understand and, in particular, to confuse ordinary citizens. Time-out and impact on the ongoing preparation of energy efficiency regulations in the EU and, at the same time, the adoption of a law based on the citizens' initiative on energy certification.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u100	Mr President! We live in times where the goal here in Finland is to dismantle unnecessary regulation, to avoid bureaucracy and to reduce costs. This is something that has been discussed and demanded so many times in this Chamber, and the government has also announced that it will take these measures quickly. The same objectives have been highlighted in the European Union, including in this REFIT project. So, President, it was a great surprise when a government proposal appeared to announce that the energy certification legislation would be amended. To my amazement, I noticed that it is not about deregulation or red tape or reducing costs, but quite the opposite, which is why it is now being proposed that new targets should be included in the energy certification procedure, crystallised: garages and warehouses, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u105	There have been at least two replies to Mr Viitanen's speech, including three.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u106	Mr President! Indeed, there was a need to have a reply now, because I wondered whether I heard it right. Is it really the case that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u115	Mr President! I was there last season in President Pekkarinen's chair when the debate on this subject was held on the citizens' initiative. I was delighted to hear the debate in which Minister Viitanen made a very clear statement that Finland is taking the line that we are trying to get rid of these certificates from the old detached houses, because they have no real meaning in terms of energy savings. They are still theoretical calculations that do not even describe actual consumption. But as delighted as I was then, so confused as I am now. When the government changes, the Finnish line also seems to change. It is no longer referred to as the end of this unnecessary testimonial, which has been felt to be a great embarrassment by singles, but, on the contrary, it is being extended. I have not heard any sound arguments as to why this is being done. What is this reason that this pain is only added when it does not really affect energy saving?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u116	Mr President! Of course, the government's explanatory statement justifies the bill. Now we are talking a little bit about two different things. What has been referred to here earlier relates to these energy certificates that have been discussed during the last parliamentary term. Now here is the European Commission's request for information, which refers to the fact that large buildings — swimming pools, ice halls, warehouses — are not included in the law of the last parliamentary term and must now be brought to bear. If I understand correctly, the failure to comply with the directives will lead to sanctions, and I am sure that none of us will want that. Reference was made here to this citizens' initiative and its handling. It's in the process. It is quite true that the energy certificate is difficult to understand, and the statement is a step in the direction that needs to be simplified and readable. I'm sure we'll agree on that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u117	Mr President! From our work, from our legislative work, citizens can rightly expect that they can respect and comply with the laws. Another aspect is that it can also be thought that they reasonably correspond to the public’s sense of justice. Well, now that we're talking and hearing that we're bringing garages into the energy certificates...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u122	I will give the floor to the representatives of Myllykoski, Hassi and then of Viitanen and Torniainen. That's what we're gonna break up with, and then we're gonna go on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u123	Mr President! For its part, we must be surprised at how the debate that took place last season is now in a very different state of affairs. Of course, it can be said that there must be a house, that there is a garage of 50 square meters, but I must say, when I have farm buildings in the countryside, that I do have a garage the size of which is classified as a warehouse.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u126	Mr President! In this debate, two things have been pleasantly confused: The discontent with the energy certificates that have existed among people has primarily affected the energy certificates of residential buildings. In practice, this proposal does not cover many residential buildings. Instead, the municipalities are affected, for example through swimming pools. Congressman Viitanen here raised the garages. In the case of garages, this change applies only to garages of more than 50 square metres, which, for example, are hardly common in old detached houses. I would also stress that energy certificates are only required if the building is sold or rented. In the case of municipalities, the situation is different in that the municipalities are obliged to keep in public buildings:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u127	Mr President! In particular, I would have liked the government parties to justify why, at this very point in time, we should go if we could use such a language in the face of the EU, because this directive is, in any case, being renewed there. In the autumn is becoming this kind of presentation, from which then leaves the working group work, and the evaluation will be ready by the beginning of next year. This would come into effect in the middle of this year, so in six months' time, people will have to get it here right now. I don't understand this. President! What would of course be missing here when we talk about the size of garages is that the next step, even if the eight-square-square cold stables are placed within the scope of the energy certificate, is not that we are going to leave it. Well, that's probably the next step. In other words, you must now also admit that this will increase costs for municipalities, operators and households. People's confusion this will increase, bureaucracy and unnecessary regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u128	Mr President! I understand very well that the word "energy certificate" is a source of emotion and debate. This has already been very clear during the last parliamentary term. This government proposal is based on the European Commission's decision that the Finnish legislation that was adopted during the last period does not correspond to the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Directive in so far as the types of buildings have been excluded from the procedure, i.e. it was excluded from the procedure by the Parliament at the time. Under no circumstances do we want to be paid here, and this government proposal is precisely an improvement on that point. The fact that this government proposal will cover, for example, swimming pools, ice pools and warm warehouses, over 50 square feet of them, is precisely a correction to this point. As far as the energy certificate itself is concerned, we all agree — the citizens' initiative that was — that it should be addressed and improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u129	There were two further contributions to this debate, Mr Mäkelä and Mr Heinäluoma, and then we will move on to Mr Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u130	Mr President! I appreciate the fact that Mr Hassi and Mrs Torniainen brought some facts and realities into this debate, how this has gone. The Social Democrats have at least tried to find out in the opposition their own little criticism of the EU, but they bring up issues in a very coloured tone, i.e. deliberately forgetting what these Commission's remarks are and how these things are going in the EU and how Finland deals with these issues. In the previous period, if something has been blocked because of the fact that the EU Commission is at some point in the process, and this period is being criticised for the fact that things are progressing as they did in the case of cabotage, for example, it only shows that we are trying to trick and trick the people and act intellectually dishonestly in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u131	Mr President! The key question here is whether it is not to deceive the people, but to act as the previous Parliament decided, which all parties pretended to agree before the elections, namely that this requirement of proof for old self-styled houses does not make sense, it is not a policy of soundness. There was a consensus then. But now the government is going in the wrong direction in this proposal by making more of these burden of proof. This is not what was discussed here last time. These are of no real significance in terms of energy savings. We would now have the opportunity to say to the Commission that there is this big project to eliminate unnecessary regulation and, furthermore, a new review of this directive, that Finland wants corrections to be made here. But I am glad that one thing has been found in this Chamber, on which the Greens and the Finns of Peru agree, and that is this increase in evidence regulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u132	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u133	Mr President! I see that this is a matter of surprising interest, and it is a good thing because energy, energy consumption, energy saving and things like this, climate policy, are important and this is linked to the big picture. First of all, I am somewhat surprised that if we receive a request from the Commission for information, which states that Finnish legislation does not fully correspond to what it should answer, then is Finland's answer that we do not answer at all or that we do not make the necessary changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u140	Mr President! This government proposal is therefore based on the European Commission's decision that Finnish legislation does not currently correspond to the Energy Efficiency Directive for Buildings in respect of which types of buildings have been excluded from the procedure in Finland. The energy certification procedure now covers, for example, ice caps, swimming pools and warm storage facilities. This applies in particular to municipalities and municipalities. Overall, there is certainly a great deal of room for improvement in the energy efficiency of buildings. In the future, therefore, energy certification should also be more guiding and encouraging in the implementation of energy saving measures. That is why energy certificates must also be developed, and that is what we all agree on. For example, the content and structure of the energy certificate for small houses should be changed more easily to be understood, e.g. by eliminating problems of comparability due to the multiplication of different forms of energy. I would have liked more attention to have been paid to this in the last parliamentary term. Similarly, the energy certificate must also take into account actual use-based costs, not just those calculated, theoretical values. Mr President! Just as Mr Kiuru already said in his speech, as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection drew up a report on this matter, the Committee stated that it is also pressing for the preparation of legislation in this context, which has been launched in connection with the citizens' initiative to amend the Energy Certificate Act, following a statement adopted by Parliament. But it is from there that this government proposal itself is based.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u141	Mr President! I'm not sure if I can squeeze for two minutes, that's why I came to this toilet. As has already been demonstrated in this debate, the reform of the energy certificate for residential houses is being prepared, and this is a much smaller reform, which concerns, among other things, swimming pools and ice pools. Personally, I see nothing wrong with the fact that, as a matter of energy certificates for residential houses is still being prepared for a bigger reform, which concerns the issue of energy certificates for residential buildings, which has raised much of the public debate, such a smaller reform is being brought before the Houses, which is due to the fact that the EU Commission has declared Finnish legislation in these matters to be incompatible with EU law. Mr Viitanen and Mr Heinäluoma, as former ministers, know very well that when an EU Commission finds a matter in national law so that it does not comply with EU law, and this is not rectified, it will most likely lead to a process before the European Court of Justice, and in such a small case it would seem to me unnecessary. It is very good that the energy certification of residential buildings should be prepared in such a way as to make the actual energy consumption of the dwelling more clearly visible than in the current model of proof. However, I would also like to highlight the wider link to which this relates, inter alia because I myself have been involved in the debate in the European Parliament on these issues. All the serious studies I have seen — whether they concern Europe or the whole world — on how humanity and Europe can reduce climate change emissions quickly and economically in the smartest way possible, all agree that item number one is about improving energy efficiency. Overall, these investments can be made most quickly and are also the most profitable. Representative Mr Kiuru pointed out what Professor Lund has said in committee, for example in relation to swimming pools. From an EU-wide point of view, I recall that one of the points raised was that if the potential of energy efficiency in buildings in the EU were to be exploited, Europe as a whole would be able to reduce the consumption of natural gas for heating to such an extent that gas from Russia would no longer have to be imported into the EU. From the perspective of the Finns, this is of course not as relevant, because in Finland natural gas is much less used for heating than in Central Europe. But against this larger background, I find it wonderful what kind of troll has been made about this energy certificate issue in Finland. An energy certificate is only needed when the building is sold or rented, so it is a matter of legal protection for the buyer and the lessee. After all, for most ordinary people, buying a dwelling is by far the largest financial investment they make in their lives, and the heating costs are certainly the biggest part of the operating costs in most houses, and I do not think that it is in any way unreasonable that, in such a situation, the energy consumption of a building should also be accounted for. Whether it is the model that is being used now, good or bad is a different thing, and certainly it can be improved, but the fundamental thing is that we are now bringing such a smaller reform to Parliament, as the bigger one is being prepared, I think it is justifiable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u142	Mr President! I think it would be very important now for the government to be informed of what it intends to do in this procedure when this directive is being reformed. It is certainly clear that the government will hopefully continue to act in accordance with Finland's position to exempt old small houses from the mandatory energy certificate. But is the government now going to reverse the line in this regard and accept that nothing is going to happen, and that the public's garages are now being placed under the energy certificate? So why cannot this same process, which is now under way, simply be linked to this claim right now? I can't understand that. President! Surely the objective of being energy-efficient and everything else is the same, that we share, and there are many ways to achieve this, it is a competitive asset. But when these energy certificates do not in themselves lead to that result, it is therefore very important that, in these times, when we want to dismantle this bureaucracy, reduce costs, dismantle standards, we do not do so, and, on the contrary, we increase this regulation with everything. There are many good things in the European Union. For example, I welcome the fact that Mr Soini made a very positive speech here yesterday. We really appreciated it even from the opposition, but it should not have meant, in my opinion, that this new basic Finnish is going to go to this extreme point, that now the representative of the Finns Party is very much defending the fact that the European Union is going to be regulated, forced to tax garages and so on. This makes me now, President-in-Office, afraid and wonder that this government has not completely changed the direction of the last period of Parliament's common opinion on these energy certificates. That is why I think it is very important, Mr President, that the government should adopt a policy and explain why this is being brought to this very moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u143	There were a few replies to this request. Let us take Mr Hassi and then the other two and then back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u144	Mr President! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has been briefed by the Ministry of the Environment on this broader reform, its preparation. When, according to parliamentary rules, the documents of the case which has been closed in committee — as is the case here — are public, these reports and material of the Ministry of the Environment are available to other Members of Parliament as well as to members of the Committee on the Environment. I am sure that we in the committee will also be happy to add what we remember from these reports from memory to these written material.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u145	Madam President! In fact, Mr Hassi already told us what the Finnish line is at the moment. So the Finnish line has not changed during this parliamentary term from what we said together during the last parliamentary term, Mr Viitanen. Finland is not doing this government proposal on its own, but, as I have already said, this is based on the decision of the European Commission and we do not want to be paid in vain. In fact, I would like to ask Mr Viitanen: last season you were responsible for this matter, for these energy certificates. Why were not swimming pools, ice halls, already included in the Energy Certificate Act? Then we would not be in this situation, where we are now, that we can be paid if we do not implement this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u146	Mr Kiuru, Mr Pauli and Mr Viitanen have the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u147	Madam President! Mr Torniainen asked good questions, and I would be happy to hear the answer if anyone could tell me what a risk Finland is really taking if we do not do what we are required to do. This has not increased the load that is required of us, by adding something on top of the directive that does not belong there, but we are simply doing what is necessary. As can be seen from many of the opinions heard by the committee, there are quite clear and large savings potential here. I was just talking about swimming pools, there are 218 of them, with a savings potential of between EUR 1.5 and EUR 3 million. There are 220 ice halls, probably in the same class. With regard to the garages: I think it is a completely irresponsible intimidation of the citizens.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u148	Mr President! For example, I have been familiar with all these expert opinions, which have already been presented in the round when this government proposal has been prepared — they can be found at the Ministry of the Environment. There is a great deal of criticism there that this will increase costs, red tape and regulation, and that is why the statements I have gone through have not been taken with joy. President! I really can't calm you down. If I had come across this situation as a minister, I would not have gladly brought these garages, but I would have gone out to fight in the same way as I would have hoped that the government would now go there in the direction of the European Union to say hello to Finland and tell them that we want the energy certificates for detached houses to be voluntary, and we want to continue to avoid unnecessary bureaucracy by not putting garages under the scope of the energy certificate. On the contrary, as a minister, I wanted to act in this direction and I was glad that the whole of Parliament thought so. And now, President, I am confused that the government is giving up on this issue, especially since your timetable is that this directive may well be amended.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u149	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u150	Mr President! Now that Mr Viitanen is hard to put words in the mouth and say what others think, let us stress at this point that I personally do not see this proposed legislation as sensible, necessary or meaningful, as I do not see many other things that the EU is proposing and demanding of us. On the other hand, however, I have not seen the Social Democrats present a distinction from the EU, so I am sure that we will still have to go in line with the EU's decision-making process.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u151	Madam President! I would also like to ask Mr Viitanen what is the way in which you would have dealt with this matter now. In other words, if Finland received a request for information from the Commission, what would have been a better way to react than this government proposal. It is not perfect, but it is the answer to the request for information that has been made to Finland, and this government proposal will enable us to be sure that we will not receive any penalty payments on this matter. And then the second question: during the last parliamentary term, as a minister, you were active in this matter and we sought, in good agreement, to get things right and, as you yourself mentioned, to make statements towards Europe. Did you get an answer to that letter? How long will it take to get an answer? How long would it have taken to obtain an answer to this request for information?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u152	Mr President! It is good that this EU dimension has finally emerged. It is not for that reason that we should now resign from the EU that these energy certification claims are coming from there, but that these crazy claims are being changed there. There must be some criticism in the European Union and, for example, I do not think that it should impose every single nail. In my opinion, Finland could well continue its policy of moving in the direction of amending the directive. We have a good chance of doing so, and this is entirely possible. The answer came from the Commission, and there came the answer that clear, Finland's concerns have been quoted and that this will be noted in the next REFIT round. So this is where the process was started, and precisely because we could not be sure where it would end up, at the same time we also started to improve national legislation, just as Parliament required. So, in conclusion, Mr President, at this point in time, this law is useless and at this stage we must make a serious contribution to the evaluation of the European Union directive. I followed this very closely: since 2002
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u153	And then let's go back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u154	Mr President! I would like to point out here that I personally do not wish to see the energy certificate become optional, even in the case of old detached houses, which I myself live in. This is precisely because, first of all, information about energy consumption is important to the consumer. These certificates are only needed in sales and rental situations — and secondly because, according to countless studies on Europe and the world, improving energy efficiency is one thing if we want to control climate change. Climate change, however, is the greatest possible cost we can imagine for societies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u155	Madam President! Today we have been talking about knowledge and knowledge in Question Time and how we should trust researchers, universities. Well, we do. Professor Peter Lund of Aalto University says in his statement: "The cost of an energy certificate in relation to financial savings in energy efficiency is low. Annual savings can be significant, tens of percent." And, as I mentioned earlier with regard to this same opinion, the impact on swimming pools and ice halls is millions. It is important to influence the EU. But I guess we can do things like what Professor Peter Lund of Aalto University says. Why not save millions of euros ourselves on the costs of municipalities that go to the electricity and heat bills of the ice halls and swimming pools?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u156	Mr President! It was now somewhat unclear what Mr Viitanen would have done in this situation if the EU Commission were to do so. And does Mrs Viitanen have any information that the directive is being revised to include, for example:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u157	Mr President! This speech made me even more concerned than I have been. This has now proved that the representative has no idea whether the Finnish Government is now going to bring this matter specifically to the evaluation and revision of the directive, because it is now open and now Finland can bring its own greetings. If this government does not want to give its regards to the garages, then they will not be open there unless another country takes them. But if the Finnish Government opens up detached houses and these, then they will be examined there. That's why I've been asking you where that activity is now. President! If the Finns of Peru are no longer afraid to say anything critical about the European Union, the Social Democrats will dare. In other words, there has been unnecessary regulation, which has lived for itself, that has created red tape over the years, and we must dare to intervene in it and to call for changes at national level, especially in a situation where, in any event, the evaluation of this directive is under way. And that is what I say to the assembly, Mr President, that I am a little surprised that Mr Kiuru is here to defend this so much. In the referral debate, the representative of the Assembly was very, very critical and hoped that Parliament would be able to postpone this law further.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u158	Mr President! In practice, it will take years to reform the directives. Now that the Commission has pointed out that Finnish legislation in this respect — parts which do not concern the ordinary person and the population much — does not meet the requirements of EU law, I do not believe that the fact that the directive is being reformed is in any way a valid argument for not correcting these matters in national law, because it is not a rapid reform. In fact, I do not see it as a dramatic thing that heated garages of more than 50 square meters should have an energy certificate at the time that the garage is bought or rented. I would also like to add that the energy certificate contains information on how the energy consumption of the building can be reduced. Above all, I am surprised at the tone of the debate in which energy savings are expressed as such a matter of cost, because it can lead to enormous savings. For example, in connection with Parliament's renovation, when I asked the Environment Committee about the energy savings of Parliament's renovation for the trip to Brazil, I received the answer that Parliament's energy consumption will fall by several tens of per cent in connection with the renovation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u162	Madam President! To Mr Viitanen, I am certainly not defending bureaucracy, I am not defending unnecessary standards. Then I will defend them when they have a value base behind them and they will improve people's well-being, business, business conditions. But on this point: Energy efficiency should be improved, energy savings should be sought. And why is it worth applying for them in municipalities, for example, in ice halls and swimming pools? In order to save the tax euro of residents for projects where the euro is used to provide local residents with the services they need. It is not worth wasting them as consumption of electricity and heat on poorly insulated, poorly ventilated ice halls and swimming pools. You might want to read that statement by Peter Lund on the Environment Committee's website.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u163	Madam President! I have the impression that Mr Viitanen has fought seriously last year to amend this directive, and he spoke about the letter he sent. Perhaps now I would like to hear what was said in this letter, obviously REFIT was spoken to, who it went to, who replied to it, and how the EU reacted to it. It would be interesting to hear.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u164	Mr President! I have just given the answer, and this letter went to the Commissioner at the time, and I think it was a better answer than I could have imagined. I was happy about it and I also told Parliament about it, and these things will all be found. I can deliver them to you if you like. But now let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u167	Madam President! Here comes the sale of swimming pools and ice halls. No one is selling them, or of course they are allowed to sell them if there are specific reasons for it. But how does it relate to this energy certificate: it relates in the way that the committee's report says that the obligation to present an energy certificate applies to public service facilities which are more than 250 square metres, which are the subject of repeated public visits. So it doesn't have to be for sale, because then it would never really be necessary. In working life, any feedback is generally welcome. It is preferable to give positive but constructive feedback on the shortcomings. The worst situation is that there will be no feedback at all. Energy certificate in such large buildings is one way to give feedback on the condition of the building, and when feedback is received, it will be easier for people who are responsible for the condition of the building to react and plan for repairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u168	Mr President! Finally, I wanted to ask you to take the floor, because I am serious about this and I really sincerely hope that this current government, at a time when the directive is being reformed, will also raise this issue there. I would like you, who are here to hear this debate, to be able to influence through your own parties in order for this to happen. This was a matter common to Parliament last season. We responded to the citizens' initiative, took a catch and acted, and now this should go on and not be the other way around. We've got a schedule. It's already in the fall. Now that we have already been in contact with it, that will prevent this issue, too, from being dealt with in the same context. In this very constructive spirit, I just wanted to return to the spirit we found last season, and I would like to make a real appeal to the progress of the citizens' initiative initiated by the Omakoti Union to see what is achieved, to see what is achieved, to try to influence and not immediately to say, like the Finns of Finland, that nothing can be done about this. And then, as far as this domestic legislation is concerned, I believe that the whole Parliament, from this opposition, will also give its support on the day that Minister Tiilikainen brings this reformed law here in the country of origin.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u169	Madam President! Mr. Viitanen just to confirm his memory and knowledge: When you look at the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Committee unanimously stated that it was intended to take it forward and to speed up its completion as well. In other words, what was said jointly during the last parliamentary term is also being taken forward jointly today, hopefully jointly. At least the government parties want to take that issue forward. On this issue of garages, I would like to say so much that garages less than 50 square feet are not now covered by this law,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u170	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 2/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u171	Mr President! I assume that this proposal is something even the opposition can agree with, unlike the debate I have just heard. So it is a tax agreement with Spain, which, of course, has also raised quite a lot of public debate, and finally and finally, this will be brought to the port for us. This began during the last term of government — it was probably Minister of Finance Urpilainen who started these discussions — and this is mainly about the fact that private pensions are now subject to taxation. In other words, there will be a tax agreement between the country of origin and residence, and the so-called reverse credit method will eliminate double taxation of income. In practice: if you live in Spain, you receive a pension from Finland, then you pay the tax in Spain and Finland then tax your own but so that Finland nets the tax paid in Spain. That's the so-called tax exemption. In Spain, we're done with this. It is very difficult to say what the economic impact of this will be, because, on the other hand, we are going in such a way that small pensions are taxed less in Finland than in Spain. But this will now also increase the fact that rental income and proceeds will be taxed on housing shares here, which will certainly have an impact. This is progressing in such a way that once approved by the Finnish Parliament, it will go to the Spanish Parliament for approval and, as is well known, they will have a slight political problem going there. Once they have resolved it and this Parliament has been brought together and dealt with, it will then come into force.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u172	Mr President! What is interesting about the government's proposal is that it needed a so-called bourgeois majority in this Parliament, as the Left would say, to put an end to this again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u175	Mr President! Indeed, we are not opposed to the motion, but, just as the chairman of the tax section, Lintilä, said, this was already initiated in the time of the finance minister, Jutta Urplainen, that it is quite nice that even the Finns of Finland, as the Finnish Government Party, did not go against the progress of this matter. In fact, we are in the same line and have already taken quite a number of measures in our last period and also in our shadow budget to combat tax evasion as well as the informal economy, thereby increasing the resources for this common fund and, among other things, safeguarding education services and others. In that sense, all this is very positive. At the same time, this process in Portugal is taking place, among other things, and in it we want to make a statement at second reading. But it is good and important that this issue is moving forward, and, overall, I would now encourage the government parties to combat tax evasion even more effectively. There were a couple of things on the table here during Question Time, Mr President, the possibilities of capitalisation agreements, the insurance envelopes, as well as this taxation of dividends. Both can be found in the SDP's alternative budget, as well as in the wider involvement of the financial sector. These are the options that will allow us to expand the tax base and thus to work towards these common important objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u176	Mr President! As a comment to Mr Viitanen, it seems to me that with regard to the things prepared in the previous period, there is a slight selective memory of those things that are prepared in the previous period which seem to be nice to bring up and those that have been prepared in the previous period, which are unpleasant, will not be brought up. For example, I remember a drug’s exclusivity and such things. So it's a good idea to sharpen your memory.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u177	Madam President! It is to be welcomed that this can finally be achieved. But about the alternative budget for the SDP: There is now, among other things, an investment of 20 million in the black economy in income of 200 million; Sitra's 350 million internal transfer, which has nothing to do with the right budget; a savings target of 200 million has been calculated for the bank tax, and this implementation model of yours is based on the fact that Sweden may receive 400 million of this. In Sweden, this study may not be completed until the end of this year, but you have already managed to make savings of 200 million here, so this alternative budget of yours is rather weak.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u178	Mr President! Unlike the President Lintilä doubted, and it seems that this was also the case, if not by the way, by barking at the SDP's alternative budget. Instead, I would recommend to Mrs Wallinheimo that you genuinely familiarise yourselves with those possibilities — for example, this financial tax is on the move in the Nordic countries and so on. Surely we cannot act now to say that because it is in the SDP's alternative budget, it is not good enough. I would prefer to tax the sector a little more, and at the same time there should be room for manoeuvre, for example, to make the taxation of pensioners fair, which, contrary to the electoral promises of the coalition, has been unequaled by this government. This is now, let us say, the debate we have had quite a lot in other economic policy contexts, but I say that there are good alternatives. I hope that the same attitude as, for example, Minister Lindström had with regard to the Ringe model, that more work will be created, and when we have the Ringe model presented, the Minister has promised that he will investigate it. I'd rather have this attitude. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u179	Madam President! Maybe we should go back to that alternative budget. Could you, Mr Viitanen, find out how you have ended up with that sum of bank taxes of 200 million?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u180	Madam President! Contrary to what the government did, we would be serious about fighting the shadow economy, for example, as the representative said. We have calculated that an investment of EUR 20 million could — in a very moderate way — generate EUR 200 million. Unlike, for example, the Central Party in the last period suggested that measures in the shadow economy could generate 600 million, so we did not go into it and made a cautious assessment. And this is based not only on the fact that we increase the various resources that can be used to combat the black economy, but also on various legislative measures. We have access to you, too, even if you can find our programme to combat the black economy, which is being prepared under the leadership of Lauri Ihalainen, and there are good ways to do so. And as you can see, I am in a rather positive mood because I prefer to encourage cooperation rather than at this point in the process of inciting that disunity, because I am genuinely enthusiastic about this. I'm excited about this because there are good options here. We'd be in less debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u181	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 3/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u182	Madam President! This is, in principle, a rather technical and clear government proposal, and, could you say, the loop is gradually tightening. So this is an automatic exchange of information between financial institutions and the property of a person living in Finland abroad and vice versa. And when we have just announced the activities of the grey economy, this is one of the clear ones that will put people who have circumvented taxation even more rigorously. So much must be said in that recent debate that two terms must now be distinguished: tax evasion and the legal capitalisation agreement. They're two different things. So instead of creating the image that the Social Democrats are clearly trying to create all the time, it would be quite nice of you to distinguish between these two terms. But what is really behind this is the OECD and the G20 agreements on the exchange of information with America already entered into under the FATCA agreement, i.e. the exchange of this information. Indeed, I have a very strong belief — unlike the feeling that the shadow economy will be constrained in government terms — that this is a very long-term matter. This will go beyond the reigns, and this should be continued. It is great that this now comes to the extent that the OECD is capable of doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u183	Madam President! We are here to support this proposal and, as I said, all this kind of action is necessary. They need to be done very quickly and actively. After all, we are not simply, indeed, against that tax evasion. We'll have to weed it out. It must have zero tolerance, and regulation must be strict in this respect. But, of course, we must also look for ways of curbing tax planning, which is perfectly legal in itself, and there are many. Then there is the third dimension to this same subject, that is to say, the whole issue of combating the shadow economy, for example, which was mentioned here. All of this is one of the measures that we could use together. That is why, for example, our own presentations are partly based on an extension of the tax base as well as on the elimination of tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u184	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 2/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u185	Madam President! This report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health concerns a proposal from the government proposing to amend the Act on the protection of athletes' accidents and pensions. This will change the minimum age of the old-age pension from the present 65 years to the minimum age of the old-age pension in accordance with the Employment Pensions Act, i.e. the same is now added to the pension reform. At the same time, the maximum insurance age is changed from 43 to 65. There are also a number of clarifications and technical changes. In addition, it is proposed to amend the Act on the compensation of farmers under the Health Insurance Act. According to the proposal, farmers would not be entitled to a daily allowance under this law if they were entitled, for the same period, to a loss of earnings under the Act on Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases, on the basis of an accident at work or an occupational disease. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health very much welcomes the further development of social protection for professional athletes. The professionalisation of sport is true, and sports careers have also been extended, and thus the number of people who receive the main income from sport has grown. The statutory protection of an athlete’s accident and old age has been provided by insurance from private insurance companies, which have only been granted by a limited number of insurance companies. In the past, the committee has called for a review of the regulation in order to ensure that the statutory insurance cover of an athlete can be ensured. According to the Government's proposal, the insurance company will have to notify the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health within the time limit if the company intends to withdraw from providing insurance under the Act on Sports. On the other hand, this does not eliminate the risk that there will be no willing insurers in the market, but in the future the authority will be informed in good time of the withdrawal of the insurance company and then, if necessary, measures could be taken to ensure that the insurance cover for athletes is provided. The Committee notes that there are still shortcomings in the social security of professional athletes and that this needs to be gradually corrected. Like the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, the Committee believes that in future consideration should be given to, among other things, the inclusion of athletes in earnings-based unemployment benefit. The fact that the funding base for sports activities is narrow and, on the other hand, that there is also a high risk of accidents makes it possible to develop social security for athletes. In order to remedy these shortcomings, the committee believes that efforts should be made to ensure that payment obligations increase only moderately. The committee noted that cost management is also essential for the effective implementation of insurance cover. Like the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, the Committee also expresses its concern that in recent years there has been a significant reduction in the insurance of individual athletes in the field of statutory social security. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health therefore agrees with the view of the Committee on Education and Rural Development that the opportunities for athletes to train themselves in other professions during their careers in sport should be promoted. It is also important to facilitate cooperation between sports organisations and training authorities in order to combine sport and study during an active career. Mr President! The report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is unanimous and the committee supports Parliament's approval of the legislative proposal contained in the government proposal as unchanged.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u186	Madam President! I'm glad to see that so many people are interested in this sportsman's social security. The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Act on the Accident and Pension Protection of An athlete. The Government's proposal is welcome and supported and, in some respects, improves the social security of professional athletes. The proposal is based on the unanimous proposals of the report of the working group on social security for professional athletes. The proposal is a step in the right direction, but unfortunately it is still completely inadequate. In practice, the changes now proposed will only improve the situation of team athletes. For individual athletes, social protection remains virtually non-existent. The Act on the Accident and Pension Insurance of Athletes now only obliges team athletes. The statutory accident and old age protection of the athlete has been arranged by insurance from a private insurance company, which is granted by only a few insurance companies. There are currently some 1200 insured athletes and the majority of them are hockey players. Individual athletes were involved in the obligation for some years, but now insurance is voluntary. There are currently 8 individual athletes under insurance. The Olympic Committee has about 200 support athletes and some 400 members in sports associations, that is, individual athletes. If you include young athletes who practice professionally, the number will increase considerably. Therefore, voluntary action will not achieve comprehensive assurance with the current system. The reason for the existence of a special insurance scheme in the field of social security for sport has been explained by the narrowness of the funding for sport. This is partly true, but there is no sufficient reason why social security cannot gradually be improved. Mr President! To understand the problems of an athlete’s social security, it is good to know a few facts about the role of athletes. The biggest difference between individual athletes and team athletes in terms of social security is that individual athletes do not have an employer. Athlete is a professional who, in practice, mostly has an official status as a student or another professional in the category. A few are entrepreneurs. Even fewer, if any, are employees. The impression that athletes are well - performing, often conveyed by public opinion, is largely wrong. In Finland, there is a number of single-hand athletes who earn so well as athletes that there is no need to worry about the future after a sports career. For those who have enough income security during sports, even a year or a few years of transition, such as studying or looking for work, there are roughly about ten at a time. Athlete’s income is entirely dependent on success, and generally all income received is used for sport. The athlete wants to be the best in the world, and his own future security does not weigh much on the scale. If the income from sport increases, it is usually used for sport, better training conditions or increased training. Mr President! Pension accumulation is one of the most important development areas in the social security of sportsmen and women throughout their lives. In practice, the careers of professional athletes are now long and there is a 10 to 20 year gap in the active retirement career. I therefore feel that the most important development for individual athletes would be the development of a pension insurance system. Priority should be given to the possibility for athletes to move to MYEL insurance. This could start with athletes receiving grants from the Ministry of Education and Culture for athletes. I hope that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will begin the investigation as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to comment on the opinions of the Committee on Education and Social Affairs and Health on studying in the course of a sports career. Significant progress has been made on this side in recent years through the sports academy system, and that is of course very welcome. However, that does not solve this problem of pensions. It may help that after a sports career there are other options, or in the event of sudden injury. A further point to this end is that I personally do not see the possibility or reason for including individual athletes in this current system because, as has been mentioned earlier, there is a high risk of accidents in sport, but there are very wide variations between species and the price of this insurance is, of course, in keeping with the risk assessments. This means that the price of its insurance is so high that the contribution to the pension accumulation is virtually non-existent. That is why it is not a very good protection for pensions. As far as insurance is concerned, the support athletes of the Olympic Committee are currently insured in terms of accident and illness, but others depend on taking care of it themselves or not. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u187	Madam President! The committee's report, like the entire government's proposal, leaves a somewhat contradictory feeling. Of course, I must admit that it is an excellent thing that there is at least little room for improvement in the position of professional athletes. It's been a really long journey to this point, too. The objective of identifying and correcting social security deficiencies for professional athletes was already included in the programme of the Board of Directors of Katainen, which started in 2011. Therefore, all the parties represented in this Chamber have, in one way or another, also been speeding up this issue, and I thank you all for that. Madam President! This contradictory feeling is due to the fact that even after these reforms, those who are a sportsperson are disadvantaged in many, many areas of the rest of the population. The most visible are the following six: First, general employment pension legislation still does not apply to athletes. Secondly, athletes remain outside normal accident protection. Thirdly, the regulations on occupational diseases will not apply to professional athletes. Fourthly, even the model of insurance for grant recipients planned during the last parliamentary term will not be extended to athletes. Fifthly, the coordination standard originally designed for the law has been omitted. And lastly: unlike ordinary workers, professional athletes will not be entitled to earnings-related daily allowance in the future. This was also the case in the committee's report. There will therefore continue to be a task for a handful of decision-makers who are concerned about the role of sportsmen. It would now be essential to mobilise a programme that would seek solutions to these shortcomings. Mr President! I am also genuinely concerned about the future of the package on the protection of the old age of athletes designed to follow up this law, namely the provision of protection for athletes in the pension fund. The latest information on the Ministry is that the reform of the relevant pension fund law is likely to be postponed until the end of the parliamentary term. However, I would now appeal to the Minister to move this matter forward at a faster pace. Let us not allow athletes to expect greater protection from old age as long as the improvements that have now been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u188	Mr President! It is good that the social protection of professional athletes will be further developed. Indeed, this proposal improves the position of athletes by raising the maximum age for insurance from 43 to 65 years, while at the same time aligning security with other occupational pension insurance by linking the minimum age of an old-age pension under the Act on Sports with an old-age pension under the Employment Pensions Act from the beginning of next year. However, there are still shortcomings in the social protection of professional athletes which need to be gradually addressed. Further preparation should include, for example, the inclusion of athletes in earnings-based unemployment benefit. However, the fact that the funding base for sports activities is rather narrow and, on the other hand, that there is a high risk of accidents makes it possible to develop social security for sportsmen. It is a fact, therefore, that bringing athletes under the general employment pension, unemployment insurance and accident insurance legislation would entail significant costs for both athletes and their employers. However, there is little reason to take action to correct these shortcomings. It is worrying that the insurance of individual athletes in statutory social security has decreased significantly in recent years. In my view, it is particularly important to promote the opportunities for athletes to train for other professions during their careers in sport, and cooperation between sports organisations and different training bodies should facilitate the integration of sport and study during their active careers. There is still much room for improvement here, although there are good examples. It is possible to combine top-notch sports and studies if there is flexibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u189	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 2/2016 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u190	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. In this context, a debate on item 9 is also allowed. This is Mrs Eloranta first, and then Mrs Myllykoski will present the second bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u191	Mr President! Small breweries produce less than 3 per cent of all beer production in Finland. However, the small brewing sector is a growing industry. In difficult economic times, support for all domestic industries will increase employment and bring increasing optimism. In Finland, the size of small breweries varies from micro-enterprises employing one person to small enterprises employing dozens of employees. There are currently 60 small breweries operating in Finland. About 60 percent of these produce less than 200,000 litres of beer a year. However, small breweries are an important part of local small-scale entrepreneurship in their regions and often play an important role in the region, also in terms of tourism. This is why the operation of small breweries must be supported. In addition, allowing direct sales of mild alcoholic beverages to small breweries of up to 4.7 per cent would not cause social or health problems, but would also contribute to more expensive and special Finnish beers and strengthen local small business activities. For example, sales directly from breweries in connection with visits to different groups of visitors would highlight and strengthen locality and facilitate entrepreneurship. Allowing small breweries to sell up to 4.7% of soft alcoholic beverages directly would be a reasonable relief, which would have no negative effect on public health or competition, since these drinks are often linked to beer activity rather than to problematic use. The direct sale of beer from small breweries is too difficult at the moment. Currently, direct sales of these beverages containing less than 4.7% alcohol from small breweries are possible only by setting up a food kiosk at the brewery that meets all the requirements set by the Regional State Administrative Agency for Food Shops. In kiosk there must be a set of food products from different product groups. Furthermore, sales of alcohol must not be in a dominant position in the kiosk as regards total sales. At the moment, however, the alcohol sales of small breweries selling their own beverages are easily more than half of the total sales, since the actual strategy of any small brewery does not include the sale of food. Comments have also been received from the Regional State Administrative Agency for small breweries. The arrangement is difficult and pretentious and creates temptations for the circulation of legislation. The authorisation procedure is also difficult in the sense that authorisations are no longer granted to all regions, as the Regional State Administrative Agency considers that there are already enough of these food kiosks in some regions. Thus, a small brewery does not always even get permission for its kiosk. Another alternative to small breweries is selling beer through a local store. In this model the customer picks up his drinks from the brewery or they are delivered directly to him. So the brewery makes two bills. On the other hand, it charges the customer in the name of the local trader so that the money passes to the trader’s account, and on the other it charges the trader with a lower amount. This is a proposal by the authorities for an approach where the existing law does not allow direct sales. However, the procedure is difficult and pretentious and does not allow direct sales of products to brewers. This bill proposes that Article 14 of the Alcohol Act: It could be amended to allow the retail sale of alcoholic beverages containing up to 4.7 % vol of ethyl alcohol produced by fermentation to be carried out in addition to the alcohol company to which the authorisation authority has granted the retail trade authorisation and, with the authorisation of the licensing authority, to be carried out by an undertaking within the meaning of Article 9 of the Act on the taxation of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, namely, in particular, this small brewery in respect of the products it manufactures itself. The retail lobby and the grocery trade association are also in favour of allowing sales to small breweries. However, the extension of direct sales to more than 4.7% alcoholic beverages, as is the case with this next initiative, is not justified in the opinion of the authorities, because they therefore believe that the right should also be allowed to allow other Europeans to have more than 4.7% beer. The measure would discriminate against producers from other Member States who have access to the Finnish market only through Alko and, at the same time, would seem to contradict Alko's monopoly position. This initiative therefore limits this direct sale to these beers below 4.7%. The overall reform of the Alcohol Act is apparently coming to Parliament shortly, and its purpose is, of course, to increase the possibilities for legislation and control to prevent alcohol harm and to develop local opportunities to influence the safety and integrity of the living environment. I hope that supporting small breweries by allowing this above-mentioned direct sales will be part of this overall reform of the alcohol law. In these economically challenging times, we must do everything in our power to improve the operating conditions of the domestic industry, especially when, in this case, it cannot be regarded as having harmful social or health effects, even though it is a brewery industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u192	Madam President! I will catch up immediately before the presentation of the way in which this could be contradictory to this 4.7, when, in my own legislative initiative, the last period, which was signed by everyone, almost everyone, a representative of the parliamentary group, is certainly not a contradiction to what is the percentage of what is important for EU law or for Alko's monopoly. The question is that we can sell and promote our own production here, and that is why we do not prevent foreign operators from doing so here. These two legislative initiatives do not prevent Irish or Belgian small brewery operators from coming to Finland and starting to make beer here and sell these products from their brewery. I do not see the contradiction here that this is somehow a difficult issue that would break the Alko monopoly. Every entrepreneur must have come to this country. During the previous term of government, I am sure that during this term of government, the government parties believe that we want investment in this country. And yes we can expect — welcome to this country, Belgian brewers, who can then sell their own brewery products there from their own place. It is fine, and in that sense we will not have any problem with EU legislation. But why I have raised this percentage to 9.5 in my own bill involves the fact that it is particularly important in the circles of taste pleasures and beer enthusiasts that when you want good beer, you want good beer. And as we heard earlier, neither do I believe that any large consumer will come to the door of a small brewery to get a hangover. Yes, they are people who want to enjoy a good beer. We must remember that this is completely domestic at the moment, that is, on a grain basis. For consumers, the employment effect is around 30000. And slightly contrary to what was stated above, so at the moment, according to the 2014 statistics, small breweries produce 3.4% of all sold beer, but there are 10 % of the employees in the sector — and these are domestic companies, and thus this is very important for the employment of workers in primary production and then for industry. Surely we cannot argue that the situation is not that if we produce beer for large, completely foreign companies, then we can be a little selfish and produce this quite domestic and increase employment and thus also safeguard the potential of primary production: pure, fresh grain and beer made from it and the whole chain here nationally. This has a very great opportunity, also in terms of tourism, and I very much hope that, when the overall reform of alcohol law comes to Parliament, it will not only be dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, but will not only take into account the fact that alcohol is our everyday life, but also that it will have an impact also from the point of view of the Economic Committee, where tourism, competition, consumer perceptions are present, and the fact that the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, which is responsible for a large part of tens of thousands of hectares of arable land, which is in this chain of the beginning of our alcohol production, is involved. Last week we discussed the bill brought by Mr Kaikkonen, how alcohol is consumed at public events. It was gratifying for such a hundred people to note that at that time there was a particular debate about the possibility that it might still be possible for the organisers and the police in Pori Jazz and Järvenpää to decide by mutual agreement on how to drink alcohol. We need to open up our alcohol policy debate more honestly. We should not create opportunities to drink, but we must create opportunities to enjoy. Mr President! Allowing small breweries to sell out would reduce unnecessary red tape and would have no negative social or public health effects. The hobby of special beers is comparable to that of wine, and therefore the products of small breweries do not lead to problem alcohol consumption.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u193	Mr President! After all, alcohol policy is an issue that often evokes feelings, and sometimes it feels that it may be difficult to discuss it civilly, but fortunately this time it is not a matter of concern: when we are only with Mrs Myllykoski in this Chamber, the level of debate will remain civilised. I am delighted to welcome these initiatives. In my opinion, it would be very important for small breweries to be given the right to sell out. These are the points of view that have already been made very strongly. We know that although alcohol causes a wide variety of social and health problems, these special beers may not be the product group that causes them a lot, because they are precisely products favoured by beer enthusiasts, which are even more expensive than the basic medium beer that is usually used for the purpose of drunkenness. Then, on the other hand, we know that small-scale tourism breweries have a very great potential, and that is why this right of exit would be particularly important for them so that various tourist services and products can be created around it. It is unreasonable that now these small breweries, who are selling out, are often forced to do so by means of a round trip and a little vis-à-vis them by developing the conditions so that there should be more than half of that kiosk. In a way, it is done very artificially, we are developing ways of crossing the border, and it is not a sensible policy for us to create laws that then cause us to think about how to circumvent them. As has been pointed out here, from the point of view of employment, the importance of small breweries in terms of employment relative to how much they produce is considerably greater. That is why I see that now that a lot of small breweries have been born and more are being created all the time, we should consider how we can make their business more sustainable, and that their ability to sell out themselves is one way of doing so. As far as this percentage is concerned, it is quite true that these special beers are often stronger than 4.7 per cent, and in that sense I would think it reasonable not to put the limit on this 4.7, but perhaps that 9.5 or someone in that direction might be the limit to achieving the percentages that these special beers produced by small breweries often have, because from the point of view of beer enthusiasts, that taste will then be created there. But all in all, now that we know that the alcohol law is coming to us for discussion, I would like it to really take into account other aspects than just the social and health perspective, although of course it is perhaps the most important aspect of the law as a whole. But let's not hinder the emergence of new entrepreneurial activities, not prevent us from using small breweries to employ more and more people, and not prevent consumers from having better access to high-quality domestic beers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u194	Madam President! I'll try to crystallize for two minutes. I may not be able to do it, but then I'll book it one more time. Now I have to say that this is a good debate in the sense that, although this debate is being held by a small number of people, it is really important that we can see what tourism and the whole of industrial policy is like, what this Parliament could do about the overall reform. It is important to see why a small brewery with a kiosk must have its own door. It is not in the legislation, it is just a decision made by an official that you cannot buy small brewery products — if you have a kiosk, you have to have your own entrance. You can't go through the warehouse, you can't go through the restaurant, you have to have your own entrance. It's impossible in real estate. We have uncontrollable bureaucracy in this whole system. It would therefore be important to see that our alcohol culture would go in the direction of making it easier for us to have so many jobs in restaurants, for example in the service sector. Although the Social Democrats in this House disapprove of the government's reduction in the taxation of alcohol, I have to say, as a left-winger, that I sympathise with the government at this point, and I am prepared to lower the price of the restaurant alves so that we can control consumption: not to controlled conditions, but to where there is service, where there is alcohol, or wine, with its food.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u195	Mr President! I would like to add one more thing that I forgot to say in my speech. This motion by Mrs Myllykoski that this bill should also be sent to committees other than the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is, in my view, very important, precisely because it should also take into account other aspects relating to the alcohol law, particularly in relation to the activities of small businesses and the tourist potential that this sale would enable — and why not also the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry in relation to how it affects our farming and those sectors. In fact, if we think about this beer, then the cultivation of hops is something that will certainly become more topical as these small breweries become more and have the need and desire to use domestic hops and it is very scarcely available. That there are other aspects to this than just a social and health policy perspective.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u196	Finally, Madam President, I hope the media is not awake and say that Mr Mikkonen wants to grow drunk among the Finnish people. It was good to mention this too, but what is particularly important is that, in my own legislative initiative, I do not in any way underestimate the harm caused by alcohol. We can't get away with it. We are paying a terrible price for it. The only question is that we can change the alcohol culture in order to avoid these disadvantages while at the same time promoting Finnish business and employment. Let us go hand in hand to a better alcohol culture, give us the opportunity for better behaviour and action, which means that our primary production, our companies, the workers who are paid for it, can work within our own framework so that it is good for all of us. And it is always acknowledged: every litre of drink — it is a tragedy when it becomes overuse. I thank you for the comments I have received today. And especially to the President-in-Office, thank you for joining us on these two points, which were, in percentage terms, different but nevertheless similar.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u197	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. There was a debate just now. Does Mrs Myllykoski wish to speak again?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u198	Madam President! As a petitioner, I would still like to see the committee examined even if the Council of Presidents at its next meeting thinks about it. Should this point already be opened up so that it can be seen that this has a greater dimension than only in the case of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health? I would therefore urge that, if anyone is still sitting in this Chamber at the moment, one might in a way support my view that these two initiatives, and especially my own, could also be considered elsewhere in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-10-ps-22.u199	Mr President! In my view, this view expressed by Mrs Myllykoski is quite justified. In particular, I would see that the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on this would be clever, because there is so much of this tourism and employment dimension. However, I think it is quite reasonable that this aspect should be taken into account at that stage in the legislative process. However, since it will certainly rise later in the debates in the Chamber, I think it would make sense that it should already be taken into account at this stage.
