ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u1	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Constitutional Committee. The first speaker is Minister Lindström. Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u2	Madam President! The purpose of this Government's proposal is to revise the electoral law so that issues concerning the accessibility of electoral authorities are as clear as possible for the election authorities. The proposal proposes to include in the electoral law a general provision on the obligation of electoral authorities to act impartially for all election authorities. In addition, the proposal proposes to add to the electoral law provisions clarifying the assessment of the accessibility of the various electoral authorities. With regard to the members and alternates of the Electoral District Commission and the Central Electoral Commission of the Municipality, the proposal does not change the current practice. However, as a provision to facilitate interpretation situations, it is proposed to add to the electoral law a reference to the accessibility provisions of the Administrative Law, which are currently applicable to the Constituent Board and the Central Election Board of the Municipality. The rules on the accessibility of administrative law would not apply to the members and alternates of the electoral commission and the election committee holding the vote on the election day at the polling station of the voting district. The argument is that these authorities are of a technical nature, and their composition ensures the representativeness of the various voting groups and hence the transparency of their activities. Similarly, the rules on the accessibility of administrative law would not apply to ex-ante voters. The proposed new general rule would direct the election authorities to act impartially in their duties. For practical reasons, it is not proposed to limit the possibility for a candidate or candidate to work as a member of the Electoral Commission or as an alternate. The aim is to ensure that staff are made available to the election committees. On the other hand, a candidate or his spouse, children, siblings or parents could not be a member of the electoral commission or an alternate for institutional voting, as an election ombudsman for advance voting and as an election assistant. The proposal also proposes a revision of the rules on constituencies in Section 5 of the Electoral Act to reflect changes in the municipal division that entered into force at the beginning of 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u3	Mr President! The Government's proposal to amend the electoral law clarifies the basics of Finland's democratic political system. There have been no stages in the 110-year history of the Finnish Parliament, during which there had been reason to suspect that the result of the elections had been fraudulently distorted, as opposed to the genuine will of the people. We have held elections during the years of oppression. We have held free elections in 1919, that is, one year after the bloody civil war, and neither in the 1930s nor in the post-war period have extremists succeeded in exerting pressure on Finnish democracy. Our electoral system gives cause for happiness and even pride. The changes now proposed are fine-tuning a good and functional system. They're still necessary. There's a cure for good. As stated in the proposal, according to the electoral instructions of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, the impartial judiciary should be responsible for applying the electoral law. Political parties must be equally represented in the executive bodies of the elections, or they must have the opportunity to monitor the functioning of an impartial institution. The proposal proposes a provision in the electoral law on the duty of the election authorities to act impartially and provisions clarifying the assessment of the obstacle of the election authorities. In addition, the proposal proposes to amend the electoral law in such a way that the candidate or his or her spouse, children, siblings or parents cannot be a member of the electoral commission or an alternate, an election officer or an election assistant. In addition, the proposal includes a technical amendment proposing a revision of the electoral districts regulation to reflect changes in the municipal division that entered into force at the beginning of 2016. Mr President! Elections in Finland are free and honest. The problem is somewhere else. Elections don't really inspire people to vote. In recent decades, election activity is only at a satisfactory level for the population as a whole. When you look at activity by population group and region of residence, the result falls to avoid and even below it. We have a large number of electoral areas where the majority can hardly be reached. In these areas, the educational background and income level are used to calculate population groups, where only a fraction of citizens' rights are still being exercised. The problem of low participation is difficult to solve. However, it would be appropriate to refrain from any action which might exacerbate it at present. One such measure, Minister, is to keep the number of elections reasonable. The election of MPs, the election of the President of the Republic, the municipal elections and the elections of the European Parliament elected in Finland are now being held. This year is a rare one. It's not an election year. I hope that we will no longer build new levels of government whose elections will further reduce... [The President MariaLohela : Here there is a great deal of meat on the skippinan,that is I would ask you to move these other debates outside the Chamber and focus on the person who is speaking here. — Please. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u6	Mr President! The proposal for stricter regulation of the accessibility of persons participating in the Electoral Commission is certainly to be welcomed. The current regulation has not been seen to be sufficient and it has also been possible to make different applications in different localities. In a democratic system, election delivery is almost sacred; therefore, regulation of it must be as precise as possible. At the same time, it must be remembered that many members of the electoral committees who are now absent have been doing perhaps good, unscrupulous work for decades. It's not about distrust of them. It is not only enough to act impartially in the electoral process, but also to look impartial. These same questions have also been considered on the church’s side as regards congregational elections. For example, it has been weighed that if obstacle is defined as so extensive, it may be difficult for small congregations to find election officials. Similarly, when election committees are elected, it may become a problem that, at the election stage, the person does not yet know whether he or she is going to run for election. Another point worth noting is that candidates for election have received a kind of free advertisement by sitting at polling stations. For example, officials sitting at advance polling stations in shopping malls have been unwittingly able to present themselves as advertisements. I have heard, for example, a case in which a gentleman who was drinking alcohol went to the voting booth and said to himself in it that — and said it with a very loud voice — ‘I think I am going to vote for it’. And the hostess in question happened to be present at that election site. Even after the amendment of the electoral code, unethical candidates can, for example, carry people whose understanding of the importance of the vote has been weakened because of a disease. Now that they are not allowed to go into that voting booth, however, it may be a measure of prevention. So we must always be very careful about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u7	Mr President! I have been thinking about the fact that we now have municipal elections, regional elections, parliamentary elections and European elections, and on top of that, the church elections, and the fact is that people have very little interest in politics today and there are quite a few places where there really are quite a few voters. But there are also quite a few places where there are also candidates, so it is very easy for the same people to sit in church councils, municipal councils, regional council and parliament. However, it is not acceptable for Parliament and the European Parliament to be at the same time. Minister! Is there such a risk that, when there are so many elections, the same people will be candidates for all elections and will become a concentration of power, forgetting that skilled, good municipal politicians could make municipal policy and they should have good relations with regional policy, and there would be regional politicians who do good work there, and they should have direct contact with Parliament in exactly the same way as municipal policy should be. It is certainly a fact that if the same person is elected in all these elections, one of these jobs will suffer. There is nothing you can do about it, because we all have only 24 hours in the day, and some people still spend as much as 8 hours sleeping, so there is little time to get to grips with things. This is something that you might want to pay attention to now, if one more intermediate election is made to this, that who are eligible to be nominated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u8	Madam President! As has been pointed out here in several speeches, we in Finland have an honest election and there is no electoral fraud, but the problem is that in our electoral system, which gives the major parties more than they should and, in turn, takes seats from the small ones. And small constituencies linked to this d'Hondt system are, of course, the main problem of our electoral system, although that is not what this proposal is really about. But, of course, it is very important, just as has been said here, what this matter looks like outwards, and that we cannot, for example, act as an election officer or an election assistant as a candidate or his close relative. Of course, there may be some challenges in small municipalities and small voting districts, especially when it seems that political activity is something that is in the family. Many times, then, family members are also involved in the party work in some way, and usually those close to them become those who are then themselves a member of the party, and when these places are shared between different parties, this problem may arise in very small municipalities. I would have liked to have heard a little of the Minister's assessment that this has been clarified in advance. It has also been pointed out here that we currently have an abundance of these elections, and now, if we are still in the process of establishing self-government areas, whatever form we are in and what number we are in, it will certainly become one more election. And of course it is important that it is a direct national election, otherwise it is probably pointless to talk about any form of self-government, but it would certainly make sense to consider how these elections could be combined. Of course, that municipal election would seem most natural in that context, and I think that if we are unable to link up with future municipal elections, then it would be appropriate to postpone these formations of self-government regions until we can organise this matter together with the municipal elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u9	Mr President! This debate has forgotten the fact that we have elections — one of the most reliable elections in the world, free, secret, relative elections, the result of which is calculated very quickly — by volunteers. This election is carried out by all of us in our parliamentary groups and by many of the parties outside this Parliament, and it is quite a blubbering and voluntary campaign, every election, as has already been mentioned here, and this cannot be underestimated in this debate. I would like to thank the government and Minister Lindström for the fact that the so-called common sense has now been included in this legislative amendment. Elections must appear reliable and credible, but there is no point in entering too bureaucratic, too complex, obstacle rules. Then the rest of them will end in political activity, the activities of the various parties. I share the concern that has arisen in this debate that we should get more people to participate in party work, and that people should be able to run for election. Now it seems that everyone prefers to use online banking credentials to drag down these citizens' initiatives and not join in the election work. Mr President! When women’s day is celebrated, it would be very important for women involved in municipal and regional policy — if they have small children — to actually have the genuine family care allowance that the municipal law now allows. At the end of the day, President, I would like to comment that I do not share this concern about electoral fatigue. People like direct elections, choosing people. It is absolutely necessary to have regional elections in the context of regional reform, and I would even be prepared to consider the selection of mayors directly in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u10	Madam President! I'm sure there's something about this show at hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u13	Madam President! After all, when Mrs Lindtman raised this in her speech, does the SDP's parliamentary group and the Social Democrats have any objection to the direct election of the regional decision-makers? I would now like to ask whether the SDP does not accept direct elections in the provinces, whether there should be an indirect choice of who in one of the workers' associations. And now, for the sake of clarity, I would like to say that the Party Secretary of the Social Democratic Party, the Party Secretary of the Social Democratic Party, has also been in the working group that has considered these elections. Here the government is aware of this; you are confused if someone is confused — and I do not believe that now, perhaps this is a bit of a Tuesday tune.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u14	The possibility of making a reservation has now been opened, and many of these requests have already been made in the past. So let's go to the debat for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u15	Mr President! First of all, there is reason to agree with this proposal by the government itself. Among other things, these freezing regulations need to be updated. But it is equally clear that there are, of course, a lot of big issues that are genuinely open in this context, and they concern, for example, this unification of elections. After all, Parliament has not been informed of what the government intends to do about this. I consider it quite reasonable that Parliament should also be told what elections are to be held and what timetable. This cannot be an exclusive right of the government, that elections are scheduled within the government, but that decision-making must involve the whole parliament, as has been hoped. Then, if you look at this regional reform, I think it is clear that if you give such important tasks to the provinces as the government's policy last autumn, then it must definitely be the responsibility of the voters. So we have to assume that the voters choose the decision-makers. The rest would be rather strange in relation to democracy and retrogradeism. Then it is one thing that we still have a lot of elections and we have a lower turnout than the Nordic countries, which means that the elections should be combined. I would be in favour of combining all three elections, parliamentary elections, municipal elections and regional elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u16	Madam President! On a women's day, I saw good luck to all women's colleagues. It is great that we in Finland are the first women in the world to come to Parliament, and also that there are many young mothers of young children doing decision-making work here. I personally think it is important that the system is such that everyone can take part in the decision-making process. As Mr Kurvinen pointed out, volunteers carry out a great deal of work in organising the elections, and one of the concerns is that in some places we will find enough of these staff. I was a little surprised that there was a desire to limit people's participation in the elections from the ranks of the True Finns. I would also like Minister Lindström to comment on this. I agree with Mr Heinäluoma that, when such a thing is born, the first decision-makers must be elected directly by the national elections, not through councils, for example, as has been suggested, among other things, from the ranks of the centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u17	Madam President! I think it is a good thing that electoral legislation is clarified, although I must say that I have not heard that there have been any problems as such with these election officials up to now. In that respect, this may not be based on any practical problems, but perhaps on prevention of any problems. In this very context, other needs could be highlighted, such as, in my view, the need to regulate municipalities more closely when it comes to advance polling stations, preferably by obliging them to be equally open in different localities. The number of these varies and so forth, but I find it very unusual that municipalities can decide for themselves how long it will be possible to vote. Regional elections are absolutely necessary in the context of this reform. Indeed, the position of the SDP was unclear when Mrs Tuppurainen specifically criticised the fact that these regional elections should not be held.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u18	Let us take Mr Sarkkinen and Mr Östman before the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u19	Mr President! The Finnish electoral system is functional and reliable, as has been said here. Fortunately, there have been no problems, but the clarification of the electoral law is probably justified. But, as has already been called for here, I would like to know when the next regional elections will be. This clarity is needed in regions, regions, municipalities and also in party organisations. I think it is clear that if an intermediate administration is to be built, then there must be elections, there must be direct democracy. That is absolutely essential. At the moment, we have different regional organisations that make a lot of decisions and carry out tasks, but they do not have direct democracy, and I see this as an absolute prerequisite, the direct regional elections. But it would really be important to combine these elections in order to prevent electoral fatigue. I would prefer that municipal and regional elections be combined with parliamentary and European elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u20	Madam President! It is always nice to discuss the number of elections and their dates, but then, like Mrs Essayah, to raise the issue of the injustice and undemocratic nature of the current electoral system, it is usually the case that others do not want to take part in the debate. Among other things, representatives of large parties, Heinäluoma and Zyskowicz, who are usually very active in all discussions, sit quietly, as are the monuments of Lenin. It is now the case that one seat in the centre costs around 12,700 votes, for example, when the KD has to pay 21,000 votes for one MP. What is your assessment of this system? Is it fair and democratic and would you be prepared to change the current system?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u21	Let me turn to Mr Heinäluoma for a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u22	Mr President! Apparently, Mr Östman was at the coffee table when I just took the floor, and, unfortunately, there is a one-minute limit on these replies, so not all the issues can be dealt with. But I am happy to continue with this question, and this is really a big deal, how to implement the proportionality of this electoral system and how to look at the outcome. We know that in almost all countries attention is also paid to the fact that there are quite high thresholds for votes if there is a completely proportional electoral method. And why did I do that? It is because we want to prevent Parliament from becoming fragmented and weak governments. This too must then be discussed through, that if you go completely into proportion without any division of the constituency, then what will be the end result, so that we can secure a functioning and efficient government, and where will you meet this threshold of votes? It is a whole, as always an electoral system and a political system, and all these aspects must be considered in this context. After all, we have a very low voting threshold in some constituencies at the moment, and I do not believe that this will in any way prevent us from doing so either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u23	Then there is the Minister's speech. — Minister Lindström, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u24	Mr President! Thank you for a good and proper debate on an important issue. Mrs Tuppurainen started her speech by asking when the municipal elections were. The information I have: in April 2017, municipal elections will be held. It's what I have. Many drew attention to the number of elections and the possible combination of them. This is such a debate, which must be thoroughly conducted then within the government, how this would happen and what elections will then be combined. I personally, personally, believe that it is worth considering, in fact, because the momentum of voting has fallen all the time, and that is something to be worried about in order for democracy to become a reality. This same debate must include an online vote on how much it affects voting activity. And we have now seen, through this brilliant system of citizens' initiatives in itself, that people want to have a direct influence and, through this, want to participate in this. This joint decision-making is clearly of interest to people, but I share the concern that election fatigue can occur. Mr Tolppanen drew attention to the fact that all elections can be run by the same candidates: that is the way it is now, and I am sitting in an instance of any appearance, and it is a little sad that there is not every place to be when there is only one person and 24 hours. There is always the argument behind it, of course, that if you are in the council, then there is a connection with the parliament and so forth, and so forth. These things can always be justified in a number of ways. Congressman Saarakkala speculated as to whether there was a reason for this. The information I have, therefore, behind this proposal is that after the 12 municipal elections, the Supreme Administrative Court was forced to resolve complaints about accessibility and that is the background here. Then the Parliamentary Ombudsman has asked the Minister for Justice to consider a revision of the legislation, and now it is done with this refusal. This debate that should now be limited to participation in the elections: I did not understand Mr Heinonen’s thorn in the direction of the Finns. I understood that it was perhaps this speech by Mr Tolppanen, but I did not understand it so that he would want to limit his participation in the elections, but rather he brought up this problem that could become this kind of problem that the same people revolve around in every place. That is how I interpreted his speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u25	Then we will continue the debate, Mr Anttila.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u26	Mr President! Indeed, on this International Women's Day, it is good to say that in 1907 the first 19 women's representatives of the world were elected in the first elections in Finland, and they are historical representatives and Finland holds the world record. Then there is the question of this electoral law: It is good that it is clarified. It is precisely here that we have, among other things, the issue of ice flints behind us. But the way in which we would then gain greater public interest in taking part in the elections, if we consider that we have a relatively high turnout in the presidential elections, then the election situation is very clear. This is a challenge for the parties, to create arrangements for the elections so that citizens know what choice will be made between the various options – then, of course, interest will arise, because it can also be influenced. So, in a way, the ball is in this sense for the parties. Then there is the question of these regional elections. I also agree that regional representatives should be elected directly, and in future they should also have financial responsibility, not alone in accepting what the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is proposing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u27	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Lindström for his good answers. You have clearly listened to the speeches made by the representatives, and that is good and well-founded here. Here, Mrs Saarakkala referred to my speech that it has caused confusion and confusion about the SDP's line. However, I would like to remind you that the confusion is all about government action. We had to bring about social reform in this country, but instead of making decisive progress, the idea of self-government regions and provinces has been raised and there has been talk of regional elections, which disrupted the original idea of organising municipal elections. So this is where the confusion and confusion come from. In my own speech, I referred to the need to focus now on increasing voting turnout, and I personally also consider this possible third tier of government, the provincial administration, to be unnecessary. I would like the government now to focus primarily on war, and then all of us together should focus on the forthcoming municipal elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u28	Madam President! In my view, the very fact that we are creating democratic systems with a direct referendum will increase the level of activity when there is some form of consumer protection for the electorate and the public. After all, since decision-making in social welfare and health care takes place on a rather basic level in joint municipal boards, in the supra-municipal institutions, as well as in special medical care associations, it is precisely because of this that, for example, in municipal policy, voting turnout has been reduced, because people feel that it does not really matter so much whether you vote or not and what you vote in municipal decision-making there. I believe that this is a structural issue and that this reform is needed, and it is very good that it is being carried forward, but it would certainly be important to be informed soon about the time when regional elections are going to take place in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u29	Madam President! This government proposal is very good and worthy of support. It further clarifies this functioning and reliable electoral system in Finland. More attention needs to be paid to increasing voting turnout. There has been a steady decline in voting turnout and worrying developments. In your own reply, Minister, you have just mentioned the online vote and what effect it will have. During the last parliamentary term, there was a parliamentary working party which also explained the electronic vote. Minister, what is your position on the electronic vote? Are we still working on it during this parliamentary term and can we go to it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u30	Mr President! As far as the threshold is concerned, I would have commented on the fact that in those countries where proportionality is more accurate than in Finland there is a threshold. This is the case in Sweden, for example. But to this I would just like to point out that in these countries, for those parties that exceed its national voting threshold, i.e. that they receive representatives in Parliament, the number of representatives they receive in this House corresponds to the relative proportion of the votes cast by the parties. This is not the case in Finland for smaller parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u31	Madam President! The previous government made a report on democracy policy and it is good to read. I can ask you all to read it, because it also shows that in Norway, for example, if I remember correctly, there has been an online vote and it has not been possible to verify that it has known that there has been an increase in voting turnout. But I know there's an online voting project going on at the Justice Department. It was actually started with the possibility of an online vote when it comes to municipal referendums, and that should be the case. But then there's the matter. What is the situation with regard to the regional elections? It would be good if we could have municipal and regional elections together in the future, and it would be very important to know what the municipalities are going to decide and what the provinces are going to decide. All these big things are still open. And who can be candidates — can the same people be candidates both in municipal and regional elections and in parliamentary elections?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u32	Madam President! I understand that, as Members of Parliament, we are very interested in these electoral issues and their details, as Mr Henriksson has said before, but I think it is a little premature for us now to have a very precise debate on the details of these regional elections. Somehow, this regional election debate has started a little bit on schedule, because there will be no regional elections unless there is a regional reform. And there will be no regional reform unless there is a social reform. And there will be no social reform if there is no freedom of choice for the citizens. In this respect, I believe that there is an order of order in which these matters should now be taken forward within the government and the preparation should be speeded up. As far as Mr Anttila's view is concerned, there must be economic decision-making power in these provinces: this is certainly the case, but there should not be such a separate regional tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u33	Mr President! Parliament should always be able to keep the election to itself. That is why it would be appropriate for Parliament to create a system for us to have our own parliamentary electoral working party or committee in Finland to go through these issues. I don't think the party secretaries are the right group to do the groundwork either. I recall that these electoral districts and constituencies were also organized on a rather tactical basis last season, and it is also not right that the various arguments should be used to rhythm the elections over and over again. I myself have been involved in municipal policy since 76 municipal elections,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u36	Madam President! This confusion came from the fact that when the party secretaries were able to reach a unanimous motion that municipal elections would be postponed until autumn, then, during last week's Question Time, Minister Vehviläinen said that they would not be held in the spring. And for this reason, I think that it is appropriate — when each of the municipalities is looking for good candidates — to tell them when the elections are to be held, where I ask you. I don't care what they decide about that election if you get elected. That is the second question. The second question is the regional elections. With regard to the regional elections and their timetable, I agree with Mr Zyskowicz: before we have a decision that such provinces will come, it is hardly worth speculating about the timetable when they will be held. So that's another thing at this point. There must be concern about the fact that, at the moment, the decision-makers are too far away, even if you look at the KAKS report from the Foundation for the Development of the Municipal Industry. So those elected people in that municipality are too far away. What will happen if and when all of these are moved
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u37	Mr President! True, the True Finns are not delimiting who can be a candidate and where can be a candidate. Mr Tolppanen merely expressed his concern at the concentration of power. We have information about what will happen if power is over-focused. It's usually an enemy of democracy. And that's just the way it is, you can't get away with it, and you have to worry about it. And it is worth looking at how it would be good to do things. The way in which the next municipal elections are held — whether in the autumn or in the summer or in the spring, at any time — will be decided at the municipal council, for the time being, exactly what is being decided. Once the regional government is ready, we will know which issues will be transferred to the regional government. Of course, that is something that must also be considered parliamentaryly: what things are being transferred, what things are going to be and where there will be tax rights everywhere — whether there will be too many different tax measures if it is three steps in which taxes will be taken and whether it will bring too much bureaucracy into this activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u38	Mr President! It is good to say that the municipal elections come on time, that is, the house lives in its own way. Representatives Lindtman and others can start their election machine if they feel it. In the Government Programme, we have digitalisation as one of the key strategic guidelines. Even in elections, this Estonian model, i.e. an online vote, must be introduced. Yes, we Finns have the same capacity to act here as Estonia does. I've been familiar with that system myself. It's a good game. The second point is that elections must be united, because if we live each year, it will also stiffen this political decision-making process, in this time of the poll democracy itself, it is sometimes difficult to take decisions that are necessary, both on the labour market and here in Parliament. To Mrs Zyskowicz, it could be said that, of course, the social and regional reforms will come, they are in the government programme, and you should read them from time to time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u39	Madam President! I believe that the transfer of elections is an entirely exceptional procedure and should be used in a very prudent and well-founded manner, because the electoral law, for example, defines four years for municipal elections for the electoral term. The elections divide power, and then, if the elections are postponed, the powers will also be transferred to those elected delegates and then the electorate will not be able to influence them. So a political decision to postpone the elections is an exceptional solution. And this solution, in which municipal elections were already postponed to spring, must be recognised and should not be moved further, as otherwise the parliamentary term would increase by a quarter. Then on this electronic vote: the elections are secret, and we know how easy it is to hack people's bank accounts and other information. That is why the digitisation of elections and the online vote must be fully secure and the information system secure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u40	Mr President! It is obvious that if the intermediate administration comes, there will be sufficient tasks for the intermediate administration, there must be directly elected decision-makers and there must also be tax law. There must be power and responsibility and funding in the same place. But here Mr Paatero pointed out that local authorities already feel that power is far away, and we must remember that in the capital region, for example in my home town of Espoo, the largest residential areas are the same size as the two smallest provinces at the moment. In fact, we should also talk about local democracy and about people getting a genuine sense of participation at local level, and then I think that when we talk about the number of elections, we should be able to go in the direction of electing district councils or decision-making bodies to carry out local democracy and to elect decision-makers by election. As far as the Estonian model is concerned, it certainly deserves to be clarified, but we also need to take into account the criticism and what has been noted there, for example, in relation to this secrecy and the technical implementation of the elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u41	Mr President! I am a little surprised at this debate in the sense that many left-wing politicians have pointed out that this is where we are in the process of building an intermediate administration. I would like to remind you that this intermediate government already exists, but that democracy there is not going to happen. And now, in the final analysis, the question is whether or not we are in favour of a democratic intermediate regime, which is something that anyone can ask themselves what every party should be thinking about. That is what all this is all about, and I would like to see those answers in this Chamber and in the debate as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u42	Mr President! When we are discussing this amendment to the electoral law and these obstacle regulations, and the question of the rationality of the unification of the various elections has arisen here — what the minister said was worth explaining — then it would be good if we were to agree very much here that this could now be clarified and that a project of some kind could be put into motion, because the fact is that if we look at Sweden, for example, where three elections can be held at the same time, the turnout is there in 80, and then when we talk about this model of ours, then everything must be done separately, and we know from the voting percentages that they are very low and continue to count, and that is why I would think it reasonable that now that, when new elections are going to take place — because it is quite reasonable that people should also be elected in the provincial administration — so in the future that every election would then be held on the same day. This would also mean that a small number of electoral officials would certainly be able to hold three elections. But also to the question that, now that the regional elections are held, it would be good to have clarity so that it does not have to be drawn constantly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u43	Madam President! This government proposal is a good one. I myself myself, as an election officer and candidate, have sat there at the same time and wondered if this is all right, and it is good that the change comes. As far as the regional elections themselves are concerned, I would not be so concerned that when the regional elections are coming now — first the reform must be carried out and then the elections should be considered. What I would like to ask the relevant Minister, Mr Lindström, is that, with the European elections and parliamentary elections almost at the same time in 2019, has the government considered how to resolve the problem, how to get candidates, who are sufficiently interested in both elections, and then the voters to take an interest in those elections? One part of the election is, of course, the fact that where the candidates will receive the funding for the election, and I myself have tabled a resolution on the electoral ceiling or the campaign ceiling and compulsory prior notification, and I hope that I will then receive a proper response from the minister concerned to my written question about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u44	Madam President! I would like to express my thanks for these wishes for Women's Day, and in the interests of equity, I also wish all men a happy Women's Day.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u47	Mr President! When it comes to elections, it is always about democracy, and democracy involves an open debate. There have been many speeches in this Chamber right now about why we are now discussing it so much, because the elections are and whether the elections are being postponed or not. Isn't it really great governance and democracy that we can discuss in Finland so openly? We are also listening to the opposition's opinion on the matter, on the different patterns that should be followed. And now the leader has made his decision that the elections are, when the municipal elections are, now the decision has been made, and now there is an open debate in accordance with the democratic rules, because then there will be regional elections. We will then look at the outcome and hopefully our good management team will make a decision on that again at the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u48	Mr President! This proposal is justified and I support it, but I do raise the concern that, in small municipalities, for example, in municipal elections, in my own party, virtually all the active people are candidates and that it may be difficult simply to find members of the electoral commission or election officials or electoral assistants who are not candidates or their immediate relatives. But then to this debate on these regional elections. I would like Minister Lindström to confirm now that there is no doubt that the first administration, the first provincial council, will also be elected by direct popular elections, because the government has also revealed the option that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u49	Mr President! Mr Räsänen raised an important point. Now, depending on the way in which the electoral process is being created in a possible new, starting organisation – of course, there are still a lot of steps ahead of it – it will be decided in a significant way how that organisation will start. If the councils elect representatives from among themselves for this new provincial administration, then the representatives will be appointed by the municipal councils and represent municipalities, just as is the case with the present system of hospital districts. If elected representatives are elected by local authorities, they may be the result of larger entities, or at least of a claim that decision-makers look at larger entities. In other words, this will have an important role to play in the initial election of the new organisation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u50	Madam President! Although this debate on the regional election is not directly linked to the change in today's bill, I too would like to comment on this issue when the criticism arose that this is a completely unnecessary new step in the middle. This is an historic European model, which will finally arrive in Finland. This has been the case for more than a hundred years in many parts of Europe, and we now have such opposition. And I'm sure even last season's government parties will remember how this has come about. If we do not make 20 municipalities in Finland, we must somehow secure that democratic decision of the citizens about the common affairs from that municipality to that level in the province. And there is really no other way to do that than a democratic provincial government. Of course, we have a lot to learn from other Nordic countries, and I would have liked to ask the Minister at the end: do you feel that this forthcoming regional reform would also support an increase in voting turnout to 80% and more?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u51	Mr President! To Mrs Zyskowicz, I would like to say that I believe that the questions raised here by Mr Henriksson and Mrs Tuppurainen regarding both the regional elections and these other issues relating to social and regional reform are entirely appropriate, because the government has stated that in April we should have information, more precise information, on how to proceed with these reforms. So I do not think it is premature to talk about this at the moment, but I really hope that the government will finally adopt guidelines on this, even though I am perhaps still skeptical about whether this will happen. And as far as Mr Anttila's speech is concerned, I totally agree that if we have such a directly elected decision-making body coming to the provincial level, then it must also have responsibility and authority to decide matters. Then there must also be funding behind it and the power to decide on this funding. In that sense, I agree that such a so-called pseudo-democracy should not be created, but that power and responsibility should actually go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u52	Madam President! There have been no problems in these electoral committees in Finland up to now, for example, as a result of suspicion of fraud or other measures to make this government proposal particularly necessary. In this sense, I would like to think in a pragmatic way about how to make a candidate and a relative a problem of ice or ice, because there has been no problem in the past. Unlike Mr Elo, who mentioned that when he was on the election board himself, he was tempted to count his own votes, so at least I did not feel when I was in municipal elections, because it was possible to direct that task to another person. There are ten people on the election board so that they were able to share their duties perfectly. When everyone is from different parties, others are watching each other and this problem was actually never there. In that sense, I am concerned, as many candidates have said, that there are so few people in some places that the candidates themselves are the only ones who count votes in many places because there are no hands and feet for that task.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u53	Mr President! As far as the Electoral Commissions are concerned, this proposal did not make any changes, but it does for this CEC. In relation to this proposal, Minister Tarasti, who has considered it problematic that this regulation of the Administrative Law should continue to apply to the Central Election Commission of the Municipality. In this opinion, he also states that in today's society neighbourhood, hobby, business and friendships are often far more important than distant family relations and the application of the Barriers Act would probably lead to interpretative difficulties. I believe that this is an issue which is also worth considering at committee stage as to whether this is really the case. After all, we have small municipalities where there may really be a problem with the rules on the accessibility of administrative law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u54	Mr President! There has been quite a good debate here and a good reminder of the representative From the corner that we are really the last countries in Europe to move to a real regional government where people can also directly decide on their representatives, then decide on these development issues in the region and then in Finland also in the future on social services. I wonder why the elections are so important to the Members of Parliament. Is it not more important that we now put the regional and social reform to the finish line and ensure that people can secure these services throughout Finland in the future? Let's do it first. In Sweden, for example, as in many other European countries — we can take the example of what is there, what is good and bad — there is already the fact that there can only be two candidates, at municipal, regional and parliamentary level. You can also make your own decision as to whether or not you have to go to all the elections if you feel that your capacity is not enough. For example, I myself have left the municipal elections when I was nominated for the Kainuu Regional elections. For example, there is good experience of what it is like to be in elections at many different levels, whether it is good or bad. I've also done my thesis on the subject. It's worth getting to know.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u55	Mr President! I'm sure everyone in the election will have their own kind of pleasure. I remember the special pleasure of Mr Ben Zyskowicz when Eero Heinäluoma counted his votes in the election of the President. But to the point. I'm sorry that my style became pungent. It's not typical of me, and I'm sorry about that. I have misunderstood Mr Tolppanen's speech and I think it is important that the voters should be able to decide who works where. But what I still want for this debate, and I hope that the Minister will open it up a little bit, is this online vote. I understand that there are people who want to keep the vote worthwhile, to go in a dark suit to vote, but if we want — and as we want — to see the turnout rise, then we need to make voting easier. The electronic voting on the Internet on the street button will then be one way, but also one way to take the polling stations to educational institutions, to supermarkets, to say the least, to libraries that go around the living countryside. In this way we have the opportunity to get people to vote, and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u56	These are the speeches that have been requested, Mr Mäkipää, Mrs Saarakkala, Mr Paatero, Mr Salonen, and then I will offer the Minister three minutes after that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u57	Mr President! In my opinion, when I read this motion from the government, it was only a technical proposal which introduced amendments to the rules on the obstacles to the electoral law and highlighted the duty of the election authority to act impartially in its role. Here comes the addition that the circle of persons is extended so that the candidate’s close — i.e. spouse, child, sibling and so on — cannot perform these duties either. And when I looked at this, there was only one speech, but now it has expanded to exactly where it should not be, and here it goes... It is all right for me to have these forthcoming provincial governments and votes discussed in general, but this is not the place for me to start thinking that, in order for our municipality to have more voting turnout, there could be more voting days and so on. I think we should concentrate on this now and save those drinks when we consider how to get Finland up and so on. Now we have gone just as the proverb says: do not go into the sauna.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u58	Mr President! This debate started from the fact that the SDP representative, Mr Tuppurainen, announced that he was not in favour of intermediate administration and elections to intermediate administration. It was therefore necessary to ask the SDP, as it were, what the SDP's position on this social reform in general is, if there are positions of this kind among the most important representatives. The SDP then tried to turn this around so that the government lost the ball. Yes, more information is needed, I admit it, and preferably soon, but it certainly does not remove the fact that the SDP itself did not have a clear position on this. As far as this proposal is concerned, this situation does not really change with regard to the electoral committees, but may even be the candidate himself. Likewise, of course, the next of kin can act as agents in it. But it is all right to interfere with this election assistant’s activities, so that there are no such candidates or close relatives of candidates.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u59	Madam President! Here, first of all, on this reform, I would like to say that this is probably necessary and good. On the other hand, I like the fact that we have a moment to discuss the biggest administrative reform of 150 years, which is being carried out at the same time. There are different working groups in which everyone can be involved, but it is not possible to discuss it in public otherwise. That is why, of course, I would have liked elections to be a matter which, in a long time, has come and become a matter of parliamentary preparation. And as Mrs Majala has said here, a big leader has now become who said that the elections will be then. This approach may not be what I would like to see in the future, but I would like to see that, when elections are being built for decades to come, preparations will also be made on these issues as between all parties. To this question of the election. There are two constituencies in Uusimaa, one province, we have three provinces, one constituency already at the moment, which means that the situations are very different.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u60	Mr President! At the outset, I must say that the SDP is in favour of direct elections, so that it does not remain unclear to anyone. From what Mrs Zyskowicz said, the solution to the war is still a long way off — no way: 'there will be no elections if there is no...' and so on. It sounds as if such trade is still taking place there about what needs to be done in order to achieve the whole thing. Of course, moving the debate to the elections in this situation will not increase the public's faith in democracy or inspire new elections. If elected decision-makers in Parliament do not find a solution for citizens on the most important issues, namely social and health services, then we will have a deep democratic crisis. This is not a problem for one party or one government, but a problem for the credibility of our whole system. And that is why I very much hope that we will first find solutions to the war, and then we will be able to have a debate on the elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u61	Mr Zyskowicz before the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u62	Madam President! I would like to say to Mr Salonen that it is not a question of some kind of trade going on somewhere, but that I really wanted to express my own view on the order and order in which the various dimensions of social reform need to be prepared. But the position of the SDP on this provincial government and its creation was at least still unclear to me. In fact, I have asked here before that, when the SDP is in favour of social reform and when the organisation of the wars inevitably requires a government, if you are against — as I understood Mr Tuppurainen had objected — I myself was not in the Chamber at the time — the provincial administration now being presented, then what is your government on which this social reform is based?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u63	Let us move on to Minister Lindström's speech on the organisation of the war. — 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u64	Madam President! To begin with, of course, I also congratulate all women on Women's Day. I have other memories of today, but let's not get into it because we're talking about elections. First of all, I will respond to what I do not reply to, namely the timing and details of the regional elections. I'll answer when I have information. You may try to fish, but I will stand firm as a rock. I am not answering this question because I cannot do it yet. But interesting was this debate at all on how to increase this turnout. There were many speeches about electronic voting. I personally think that this card should be translated and viewed. If we can now manage the banking services fairly reliably in this country, it is a strange thing that we are not able to do the same with regard to the elections. I believe in it. Of course it requires preparation, and of course it requires a great deal that information security, privacy, electoral secrecy, everything remains, but it can't be an impossible task now. Estonia is a good place to follow suit. There must have been some mistakes, too, but I know the system works pretty well and it's reliable. Why can't we do that? My predecessor, Mr Henriksson, spoke about the report on democracy policy. Yes, it's been read and hopefully understood. There is this online voting project in the Ministry of Justice, which of course tells us that there is indeed a intention to find out and resolve its benefits and potential disadvantages and problems. They could perhaps be local authorities, who would then be the first test, but no decisions have been made. I personally am in favour of taking this digitalisation, which many people have paid attention to, forward in this sense too. Representative My corner asked me to assess whether these regional elections would increase voting turnout. It might be that the first time would inspire the crowd. It depends on the shape and shape of these things. It is indeed the kind of debate that will take place, the kind of power and how it will take place. It will then become detailed in time. I could imagine the initial enthusiasm could be fine. I say that it hardly goes down any further, because yes, this turnout is on a rather poor level in this kind of country, which leans on democracy, and in that sense all such things that activity could increase, are welcome. So I personally welcome this electronic vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u65	Then let us move on to the list of speakers, Mrs Saarakkala.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u66	Madam President! Election activity is an important issue, because it is desirable that at least more than half of those entitled to vote in each election should use their vote, so it can be said that the system has some legitimacy. This is not the situation in the European elections. This election and the decision-making of the euro have the least legitimacy for citizens, but in other elections the turnout is at least well over 50 at national level, so that the situation is reasonable. But in order to improve this situation, for example, now that this social reform is actually being carried out, a direct national election is needed. The Constitutional Committee also considered it to be the most constitutionally unproblematic option to implement democracy in it during the last term. It was a very important question, because last season the then social welfare reform fell precisely because it provided a broad joint municipal board with no self-government of municipalities. It was precisely the model presented by the Socialist Minister. In that respect, the SDP, if any party is now obliged either to present its own option or to support this government line and to shoot its own lines straight in this respect, because now this confusion is being organised, which occurred during the last period. As regards, for example, voting thresholds in our elections, the Finns Party was the only party in the last parliamentary term to support a system of equalisation that had been left to rest over the elections, which would have implemented proportionality in a perfect way, but that was not supported by other parties, even though many had been behind it before the elections. On the other hand, the regime at the time arbitrarily changed the constituencies against the support of the opposition. Quite radical reforms have been carried out by governments, and now there is criticism of the fact that no parliamentary institution has yet been set up on an issue that is still in the process. Now it is worth looking in the mirror and coming to support the government in this respect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u67	Mr President! However, now that we are talking about the reform of electoral law, we should certainly pay particular attention here to how we can increase the turnout. At the last municipal elections in Vantaa, voting turnout was, I think, above 50 per cent that it has not been far from being able to talk about democracy at all. In that sense, I would like the ministry to come up with some concrete proposals for action, such as this electronic vote, which will certainly create more voting activity in the future if it is properly managed. But I would have asked now, when it is precisely this reform of the electoral legislation that we are talking about, or where it is now, at a time when the candidates or the next of kin of the candidate cannot count those votes on the central election boards and other bodies. Where was the problem actually seen? However, now that it has been said in Finland that this fraud has never happened at any time, what is the problem, why do we want to change this if, above all, it complicates the nomination of candidates for small localities? One concrete proposal for the Minister. On the electoral committee myself sometimes, when I was on the election board, I found the interesting aspect that when people come to vote there and they carry an ID card and then also the ballot with the announcement of the right to vote, I heard from several people who did not vote, they said that they did not go to the vote because they have destroyed that notice. And the note that leaves the ministry, or who knows where it is printed, for everyone around Finland, does not say a word that you do not need this ticket, this is just a declaration of the right to vote, that you only need an identity card. More than 90 percent bring it with them when they vote at that polling station, and many do not understand that the flag does not actually need any form, only need an identity card, so could it be there?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u68	And then to Minister Lindström, a 1-minute reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u69	Madam President! Just a direct answer to why this amendment to the obstacle regulation was introduced, i.e. why this proposal is now being brought here, I repeat: the evaluation of the regulation on the obstacle of the electoral authorities proved necessary after the 2012 municipal elections. It was then that the Supreme Administrative Court decided on a number of complaints about accessibility in connection with the elections and, following these elections, the Parliamentary Ombudsman asked the Ministry to consider a revision of the legislation so that questions concerning the accessibility of electoral authorities were unambiguously clear. This is in the back.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u70	And next on the list is Congressman Elo.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u71	Madam President! In that regard, Minister Lindström has already very well stated the central content of this government proposal, and I would also like to clarify my own speech to the extent that this matter does not affect the Electoral Commission, which means that the candidate can continue to function on the Electoral Commission. Let Congressman Niiko be told that I have not felt embarrassed to count my own votes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u75	Mr President! This proposal, which Mr Lindström has just presented here, is a very good one, and it is good to have a certain degree of clarity and to prevent possible damage. However, I do not believe that there has been any damage done on purpose in the past, but not even by accident in the future. As much as I have taken the floor, I would of course also like to wish you a happy Women's Day, but I personally have to say that I would prefer to take the euro of women to the same level as the euro of men.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u76	Mr President! First of all, I would like to join Mr Tolppanen in saying that I too would rather make progress on equality than on these women's day successes in this Chamber, and I hope that the government will now begin to pursue a policy of equality and will not be satisfied with the health that you are telling us today. As far as this amendment to the electoral law is concerned, this proposal, which is now under discussion, is certainly a step in the right direction, clarifies the situation and has received clear support here from representatives of the government parties as well as from representatives of the opposition parties. I am also pleased that there has been a more fundamental debate in this Chamber about the whole electoral system: we have been talking about whether elections could be combined, whether or not there is a need to be nominated for all elections, if there is a Member of Parliament. The campaign ceilings have also been raised here, Mrs Elo raised these, and I am happy to support this idea. So I also think it would be good if we could get this kind of clear campaign ceiling defined for different elections so that the money would not be highlighted as strongly as it is at the moment. It is a good thing that these issues are discussed, and I would like to see them discussed more often. However, it is a fundamental issue of democracy, and such a debate would certainly need more. But as far as the health of these socialists is concerned, when Mrs Tuppurainen, among other things, criticises the fact that we are not really going to find out what the government is doing here, I agree with the criticism and I would like to see the government now embark on this very social reform, clearly moving forward. I can say that the Socialist Party is not the only one who has been confused about this situation, where we are at the moment. We do not really know what reform the government is preparing: is it preparing for social reform, is it preparing for regional government reform, what reform it is preparing? Yes, I think it is quite a miracle if we really get clearer steps on this issue in April. I hope so, but I still doubt it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u77	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Marin for his support in this matter, namely the campaign ceiling, the compulsory prior notification. I believe that it will receive a very broad support in this House for this path to be taken, and I also believe that the minister concerned will give a proper answer to the question from different points of view, and that is right and that is how it should go. Finally, I would like to stress to Minister Lindström my fear — and I think that many people in this Chamber and also the citizen — about the spring of 2019, when the European elections and the parliamentary elections will indeed be around the same time. I hope that this will create some kind of debate, how we will then really get enough candidates who meet both elections, and then the public too, if and when these elections are not directly combined and are almost at the same time. In other words, I also hope that there will be a broad debate on this both within the government and then between the parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u78	Madam President! When this debate has also raised the question of the right to stand for election and its possible restriction, I would venture to doubt all the ideas that relate to this, because when I have been sitting in the Constitutional Committee for one period, it is quite clear that all those over the age of 18 who are not under any kind of guardianship are entitled to stand for election. I believe that the principle must be adhered to. It will then have to be assessed by voters as to whether a person has the resources to act everywhere, and there is no obligation to vote for such a person if he does not want to. In that respect, it is quite clear. However, when the SDP continues to try to bring to this debate the view that Mr Tuppurainen was concerned that the government had no position, Mr Tuppurainen felt that there was no need for intermediate administration in Finland and therefore no need for these direct new regional elections. This is where this conversation started. Then some of the representatives of the SDP have said that the SDP is behind the direct popular elections. This is why we have had to intervene. This speech by Mrs Tuppurainen has now been attempted as if she had only expressed her concern during this debate, but she has completely rejected the work that the government is currently doing in order to get an answer to it, because and what kind of elections we have with this social war reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u79	Madam President! I myself would like to say a few words about this point raised by Mr Marin about the fact that there are no views here, where the future is taking us. The social welfare reform will be carried out during this parliamentary term and the social services will be organised on wider shoulders in 15 social welfare areas. Then the provincial government will also be brought together as its own regional entities, and that is what I want to defend, of course, by the fact that it will improve local democracy. At the moment, we have provincial councils, council councils of municipalities in education, district councils in hospital, which are virtually undemocratically elected. There the people have not directly been allowed to decide who will exercise the power, and then it will also appear many times in those decisions when the message does not pass. With confidence — these reforms will be brought about. Of course, the more you can support the opposition in these matters, the better and better the reform we will achieve in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u80	Madam President! Mr Elo rightly raised the question that the European Parliament elections and the Parliamentary elections are quite close together in spring 2019. In view of the low turnout in the European elections, the question naturally arises as to whether it would be feasible to combine these elections, because the time difference is not very large, depending on how the electoral periods have now been defined. We would have two years here, in fact three years, to make the necessary legislation, if there is such a will, and it would be interesting to know how Minister Lindström will deal with this idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u81	Madam President! Earlier in this debate, I have stated the order in which I think the government should resolve and decide these different dimensions of social reform and the difficult issues involved. But of course I see that this social welfare reform and this regional reform and the regional elections in connection with it are being carried out hand in hand, because it is precisely this provincial government, these provincial councils and provinces, which then has the responsibility for organising these social services, i.e. social services, their organisation, not their production, but their organisation, that is, it is necessary to have such an administration. Now that Mr Marin has the next floor, I must say that I too have been left unclear in this debate and in the past what the Socialists think is the regime on which these social services are organised. You say you are against the provincial government, at least some of you, and you call on the government to move forward. It is quite the right requirement, this latter one, but it is very unclear to me when you are in favour of organising social services on wider shoulders and in favour of some other key objectives relating to social welfare reform, which is the administration that these social services organise in your ideas and models.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u82	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Savola: in my opinion, the Social Democrats have announced here in clear Finnish that we will support direct elections at regional level if this regional government takes place. At the same time, however, we have expressed concern that the government does not seem to know exactly what reform it is doing. We have argued that we should go ahead with social welfare and health care services, from the point of view of how people receive services, how they are financed, and we should have answers to these. Instead, we have not received any answers to these questions. They are still awaited, and the government has promised that we should be told more about them here in April. However, when I listen here to the speeches made by the representatives of the centre and the members of the assembly, I cannot quite see whether you are even moving one foot in this reform. Are you now doing social welfare reform, are you doing regional reform? What is the position on this tax issue? Is it that there will be no tax at the provincial level, as Mr Zyskowicz represents here, or is it that the tax or financial liability at the provincial level must come, as Mrs Anttila does here? I would like to have direct answers from the government, which is responsible for these issues, at this point in time. How are you going to proceed on these matters? Then we can discuss the regional elections here, the timing of the regional elections. I would like to see some clarity on these too. I am glad that, with regard to municipal elections, some sort of clarity has now been established that municipal elections will be held next spring, just as was the case with the original timetable. But here we saw a strange play about the transfer of these provincial elections, the transfer of municipal elections, and the municipalities have been quite confused as to when these elections are now taking place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u83	Oh, well, looks like we've left our debut open.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u84	Madam President! Now that a direct question has been put, first of all, the answer must be that in April those answers will come to these questions. Of course, certain things are open when reforms are being carried out, but of course, the reform of social security is the starting point for everything, which has already been the subject of a lot of discussion here in the last period, and it has been tried to move forward. It is the number one, but it also involves the reform of the regional administration, which should be carried out and specifically put together local services, regional services on the provincial shoulders, so that local democratic influence can also be demonstrated and, as a result, they can be secured there and more services can be decided on themselves. We have the work of reforming regional government in progress, in a strong one, and the answers will come when preparations are made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u85	Then, on the list of speakers, Mr Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u86	Madam President! I will repeat myself here too and remind the debaters that we really do not have that intermediate administration to build, but that it already exists. It is now a question of whether we want a central government-led intermediate government or whether we want a democratic intermediate government, that is, a regional government. Now, in some way, it seems that during the debate, the social democrats in particular are now going around this issue. You say yes that you will support direct elections if the provincial government comes, but do you also support this regional reform? Do you think that this is the model that should now be used to move forward with this whole package of social welfare reform? That's what I'd like to know. Here again, with regard to these government steps — they are quite clear to me: the groundwork has been agreed, the groundwork has been moved forward, and the details are being refined, as they should be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u87	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Marin for her clear answer. I understand that the Social Democrats are of the opinion that future social services will be organised by the provinces and that the decision-makers in the provinces will be directly elected. I hope that, when Mr Marin is the Vice-President of his party, you will also share this view with others in your party, because here I have listened to the representatives of your party and also followed the public debate, I have seen speeches that specifically oppose this regional government, and I have therefore asked that, well, what is the government on which the demars think the social services will be organised in the future? When Mr Marin asked whether the government is doing either social welfare reform or regional reform, the government is doing both. The government is doing both because, as I have just said, this provincial government is the government on which these services are organised. In addition, it is appropriate to provide the provincial administration with other tasks, which are often carried out today by provincial joint municipal authorities or ely centres, for example. As far as the decision-making of the government is concerned, as we all know, there are a number of bigger and smaller details here that need to be prepared and decided on in order to move forward, and the government is indeed very much at the centre of these issues, including this and next month. This issue of funding was raised here separately. Indeed, the Coalition Party believes that it is sufficient for us to be taxed by the State and we are taxed by the municipality and not to need a third tax authority, that is, the province, to tax us as well. There we see the risk that if there is a third level of taxation, there will be a great risk that the overall tax rate will therefore increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u88	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz must have something wrong with understanding what has been said about my speech. Fortunately, Parliament has such a service that you can read afterwards what has been said in these speeches. I said that if the regional reform takes place — as we do not know at the moment — we have not received any clear answers from the government, how you intend to implement these reforms and we are now waiting for them — then we are absolutely in favour of establishing a democratic system, of course, through elections. But at the moment we do not know how you intend to carry out this social and regional reform, and I am certainly looking forward to these policies of yours when you have quite a lot of questions open here. Then I would like to say to Mrs Kärnä that it is quite true that we currently have intermediate administration, but contrary to what I understand from your speech, it has not been central government, but local government-based. We have had the provincial administration organised on a municipal basis in such a way that representatives of the municipalities are elected to decide, for example, on the regional plans and other tasks of the provincial councils or provincial governments, for example. In addition to this, of course, we have this kind of group-based activity in municipalities — between municipalities there are many joint municipal boards where decisions are made on various matters, some of the decision-making power has been transferred to these. Then we have the hospital districts, and that is where the municipalities appoint their representatives, and that is how it has been based on local government until now, not on central government interests, unless you refer to the state administration, which is, of course, a separate issue. But surely we will remain here with interest to hear these answers, and we are still waiting for these clear lines from the government. As far as you are concerned, I find it rather strange that you expect us to answer the question of how we, as a party, will react to your reform when you have not yet managed to tell us what your reform is about the regional elections, the social reform and the provincial administration. I'll be very interested to see if we can get some answers here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u89	Madam President! To Mr Marin, yes, I was talking specifically about the regional government authorities in the State and now about the regional reform. Of course, we are also currently using the municipal model for social services, and the decision-makers who were then elected in the health care districts are also taking care of matters. However, I personally see that this package, which is now being carried through, clarifies the current situation, and that is what brings democracy to that intermediate regime. I, on the other hand, find it strange that the social democrats are unable to present any alternative, which, in your view, would now move forward. However, the government has a clear marching order, clear steps,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u92	Madam President! I am sincerely sorry for misunderstanding Mr Marin's speech. He himself now said that he did not say that the Social Democrats are in favour of this regional government as a government of social services. When that is the case, then the big question remains, Mr Marin, what is the socialist model of the regime on which these social services are organised? During the last parliamentary term, we all agreed in this House that the organisation of social services requires wider shoulders. The government has decided that the wider shoulders are the province and the provincial level and that the provincial administration is created as the government. But, Mr Marin, what is your view, the view of the Social Democrats? What is the administration on which these services are organised? Asking you this is not strange at all. That is very justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u93	Mr President! Yes, I am a little surprised at this debate now that representatives of both the centre and the coalition are so interested in the Socialist option. We have proposed that we should be happy to come to the parliamentary working group to reform the social and health care sector, this whole. We offered to work together. We would have liked to continue with parliamentary preparation, because this is a major, significant reform that affects the whole population. We were ready for this. We could have made a model there together that would work and make sense, but you rejected it. You, the government, rejected the fact that together we would go ahead with this reform, and here you are now asking us questions in wonder: 'Where are your options?' We would have liked to have reformed social welfare and health care, offered our skills to this whole, because I believe that this is such a large entity that it would require a joint effort by all the parliamentary parties, genuinely. This is a big question, touching every Finnish person, but you rejected the hand of cooperation that we gave you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u94	Madam President! Yes, you, Mr Marin, are now going around like a cat of hot oatmeal. You have been asked a clear question. The government has told us their own model. The Government has stated that the regional government, the provincial administration is created and part of it is social welfare and, as has been pointed out here, other functions of the province, including certain functions of avi and ely. But let us ask a simple question: Mr Marin, if it were up to the Social Democrats alone to decide, what would your administration be for a social welfare administration? Tell me that. But you are the vice-chairman of your party. And if you don't know it, tell me who in your party knows it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u96	Mr President! I am sure that people are already frustrated by the fact that we are discussing social reform when we should be discussing amending the electoral law, but I would also like to see clear answers from the government to this social reform. You are calling for them from the opposition, from the Social Democrats. We would have liked to have done this work side by side with you, because it is a major reform. But you in the government are now responsible for this, because you did not agree to cooperate. I, too, have raised questions here to the representatives of the government about how you intend to resolve this issue of wars, regional government reform, regional election, and we have not received any answers from you here to these questions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u99	Once again, Mr Myller and Mr Heinonen will reply, and then we will return to this electoral law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u100	Mr President! I think that Mr Marin is quite right to ask the government how the government intends to implement this social welfare reform in this provincial administration, because it is now a question of how this regional government is implemented and what matters are being dealt with there that has completely stolen this social welfare attention when we have a problem with how we organise social and health services in this country so that they are available to everyone on an equal footing in this country. There are now a model of 18 provinces, 15 social welfare areas, 12 on-call areas, many other areas at the regional level. We now need to know from the government how it will give priority to this war in this province.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u101	Mr President! The Government has stated that social welfare is organised in 15 social welfare areas and that 18 regional and regional government regions are being created in the country, and that this reform will not result in an increase in the overall tax rate, and it has also been publicly reported that there is no regional tax in preparation. I don't understand what's unclear about this. But we still did not get the answer that if the Social Democrats alone were to decide this matter, what would be the model of government? Vice-President Marin has said that if the provincial government does come, he will not object, but is it the general position of the Social Democrats that support for this model will come if it is now moving forward according to these steps, what has been created as the basic penalty for the future of our country, under the leadership of the Finns Party, the Centre Party and the Coalition Party?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u102	Then let us return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u103	Mr President! And let's go back to election law, too. — Today, on Women’s Day, we had a meeting of the Parliament’s Women’s Network. I was given the authority to act as Vice-President of the Women's Network here in Parliament and in connection with it I was going to say a few words. So this election law: This is very democratic and equal to both sexes, but, in spite of that, there is certainly not always equality in our positions of trust, and that is something that cannot be written into the law any more than it is at present, but I hope that, at the time the report is written on this matter, the report will take into account in some way how gender equality will actually be better achieved, that there will be no mere quota women or quota men in certain committee places. And then, how to take forward this role for women is, of course, a matter for us women themselves, above all, that we ourselves value our role, that we dare to take on responsible tasks in these circles and move forward in that way. In other words, I really hope that we women can take on a fair and active role in the workplace and in the places of trust. Women and men often look at things a little differently, it's a wealth. Both are needed in decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u104	Madam President! I believe that this reform of the electoral law is an important and clarifying issue, because it is precisely in the municipal elections in 2012 that there were local ambiguities and confusing situations as to who has acted where, and it is even forbidden candidates or their relatives to act on electoral committees, for example, and it is now clear that it is all right that the candidate or his immediate family will continue to operate on electoral boards, but then it is natural that these assisting tasks will be banned. I believe that there is a similar consistency to that of the government with regard to social reform, where the government is moving ahead with the war, because it is precisely the fact that we have 15 social areas and 18 self-government regions that we are moving ahead with this reform, because we recognise that there may be too many 18 regions. It may be that shoulders are not enough in all those areas, and that is why there is a figure of 15. It remains to be seen whether there is such a constitutional problem as to combine these readings, that this can be achieved, or whether one particular number should be chosen, and whether it is then smaller,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u107	Madam President! Undoubtedly, this debate has not brought much new on these options and others, because those options simply do not seem to come and there are no opinions. But in connection with this electoral law itself and with this reform, I also support the fact that these reforms are being carried out — a good, clarifying issue. All in all, however, I am concerned about our elections. I think Mr Harakka has already pointed out that we have a very low turnout in several elections. We're having an election. There are European elections, municipal elections, parliamentary elections, presidential elections and now the new regional elections are coming along. In particular, the percentage of votes in the European elections is very low and, of course, there is a risk that voting percentages may be low. Therefore, as much as possible of these elections should be conducted at the same time and should also make it as easy as possible to vote. Of course, it is all about attractive candidates, as Mrs Maijala was concerned about how this gender equality will be achieved. But bravely running for office can then also improve this equality. But, overall, what can we do about the turnout? Is the electronic vote our measure of the future or the fact that we bring elections closer to the citizens? To ensure that the advance votes are better off than in the municipal buildings, where we have to go separately, they are close to them on business trips and so on, in connection with the library cars and others, we must certainly work very hard to get the turnout up. I share this concern with Mr Haraka.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u108	Madam President! It is true that there were no answers to this central question of taxation or, in fact, two opposing answers, as can be well read in these minutes, that some believe that the regional tax is excluded and some believe that the regional tax is still in force. This is the tax reform of the century, EUR 10 billion is being transferred from one system to another. What form this taxation will take and who will inherit it is an extremely important issue. If the government does not have a consensus on this, this is extremely regrettable. But to return to this very theme of the elections, as Mr Savola said, it would be extremely important to increase voting turnout. When this was discussed in connection with certain municipal elections, where the voting turnout in Vantaa was below 50, the honesty and humour of Mr Zyskowicz must be appreciated, as I now quoted from memory his response to this general protest of low turnout. I'm sorry if I can't quote the old thing quite verbatim. But he said in style, "I'm sure those places will be filled with less noises." That is, of course, the case. But here I was looking at the electoral legislation in that regard and I apologise if I gave the wrong certificate. However, my intention was good and praiseworthy. The EU Council can take a decision, as it has done in the previous European elections, to postpone the date from the beginning of June, and that margin is two months from the beginning of June. In other words, it could be linked to the third Sunday of April in Finnish electoral law. Therefore, when it comes to the fact that the EU Council can, for a legitimate reason, make this move forward, Finland would have every opportunity, if there were desires, to push forward this step forward. The second option is, of course, to amend this Finnish electoral law by common agreement. It's too bad the minister left. It would have been nice to hear his basic position on the idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u109	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u110	Madam President! These bilateral tax treaties need to be updated, but in a world that is internationalising, there is a need for joint international action to prevent cross-border profits and tax avoidance. The fight against international tax evasion has gained momentum in the European Union. It is today that the Council of Ministers is meeting to adopt the Commission's directive on the automatic mandatory exchange of information by which the tax administration of each EU country receives information on the internal distribution of profits and profits of multinational companies and on intra-group financial transactions. It is commendable that this international legislation is being implemented quickly. It shows the will of all European countries to take better care of the financing base and the tax base for social services. The weak side is that the directive only applies to companies whose turnover exceeds EUR 750 million per year. For example, there is no more detailed information on financial transactions in Caruna under these conditions. In the protest of the Social Democrats, we therefore called for the limit on reporting to be reduced. I hope that Finland will work for it in the EU, that when and if good experiences and practices are achieved with regard to the reporting obligation, the minimum turnover limit will be gradually reduced. This change in time is reflected in the fact that this German agreement has been introduced as a new article to deal with a potentially fraudulent transfer of profits between interest groups. This international aggressive tax planning is a phenomenon that the former government finance minister, Urpilainen, began to address, and his successor, the finance minister, Rinne, continued to work on. The Act on group benefits tax deductions was adopted about three years ago, but the work needs to be continued. The loopholes in that law must be blocked and extended to the Income Tax Act and, above all, to the tax planning of international real estate companies. I was pleased that, in last week's debate, Mr Salmon felt that this tightening was necessary. Now he should have this attitude, this strong European anti-taxism attitude, also known to his own government. After all, many ministers have personal experience in tax planning, so there is expertise. After all, the government brought a bill of amnesty for tax evaders and a code of administrative records that facilitates the concealment of property to the parliament but was forced to withdraw them under pressure. Now would be an excellent opportunity for the government to show that it has not left behind the EU's common will. It is therefore a good thing that Finland is not holding back the vigorous programmes of the OECD and the EU Commission. National legislation also provides an opportunity to demonstrate that the government does not love tax planners but is concerned about the financing of social services and the management of the government deficit. We're waiting for the screens.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u111	Mr President! It is very good that these bilateral tax treaties should be updated. There are many of them in the debate: the agreement with Spain and the old agreement with Portugal, which has received a lot of publicity; it is also something that has been much publicised. Representative Harakka was very scholarly in that he went through this problem. Germany is an extremely central export country for us, and it is very important that these issues have been dealt with in a two-way manner with Germany, even though we are also involved in a common European Union. I share the concern over party boundaries about this so-called aggressive tax fight or aggressive tax avoidance. This is probably a social, pan-European problem that seems to be now well beyond our entire Finnish party field. However, I would like to emphasise the fact that normal business must not, however, be disrupted and normal investment must not be overly disturbed, it must not go into such a wrong kind of passion and resentment, even though difficult economic times exist. Unfortunately, Mr Harakka's learned speech had a few detestable shades, in which they wanted to paint a small amount of people who were active in business and investment. That probably doesn't make sense. But, President, I think that the EU should act here. I am surprised at the fact that we still have tax havens like this in the EU and Europe, such as tax havens, tax havens. Why does the EU regulate the number of wolves, even the number of frogs, cape frogs, but there has been no political will to intervene in this aggressive tax fight? Let us hope that this will progress in Europe in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u112	Mr President! I cannot now agree with Mr Kurvise's interpretations. I only gave you the facts that have been public about tax planning by government ministers. And one of these perhaps most flagrant cases was the establishment of a company specialising in the international tax planning of a real estate company in Belgium, the country of low taxation. And it is precisely this that we agreed with Mr Salmon that is a clear loophole in current taxation, because cross-border cooperation between real estate companies is specifically covered by the Income Tax Act, and it is absolutely essential what I have just said that the government has the opportunity to present these two concrete legislative projects, and in this way also to demonstrate its willingness to intervene in aggressive tax planning, not just in words.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u113	Mr President! I would like to comment on this previous response that clear rules of the game are important. Once we have clear rules of play, we have pan-European rules of play, with the free movement of goods, services and capital and people, it will help not to undermine everything into tax avoidance and the wrong kind of tax fight. The government is committed to reducing aggressive tax avoidance. The government is committed to reducing the shadow economy. And I think it is a good principle, which has been heard from many of the government's ministers, from their mouths, that there should be a tax on profits, that there should be a tax on the added value of where it was born, and that it should not be taxed with interest or other tricks in a country where zero taxation is applied.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u114	The next item is the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u115	Madam President! When we talk about these bilateral agreements, I would like to see us finally reaching a bilateral agreement with Sweden on the taxation of pensioners. For example, during the last period, the Minister of Finance repeatedly asserted that there is no double taxation, but for a pensioner, it does seem to be double taxation if, first, the pension is taxed in Sweden and then the pension coming to Finland is still taxed here. I don't know what it is if it's not double. If we're talking about these group grants, I'd like to make a few adjustments to what happened last season. Indeed, even then, I raised this taxation of group grants as a bill that did not go through at the time, and one of the reasons was that group grants to subsidiaries or parent companies in Finland are the custom of the country and it is acceptable if this subsidiary has an office in Finland. It's not a place of business. It's a place of business. If it were domiciled, then there would be no tax problem, of course. But now it is good that the matter has gone forward on a broad front, and I certainly hope that we will go forward. And so much for taxes that we have a little to fix in this country and a little need to raise those taxes. There is a funny thing about the taxation of dividends — which is funny only for those who have it — that if you own 10% of the company, then dividend income is tax-free. As a result, among other things, Finland’s richest families, their shoots, raise 9 million and 6 million fully tax-free dividends this year, but if you are a small investor, a small owner, you will have to pay 10 and 30 percent of the tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u116	Mr President! Among other things, Mr Kurvinen has stated that the government is committed to taking action against aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance. I'm glad that's the case. I know from my past in the European Parliament that Finland has far from always been completely consistent with being at the forefront of the EU in the form of the EU solutions that are used to block loopholes in this transnational tax evasion. However, I would now like to draw attention to the fact that last Saturday, in Helsingin Sanomat, Timo Vihertelu — who is now the Managing Director of the State Pension Fund but who has previously been the Budget Manager at the Ministry of Finance — is dealing with this theme specifically for pension funds, and he states in this article that "however, Finland's own provisions, such as those on interest and transfer pricing, also offer tax minima which are difficult to consider necessary for our competitiveness". Well, I haven't had time to find out what points the Greenfield means in Finland's own tax laws, but when someone I at least consider competent in this matter says that there are also national issues in which Finland could work better to limit tax evasion, I really hope that the government will take action.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u117	Madam President! First of all, I will take that speech from Mr Hassi. I, too, read the article in Timo Greenfield and drew attention to the very same point. I hope that Dr. Greenfield’s previous job, or was there someone in between, but in any case I hope that the Ministry of Finance also read this passage very carefully from that article. As far as Mr Kurvise's speech is concerned, in which he encouraged the European Union to play a more active role in these tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning issues, it is always appropriate to encourage it, but it must be said that, in recent years, important steps have been taken both within the European Union and within the OECD, both in the field of tax information exchange and in the fight against the shadow economy and tax evasion. At least I myself believe and expect that, when these new provisions, which have been prepared within the EU and the OECD, come into force and apply, it will in many ways improve the current situation, i.e. prevent tax evasion and this very aggressive tax planning. I would also like to point out this case in Portugal, although it is not the agreement with Portugal but with Germany. When we act against the existence of tax havens in the European Union in which companies can place themselves and thus almost completely or even completely avoid paying taxes anywhere, I think it is quite natural that we should also try to do the same for individuals, in that sense Portugal, in this respect, seems to me to be a tax haven for individuals and to act against it is perfectly justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u118	Mr President! Let us make it quite clear now that the Finance Minister, Jutta Urplainen, introduced a government proposal in autumn 2012, which limits the right to deduct interest on international group loans, but because it only applies to business taxation, the centre raised a great deal of noise about excluding real estate investment companies that operate under income tax. This was made a parallel bill and became a lot of publicity. That is precisely why, as Mr Kurvin said, the rules of the game should be clear and the same for everyone, but now, in this tax comparison, Finland is a veritable tax haven for these international real estate finance companies. Billions of euro investments come to Finland because they can be taken away from here without tax consequences, therefore it should be corrected. Now that the centre is the main government party, one would expect it to act according to its word on what it considered to be a major flaw just a few years earlier and bring this property taxation loophole into the parliament, but it has not been seen. That is why there is a sharp contradiction between what has been done and what has been said, especially since you have a minister in your government, who has taken advantage of this very loophole and has himself said publicly that the motive was tax planning. Would this not now be a driving force for you to implement these valuable principles at a practical level? I can promise that it will receive the support of all the parliamentary parties, at least to the extent that I can generally promise this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u119	Mr President! I welcome what Mr Kurvinen said here that the government is committed to, or at least you would like to see a stronger commitment from the government to combat aggressive tax planning, tax avoidance. The Prime Minister, for example. Sipilä has said in the past that he dislikes this kind of tax avoidance, and I agree with that view. I also agree that much could be done at European level, but on the other hand I am also a representative. I agree with Mr Hassi that much could be done here in the country too, and that is exactly what Mr Harakka was talking about, namely the contradiction between these words and actions. I am glad that in your words you speak against tax avoidance, against aggressive tax planning, against tax evasion, but unfortunately, in your actions, these speeches have not been seen. It was only last autumn that we saw a number of proposals in Parliament that would facilitate the informal economy, tax evasion, financial crime. At the time, you were still proposing cuts in the appropriations for combating the shadow economy, you were proposing a code of administrative records that would have allowed ownership to be hidden abroad behind the management registers, and you were proposing an effective law of repentance that would have given the pardon law of the year to those who might have hidden their funds in tax havens. In other words, regrettably, for the time being, your speeches and actions are quite contradictory, and I hope that you will also take up this whole problem of tax evasion, not only by appealing to the European Union but also here at home, and you will make proposals to implement your speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u120	Mr President! It was said here that the European Union should do more to prevent aggressive tax competition and tax avoidance. Now we must remember what the European Union is. It is a Union of 28 Member States in which each Member State can raise important issues for itself. It can be there to support the performances of others and be with the group that takes things forward. During the last government, when Jutta Urpilainen was a finance minister at European Union level, who raised these issues of aggressive tax competition and also this grey surface there and made a lot of progress, there were examples of how things could be handled at European Union level. Now I really would like this government to continue its work, not as if it were hiding behind the EU, but to be active in taking forward what is considered important, and to find the partners who, together, will also be able to bring things to an end.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u121	Madam President! With regard to the government's action, I would like to recall the Government's proposal of 5/2015, i.e. the proposal for a law on the amendment of section 6a of the Act on the taxation of business income. A general anti-abuse provision was proposed here for the regulation of dividend taxation in this law and this applies to intra-Community dividends and applies to arrangements which are not genuine and which seek to make unjustified use of the provisions on the exemption from tax on dividend income. So the government is working on these things. At the same time, it is also worth recalling that we have decided on a strategy to combat the shadow economy in November and that an additional EUR 6.4 million has been allocated to the police in the fight against financial crime. In other words, these measures are being taken all the time and, as Mr Kurvin said in his own good speech, these common rules of play, particularly at EU level and also at global level, are important. They are extremely important because it is the only way to tackle this aggressive tax planning and tax evasion. I am sure we all agree that national measures and national solutions alone will not resolve and will be justified by the fact that such action will continue to take place. I believe and am convinced that the government will be determined to take these steps forward. I would also like to have some thanks from the opposition on these two points, which I mentioned here. You cannot now claim that nothing has been done when it has been done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u122	Mr President! I think this debate and the passionate message from the representatives of the SDP here well describes the state of Finnish society at the moment, why things are so difficult to deal with, why things are so terribly difficult to agree on. It is a strange thing that in the Socialist Party and in the parliamentary group — which I greatly appreciate, which has been building Finland — they received a tremendous amount of intelligence and wisdom in their head over a few months, such as this effective repentance. If I go back a little bit, why did this law, which was then withdrawn from the parliament? It was in many ways an unfortunate bill. I myself am a member of the Constitutional Committee and we have a little time to look at it. It was an unfortunate government proposal, and it was good that the government had the nerve to pull it out. However, this started from the fact that the Section of the Committee on Finance took a position in the spring of 2015 that such a law would be a good thing to do. At that time, at the Ministry of Finance, the heat was kept on by a certain Antti Rinne, Chairman of the Socialist Party, then Minister of Finance. This management register legislation has also been prepared for a long time by the Ministry of Finance during the last parliamentary term. Then there was Jutta Urpilainen, Social Democrat, Finance Minister, then Antti Rinne, Social Democrat, Finance Minister. Of course, I understand that there are new representatives, for example. representatives of Harakka and Marin, and they now have new fresh ideas and fresh ideas. I therefore hope that we can now work together, across government-opposition boundaries, eradicate the black economy and make good investment market legislation. Just as Mr Kärnä said, the government is increasing resources for internal security and police and other authorities to catch financial criminals. We also need transparent and economic legislation here on the investment side — without unnecessary feelings, without resentment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u123	Mr President! For Mr Kurviselle, I remembered as a recreation: the administrative register law has really been on the table in the past, and twice it has been rejected by the socialist finance ministers, first the Minister of Finance of Urp and then the Minister of Finance of Rinte, the Socialist track record on this issue, is quite a step in the same direction. Then I would also like to say that I am pleased that you recognise that the government's proposals were completely classless and bad when they came to Parliament — and the cuts in the budget for combating this grey economy, which were then unanimously rejected by the Legal Committee in its own opinion, as well as this administrative register law and then this law of effective repentance — that they were full wolves. But here they did not fall out of the good of the government, but because the opposition, including the Social Democrats, raised these shortcomings, as well as the media. There was a lot of movement on this side in order for the government to come to its senses and withdraw these motions. Fortunately, this happened in the end, but it was the result of hard work, the result of what the opposition and civil society did. But it is a good thing that you acknowledge that your presentations have been completely classless.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u124	Mr President! I would also like to have this clarification in the Minutes that neither of the ministers, Urplainen or Rinne, agreed to bring this code of administrative records, which was vigorously promoted by the officials of the Ministry of Finance, to Parliament. It was called for by the Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, who signed the Ministry of Finance's view as such and, as is well known, perhaps a little more than that. There was a colorful figure on these numbers, perhaps less honourable in terms of the history of parliamentaryism. As I said here, concrete proposals are to be expected and we are working well on this issue, where we all agree. So, when Mr Salmon said here last week that it was absolutely necessary to have this law that blocks loopholes in real estate investment in Parliament, it is now stated above the Government's opposition front that this is being done, that it is being brought here and brought through quickly so that both the playing field between European states is smooth and that Finland does not take part in this aggressive tax competition in this way just as if its own laziness and lack of interference and, in this way, distorts these markets and, secondly, that all types of companies would be treated fairly here, so that both taxpayers' interests and the interests of business would once again be shared.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u125	Madam President! I should like to say once again that I agree with Mr Lohen, who, as Vice-President of the Group of the European People's Party, is a Member of the European Parliament, whom I very much appreciate, and who plays an important role in our parliamentary group, that this issue should be addressed. Mr Harakka has made quite good arguments here for regulating the taxation of real estate funds. However, I would now like to point out that once again such handicrafts have been held here by the Socialist Group, which has certainly gained this wisdom enormously in the opposition, which was not the case in many areas of employment and economic policy over the last period, that the members of the SDP's Finance Committee also felt that this so-called tax evader's amnesty law should be achieved. I do not know whether these Members are still in Parliament, I have not checked it out, but I hope, Mrs Harakka, that you will educate these members of your group on this matter. It is a good thing that the Social Democratic Finance Ministers have been such a topcrat, and I would now like to thank the Minister for Finance, Alexander Stubb, for withdrawing this management register legislation. Let us now thank Stubb, he too has this famous track record now something of this issue. Let's work together to get this wrong kind of tax evasion under control.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u126	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u127	Madam President! The proposal proposes a new law on the conformity of explosives. In particular, the aim of this proposal is to propose to the new law the provisions necessary to preserve the provisions of the new Civil Explosives Directive as part of national legislation. Some of the requirements of the Directive are to be laid down by a Government decree adopted on the basis of the law. The adoption of a new law has been primarily based on a change in the European Union and the national regulatory environment, since product legislation is undergoing a comprehensive reform and this reform is estimated to have a wide-ranging impact on product safety and market surveillance legislation. It is also believed that the adoption of a new separate law on explosives will clarify the regulation of explosives. The government's proposal is, in a way, mandatory, and the implementation of the new directive does not imply significant changes in substance, but rather a change in the legislative technique. However, this proposal contains much more extensive provisions at the level of the law, which is also supported by the requirements of the current Constitution. I think this is going in the right direction, because the law is always stronger and more binding than the regulations. The aim of the proposal is to propose to the new law the provisions necessary for the implementation of the new Civil Explosives Directive. However, the proposal is largely purely legislative and does not contain any significant changes to the technical or safety requirements for explosives. The amendment to the Chemicals Safety Act contributes to the dismantling of standards and the reduction of permits, and that is the aim of the Government Programme. Furthermore, the proposed regulation will not entail any significant changes to the current functioning of public authorities and the new law will have no significant impact on the activities of economic operators already active in the sector. In this respect, too, it is mainly a legislative technical reform which only sets out a few clarifications to the requirements. The amendment to the Chemical Safety Act, which is included in the proposal, facilitates the import of dangerous chemical containers from abroad, as a separate permit from the Safety and Chemicals Agency, Tukes, would no longer be required. The amendment to the Chemical Safety Act would repeal the authorisation procedure for mutual recognition of tanks. For those people who are not normally involved with explosives, the most important thing is to identify them. Explosives should not be touched unless they are identified and safely handled. For the police and the Defence Forces, the work of clearing explosives is reasonably common-day work. However, they too cannot deal with them unless they have received appropriate training. Civil explosives shall be marked with the CE marking in accordance with Article 10 of this proposal. The affixing of the CE marking to an explosive shall indicate, inter alia, the conformity of the explosive. This marking shall be affixed visibly, legibly and indelibly. Where it is not possible or justified to affix the marking to an explosive, it shall be affixed to the packaging of the explosive and to the accompanying documents. Every year, wartime explosives found in the attics and elsewhere are still being brought to police stations, which should by no means even be touched. They are the property of the Defence Forces, and they will retrieve them safely when they are informed. The Defence Forces are also providing police assistance every year to identify more than 350 explosives. Some of them have been brought in the back seat of the car to the police station table — under the name 'Experience Is'. And at this point, even though it was such explosive things, very happy Women's Day!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u128	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Kulmala, for your excellent presentation. I agree that the government's proposal is very good, but I hope, in committee, that we will consider the fact that our current national regulation on explosives has worked very well. And now we have to look carefully at the fact that the EU directive is not bringing standards and regulations that affect businesses in Finland, for example, because we have a lot of construction companies that have to invest, use explosives, and it cannot be appropriate to set those safety standards and criteria so high that then this normal, good business activity and the conditions for carrying it out are jeopardised. However, whenever we talk about explosives, whenever we talk about weapons and ammunition, surely we all think that safety must always be given priority.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u129	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u130	Mr President! This is a question of safety and technical issues, but I would like to raise the issue of lifts, that in this situation where we live — export does not drag, our economy is in recession, not for ten years, but almost ten years have soon been in recession — I think it is very important that we consider our own elevator technology, the legislation on lift safety, that we make a certain laboratory for a major Finnish company, Kone Oyj, which is currently building huge lifts in urban Asia. There we have opportunities in elevator technology and everything else. Let us now consider these solutions in committee and in other parliamentary deliberations so that we do not hinder this export activity to Asian emerging economies and globally to other places of export.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u131	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 1/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u132	Madam President! As vice-chairman of the committee, I shall briefly present the motion. This draft law proposes to amend the Temporary Finance Act on Sustainable Forestry, the Law on the Prevention of Forest Damage and the Law on Game Damage. This is a clear and clear law on savings in Finnish. Although it is a savings law, the Committee considers it important that the State aid available should be targeted so that the objectives of the aid scheme can be largely achieved, even if the scope of the action is to be reduced in some respects. The support system should also continue to encourage landowners and forest owners to engage in active and timely forest management. When dealing with this issue, the committee drew attention to the preservation of the good health of forests and thus felt it necessary to include in the law an obligation to combat rootstocking in the context of felling. The obligation to reject root canopy remains with the forest-cutter. With regard to young forests, the Committee considers it necessary that the aid should be targeted more closely at the management of high density seedlings and young breeding forests whose thinnings are not commercially viable. Let's talk about the so-called deforestation. With regard to fertilisation, the Committee welcomes the fact that aid is limited to the most important fertiliser sites in order to correct the nutrient imbalance in forests. Finally, the committee considers it absolutely necessary to simplify the management of the aid scheme and to streamline administrative procedures more effectively. Madam President! The committee considers this proposal necessary and appropriate. The committee is in favour of adopting the draft law. Five amendments were tabled by the committee and one objection has been raised. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u133	Madam President! Just as the vice-president of the committee said, this is a savings law. The last acts of the last parliament were to be enacted by the new Kemera law. It was considered to be quite successful, saving the most important areas of treatment. Of course, I understand the aim of saving, and the Swedish Parliament Group also supports the government's savings targets, although they hurt. Now we are saving EUR 15 million a year, and this bill contains one evil drain: EUR 7 million is being saved specifically for the fight against root rot. It is a very important measure and it has worked well. The PEFC certification system requires the root head to be rejected, and this has also happened, and state aid has been around EUR 100 per hectare per year. Well, now we see that there has already been a market disturbance, i.e. when the forest owner puts on sale or asks for an offer for a suitable summer dress, forest companies want to pass the costs on to the forest owner according to this new bill, and the result is that good summer skirts will be transferred to the wintertime when this requirement is not in force. It is possible to save the same EUR 15 million per year and to maintain the fight against root mills, if a small reduction in small-wood harvesting aid from EUR 200 per hectare to about EUR 170 per hectare is reduced by the same amount, for example, from EUR 100 to EUR 70. That is what the Swedish parliamentary group is protesting about, and we will probably be voting on it tomorrow. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u134	Mr President! As the vice-chairman of the committee, Mr Hongisto, said, this is a savings law, and we Social Democrats will support this government's proposal, that is, this EUR 15 million saving. As the vice-president of the committee, Mr Hongisto, also said, this support is now targeted at the management of an unprofitable trout and a young forest, and that is a good allocation. To this final point, we had a wide-ranging and long-standing debate on this sustainable forestry development law in general. This is the fifth time in my parliamentary term that this is laid down, and every time since 1999, we have been discussing where aid will be allocated and whether this is necessary. Now this system is so bureaucratic that most of this money goes into bureaucracy. In time, Sweden gave up supporting sustainable forestry completely, and currently in Sweden harvesting costs are lower than in Finland. This leads to the conclusion that this State aid will be transferred to these companies which will correct it. They also calculate this aid to what it costs. When you look at this matter again, when I asked this question in the expert consultation that, after this period, should this support be continued, the experts there widely said that now, after this period, it would be worth considering how this aid would be targeted. Many suggested that this money should be allocated to these joint projects, such as forestry cars, so that we could create a proper network to support this growing bioeconomy. We do not support the objection and we are in favour of the government's proposal. We wanted this matter to be clarified, but we were informed that Mr Tiilikainen was working on it at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u135	Madam President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Temporary Finance Act on Sustainable Forestry, the Law on the Prevention of Forest Damages and the Game Damage Act. The Temporary Financing Act for Sustainable Forestry would be amended to implement savings under the Government Programme, so the change needs to be understood. It is clear that the available State aid must be targeted in such a way that the objectives of the aid scheme can be achieved even in part, even if the scope of the measure has to be reduced in some respects. The support system should continue to encourage landowners to actively and timely forest management, thereby increasing the growth and yield of their forests. In addition, as far as possible, the aim is to simplify administrative procedures and save administrative resources and to facilitate the application of aid. These things sound even better and more desirable. The objective of the amendment to the Law on the prevention of forest damage is to maintain good forest health and to combat forest damage. In this proposal, support for the fight against root rot would be abandoned and in the future it would be mandatory to combat root rot. This is also not a bad thing if this is understood correctly. However, it is well known that the root causes losses to landowners of almost EUR 50 million per year. It is therefore important for the forest owner to continue to work to combat root rot, and I do not believe that this work will be generally neglected in the future. The government's proposal suggests that the batterer of the forest must take care of the fight against root rot. About 80% of private forest sales are made in the form of vertical sales. In this case, the forest owner gives the right to logging to the buyer of the tree. As a general rule, therefore, the timber-buying industry is obliged to take care of the fight against root mills. In practice, the fight is mainly done by forest machinery entrepreneurs, and so far it has been very successful.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u136	Madam President! We in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry consider it a good thing and necessary that, among other things, support for the management of young forests should be more focused on the management of high density seedlings and young breeding forests whose thinnings are not commercially viable. It has also been stated in the explanatory memorandum that the intention is not to reduce the level of support for forestry road projects in Northern Finland. This is an excellent thing because it is a good way to get the wood out of the forests. In the presentation, the support for health fertilisation is limited to ash fertilizers in drained peatlands and fertilizers in soils with boron deficiency. The Committee welcomes the limitation of support to the most important fertiliser sites for the correction of nutrient imbalances in forests. As the energy use of wood increases, large amounts of ash are formed. The use of ash as fertiliser in drained peatlands contributes to nutrient recycling. The Committee considers it important to simplify the management of the support system, to streamline procedures and to make more efficient use of forest resource information and electronic service systems. The forest owner must be able to submit all notifications relating to the support scheme electronically. The conditions for support must be as limited as possible and the decisions must be clear. Due to EU demand, the Kemera support process has become more complex and needs to be simplified. It is also worth noting that since the early 1990s legislation has obliged timber owners to remove fresh coniferous timber from forests and felling sites. This measure aims to keep the populations of the worst pests at a low level. The fight against root rot can therefore be seen as a measure similar to the removal of timber. The prevention of fungal diseases has not been regulated by law in the past. The spread of root rot has only been addressed at the level of the law since 2014, when stock storage in forests began to be restricted due to the risk of deforestation, which is the root rot. The fight against root rot is already taking place in the context of fellings, so there are procedures and equipment for doing so. Madam President! This reform responds partly to the problem raised in the rural policy programme for Finns. I quote from the programme here: "The position of domestic energy needs to be improved. Decentralised small energy provides work and ensures service and crisis preparedness. The use of forest energy is an important national resource and must be promoted. The adequacy of Kemera subsidies must be safeguarded and bureaucracy reduced. Too much of Kemera drowns in counselors and papermen. The self-employed forest owner is excluded from the system. Forest energy must be sourced sustainably. Supported collection of energy wood and stocks must not jeopardise the maintenance of wood and forest nature or the ability of self-employed forest owners to hack and process energy wood themselves. Forest energy plants should be able to compete equally for energy wood. Decentralised electricity generation made possible by combined plants is very much to be welcomed, both in terms of employment, the environment and crisis preparedness. Supported energy use of imported wood shall not cause market disturbances. In addition to forest energy, barriers to the energy use of peat, straw, biogas and waste must be removed. The conditions for aid for energy investment must be unambiguous and the same for all and sufficiently permanent. The previous governments have almost completely forgotten the use of domestic energy as one of the means of balancing the central government deficit." Madam President! Do you mind if I take a little more time? [Second Vice-President PaulaRisikko : Please. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u139	Mr President! Just over a year ago, we had a hard debate about this financial law on sustainable forestry in Kemera and how to start working with it. I am very pleased that that law was then built. That was quite good at the time, and it was also well mentioned in this report that the support system should continue to encourage landowners to maintain active and timely forest management and thus increase forest growth. The Kemera Act is particularly important for us Finns in the Nordic region, and the importance of forest is vital in our region: it provides bread, jobs and activities for a very large number of people. But in order to make this forestry profitable, we need this sustainable forestry funding law. That is why I hope that — even during the next parliamentary term, as has been said before, the existence and importance of this law — the existence of this law will not be pushed down, but that this law really is needed. This law has now required austerity measures. Saving laws are a very difficult issue for all of us, because it was already very difficult for us to save on certain points over a year ago when we were preparing this law. They have also had to make more savings. These targets have been well constructed, and I am pleased that in this legislative proposal before us, the issue of ash-fertilisation in peatlands has been strongly raised. So this is an environmentally friendly, sustainable pattern and form of how we can develop our forestry. But then I go to our biggest problem in Lapland on the forestry side. This is the fact that during the last parliamentary term there was no support for the reform of under-productive forests. Support for the regeneration of under-productive forests is a prerequisite for our region. For the next few years we will be able to build and take forward these things through the decisions taken during the previous law, but within two years we will have to rebuild this system of support for the regeneration of under-productive forests. This is a very serious proposal, a demand and a hope that we will be able to produce rational wood in our region, because there are still a huge number of under-productive forests in our region that would be available with sensible logging and measures to make profitable, productive areas. Then why did it fall out of this law just over a year ago? It was left out because it was supposed to be in a hurry and it was explained that the de minimis regulations were supposed to prevent such support. It has now been confirmed several times and has already been mentioned at the end of the drafting of the law that these de minimis provisions do not prevent this aid from being granted, but they said that it came so late that it was no longer possible to change the law. But the report of the time, which was from the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry and was approved by Parliament, came to the conclusion that this issue of the regeneration of under-productive forests will then be taken up again later. Let's remember what's in there. Let's keep that in mind, let's take it up again in just over a year. The second thing about this law is that there were also tough discussions about making forest roads, whether they were supported at all. I am very pleased that we managed to keep it in this law and that we will continue to be able to use our forests sensibly, especially in the north. This law, which is now under discussion, has led to lower levels of support, but I am grateful that the level of support for forest road projects in Northern Finland is not reduced. So, with these provisions forward, and nothing more than the next draft law on sustainable forestry financing, pending this, I hope that we will be able to make it. In Lapland, too, to take these things forward, and at the same time I hope that red tape can actually be dismantled. Thank you for the fact that these applications can now be submitted electronically, but we also need to develop electronic forms or other patterns on the control side, which would bring these administrative costs down to a very absurd level.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u140	Madam President! Just as Mrs Wallin said, this is a very bureaucratic law, or there is a very bureaucratic system. Part of the reason for this is, of course, the requirements of the EU state aid system, which now, for example, make it necessary to apply and also to have a positive decision on aid before any measures can be taken. And this has greatly increased bureaucracy. Representative Wallin also raised the issue and compared the costs of Finnish forestry with the costs of Swedish forestry. And of course there are differences, but I do not think the differences are due to the Kemera Act, they are due to the structure of forest owners. In Sweden, for example, forest companies own a very large proportion of forests. There is, for example, Metsähallitus within Finland, whose costs cannot be compared directly with those of small private forest owners. The importance of this Kemera law can also be illustrated by the fact that the Finnish forest road network is quite different from Sweden, for example, where this state aid has not worked in recent years. I agree that it may be possible to find a better solution, whether it is a tax relief which, for example, is not hindered in the same way by EU state aid rules, which we support, or what it might be, but it is now in the hands of the Minister. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u141	Mr President! Mr Nylund's speech was a good one and told us what the situation is. I would just like to say to Mrs Maijala that she defended the current situation so strongly that we in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry had a broad debate on the need for changes. This system cannot go beyond the next four years, after 2020. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry will organise its own seminar. Then it was also known that Minister Tiilikainen has set up a task force with a wide range of forest experts, owners and forest officials to find out how this current law could be replaced, because this is too bureaucratic and too much of this money goes to running its bureaucracy. And much more sensible, as Mr Nylund said, would be to use means that do not increase bureaucracy but reduce bureaucracy. And in addition to this, more could be directed to these forest cars, which Mrs Maijala also referred to and rejoiced that: In Lapland they will remain at the current level, because this bioeconomy, which we have in the future economy, needs good transport logistics, and then these forest roads will be an essential part of that logistics. But this is what is going on, and I believe that who in this Parliament is going to be 2020, that is to say the next Parliament, will make changes, this is not going to happen. This is indeed the fifth time I have been dealing with this, and it has always been the same debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u142	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Nylund, for this speech. In comparison with the situation in Sweden, it is true that there are certain things and operating models in Sweden, which we have to take from there, for example, those forest holdings of the heirs, which means that in Sweden there has been a great deal of attention paid to the fact that forest holdings are larger and that they cannot be broken down, as we do here in Finland. In other words, when we consider how we could best develop Finland's forestry, I think one of the biggest things would be how we could focus on the fact that forest farms are really productive entities. And one essential point is that attention is paid to the ownership of the heirs. The problem at the moment is that if one of the heirs wants to ban the treatment of the forest, then it will not be dealt with in any way during its entire existence, and our forests will certainly not be able to bear it. In Sweden, these property issues of the heirs are to be clarified within five years, and there is also a ban on fragmentation there, so that these things should not be put into small pieces in the same way as in Finland. And then to Mrs Wallin: I certainly agree with the need for changes, but the current situation is definitely better than the fact that we do not have these things at all. And the dismantling of bureaucracy: I am sure we will all agree on that. But perhaps during this parliamentary term we can at least do something about this red tape.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u143	The 15th item in the order of business is presented in part to the only, partly to the second reading. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the UaVM 1/2016 vp, it will be decided at the sole reading of the agreements and then at the second reading of the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u144	A 16th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u145	Madam President! I have already spoken more broadly about this government proposal at first reading. However, this is particularly the case on women's day, as legislators, we should promote decisions that promote gender equality. In practice, however, this government proposal weakens the position of women in particular, since mothers have 51 days of parental leave and fathers have 102 days of parental leave. On the other hand, the proposal will reduce the holiday pay of mothers in particular, thereby further increasing the unjustified pay gap between women and men. I would also point out that the Ombudsman for Gender Equality has stated that the proposal places mothers in particular at a disadvantage compared to the law in force. I therefore believe that the proposal is discriminatory from the point of view of gender equality. On the other hand, the government has also underestimated the constitutional problems of the proposal. On the other hand, the proposed changes also increase administrative burdens in many ways. I think it would have been clearer to include all the changes to the annual holiday law in the overall reform of the law promised by the government. I therefore propose that the legislative proposals be rejected in accordance with objection 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u146	Madam President! This is indeed a particularly bad gift for young women from the government, because this proposal has a very negative impact on equality. This will further increase the threshold for the recruitment of young women who may be on maternity leave. Indeed, it must be said that it is quite a mockery of fate that then, on women's day, this second reading of this bill came to Parliament. This proposal cuts the accumulation of annual leave in an unequal way, which has also been mentioned in the committee's report and in the accompanying opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Therefore, maternity, paternity and parental leave, this annual leave, will continue to accumulate for a maximum period of six months, unless otherwise agreed in the collective agreement. This proposal is particularly difficult for single mothers because they cannot share parental leave with their father and thus, by their own choice, influence this accumulation of annual leave. Again, in this drafting of the law, we have forgotten the child's point of view. It also seems strange that these impact assessments have not been sought in advance, but it is then stated that once this law has been adopted, then the impact of the law will be investigated by the end of 2018. Of course, it would seem reasonable to try to outline these in advance. This amendment of the law increases the cost of hiring an employee for employers, and it also puts employers in a different position on the basis of the collective agreement they have to comply with. However, if the collective agreement determines that leave is to be collected throughout that period of maternity, paternity and parental leave, the compensation will only be paid for a period of six months. In that sense, too, it is regrettable that, in this way, the business sector, especially SMEs, is being disciplined, even though this government has tried very hard to profile itself as pro-entrepreneurship. But here we see this fact. In the municipal sector, these annual compensation costs under the Health Insurance Act would then be reduced by approximately EUR 10 million per year. As a result, Madam President, I propose that the second and third legislative proposals be rejected, as raised in protest 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u147	Madam Speaker! I support the proposals made by Mrs Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u148	Mr President! In this government proposal, the annual leave law is proposed to be amended, inter alia, so that when an employee becomes incapacitated as a result of illness or accident during his or her annual leave, the first six days of incapacity for work would not qualify for the transfer of holidays, but then the worker who has earned at least four weeks of annual leave would be entitled to an annual leave of at least four weeks. The aim of this change is to reduce absenteeism and, at the same time, to reduce the impact of the risk of illness on the employer. Of course, the reform is somewhat back to the situation a few years ago, and I think it is justified in this regard, especially in this difficult employment situation. Mr President! Secondly, in the context of the amendment of the annual holiday law, I would like to highlight the different way in which holiday days are calculated between the private and public sectors. In the private sector, daily and therefore holiday days are also counted as Saturday, as defined in the annual holiday law. As a result, the holiday week for the private sector is six days. On the other hand, municipal and state employment and collective agreements define the length of a holiday week as five days, which, of course, in itself is more in line with the current practice of working life, but in terms of social justice, it would be better if holiday days were calculated in accordance with the same principles in all professions, and I would therefore like the government to look for a solution to this issue. In my opinion, five weeks is the appropriate length of annual leave, so the logical thing would be that Saturdays in the annual holiday law would no longer be counted as working days and, at the same time, the total number of holidays would be changed from 30 to 25.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u149	Madam President! It is indeed regrettable that today, on women's day, when the aim would be to raise women's dignity and the various issues relating to women, the government will present a proposal for this second reading which will clearly undermine the position of women and the role of single parents. This bill weakens the position of families with children, placing women and, above all, single-parent families and women in a weaker situation and position. The Government proposes to weaken the annual leave during maternity, paternity and parental leave in a way that is unequally distributed between women and men. The annual holiday surveys of maternity, paternity and parental leave are also deteriorating. This puts the parents of young children at a disadvantage from the point of view of reconciling work and family. Rather, the aim should be to improve reconciliation between work and family, rather than vice versa, as the government is now doing in this proposal. In particular, the government also disciplines single-parent families who do not have the opportunity to share child care leave with another guardian. This weakens the position of single parents. In particular, the proposal reduces the leave pay and holiday allowance for mothers and thus further increases the unjustified pay gap between women and men. As has been said here, the Ombudsman for Gender Equality believes that the proposal puts mothers at a disadvantage compared to the law in force. This applies in particular to annual leave from parental leave. The Equal Opportunities Ombudsman is therefore not in favour of this bill. Madam President! The weakening of the annual parental leave survey is also very problematic from the point of view of Kela. Kela's opinion states that implementation is difficult because it is difficult for Kela to determine when a person is free in accordance with the Employment Contracts Act. These clarifications become extra work for the employer and Kela officials. Another concern is that Kela or the employer does not have a software to collect the necessary information. Madam President! The aim of the Government and Parliament is to reduce bureaucracy and standards and to rationalise existing practices. Now, however, the government is acting in a different direction. Mr President! The government's proposal increases the administrative burden on the employer and thus increases bureaucracy and standards. It increases visits to doctors even in situations where the illness does not require it directly, because at the beginning of the holiday you cannot know whether you will have six days of sickness on holiday. The current practice in the field of social and health care services is quite the opposite of what the government now requires. Mr President! For these reasons, I support Mr Nurminen's motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u150	Mr President! I believe that there has already been a vote of support, but I am in favour of Mrs Nurminen's motion to reject legislative proposals in accordance with protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u151	Mr President! Today it is not easy to be the bearer of responsibility, the representative of the government party. Today we have to make a lot of savings laws. As you can see, representatives of the opposition, you are offered the opportunity to criticise our actions on a platter in every single case. We have had to make cuts in the entire social sector. We have endeavoured to achieve this as evenly as possible so that we can survive tomorrow. The most important, the brightest idea of our representatives of the government party — although here too these cuts are evilly targeted at many, even families with children, and even those with low incomes and everything else — is that we bear responsibility for our children. We do not want to pass on more debt to our children, which is already moving on the basis of previous parliamentary periods, when we have lived too loosely, too loosely distributed money everywhere and there is not enough responsibility. Now we just have to be tough. This isn't easy. It would not be any easier for you either if you were in the government today to deal with these matters. For me personally... For example, Kemera, the financing law on sustainable forestry, which was just under discussion, also experienced very drastic cuts. There seem to be not many things left to do that would not have been the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u154	Mr President! It cannot be the government's aim that all services and services should be given equal treatment, but rather that we should rationalise the activities, that we create better well-being for people, that we strengthen employment and that we treat people equally and equally in the legislation. And now this legislation, which we are dealing with at the moment, does not in any way meet these objectives, which I have just listed here. And that is why I see, for example, the strengthening of employment and the reconciliation of working life and family life as one of the most important objectives pursued by the government and the whole of Parliament, but this legislative proposal does exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u155	Mr President! I myself also drew the same attention to the fact that this savings law, for example, is not fair from the point of view of equality and equality between people, because this is discrimination on the basis of sex, because it affects women more than men. If the government makes such savings laws, I think it is quite fair to assume that these effects have also been assessed and considered. On the other hand, this is also bad legislative work, because it was already examined in the context of the adoption of the current law, but it proved to be administratively burdensome at the time. It was abandoned last season, so I do not fully sign these arguments, as the representative has pointed out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u156	Mr President! I understand very much what you have said, but now that we have set out to build this whole in line with the Government Programme, it is important for us to achieve new jobs, to bring this situation forward in our society, and that is why I really hope that sensible results will be achieved in matters such as the Social Pact. So, hopefully, our goal will be to improve the financial situation of families with children as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u157	The 18th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u158	Mr President! First of all, I would like to suggest that the legislative proposals in this government proposal are rejected. We voted on this point, namely the amendment of the Land Use and Building Law last Friday. There were two objections to this draft law in the committee's report to the fact that cases involving a new building in a coastal area which does not have a valid beach plan or a formula with a significant protection effect would still have to be resolved, i.e. these deviations would not have been passed on to the municipalities. There are many reasons for this, and the main argument is that the complaints which Ely has made have been successful, i.e. that they have been followed up. On the other hand, municipal complaints and positive municipal decisions have not been successful. So here we see that there are a lot of problems that it would still be good to look at through a larger whole of municipalities, and then these animals would be good at this. But the problem is, of course, that when this future regional reform is under way, we do not know what will happen to these elys. According to the government's new proposals, they should be consulting authorities, but there is no proposal for this. On the other hand, representatives of the government parties also said that it is good that the ely has the right to appeal. But what is this future ely? This is also one of the reasons for this rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u159	Mr President! I support Mr Myller's motion for rejection. This issue was dealt with quite extensively last week in plenary and the argument for why this proposal should be rejected came up very well in last week's debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u160	Mr President! As has already been widely discussed last week, this proposal as a whole will de-bureaucratise a great deal of bureaucracy, which is the aim of the government programme. This is also important for decisions to be made close to people, i.e. in municipalities. Indeed, the right of appeal will remain. Mr Myller then expressed his concern about where the street issues are now, when the Elys are given the right to appeal, whether they come to the provincial administration. It is notable that, at the moment, when considering and building up the regional government reform in this sector, there has been a debate on the extent to which these activities will then be transferred to the central government. At the moment, it seems very likely that it will be a government organisation which will probably have to deal with these complaints. Surely it also makes sense to do so in a complaint package in such a way that one’s own affairs are not controlled. With this pattern, we are still sticking with the government's proposal, which is, in our opinion, a good one.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u161	Mr President! I am very much in line with what Mrs Maijala said in her previous speech. As has certainly become widely apparent in this part-session and in any other public debate, it is difficult economic times and it is not easy to put Finland in shape and rise. Fortunately, however, positive decisions can also be made, freedoms and opportunities can be given to local actors in the region, and that is what this is all about. It is also a question of deregulation of unnecessary regulation, of streamlining existing regulations, that is to say, these bureaucracy and standards. This is perhaps the most important legislative proposal so far, which has come under discussion in relation to these bureaucratic procedures. As has been pointed out in this debate, there are still legal guarantees, there is no need for these amendments to this law in the protest, and that is why I support the position of the majority of the committee, and I believe that this law will be taken forward as such and given the freedom to act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u162	Mr President! I agree that where there is too much bureaucracy, it should be dismantled. But let us not confuse matters such as the legal protection of people, equality, the realisation of civil rights with the dismantling of red tape. It has now been clearly demonstrated and demonstrated that far from all municipalities either have resources, know-how or that, for some other reason, the decisions taken by the municipalities have gone wrong in court. It is therefore a good thing, especially until we know what the way forward will be in the future, to avoid such major changes in this issue. The fact that representatives here are saying that the way of complaint will be through the state administration is certainly one opinion here, and that was in the Tarast proposal. But then there are strong opinions that it is going to be in the provincial administration, and then it's okay to ask if it's too close to these "pukki as a guard of the cabbage country" style.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u163	Mr President! It was interesting to hear Mr Kurvisen say that this government proposal is the most important legislative proposal so far in the form of deregulation of standards and bureaucracy. I, too, have suspected that these famous standards and red tape are disproportionate to environmental legislation and the mechanisms for monitoring compliance with environmental legislation in Finland. It is about the quality, safety, health and comfort of our environment. I have already raised these issues in the debate last week, but briefly because of this review, the decisions taken by the municipalities on the beaches have been the worst in court for all types of decisions relating to land use — the beach plan decisions, when they have been appealed against, have been the worst in court for all types of plans. When the municipalities have taken positive decisions on derogations, in so far as complaints have been lodged, two thirds of the complaints have gone through the courts. When complaints have been made about the decisions of the Ely Centres to grant derogations, only 9% of complaints have gone through. I find it very suspicious that it is precisely in the decision-making cases of the kind of municipalities where municipalities have had the greatest tendency to ignore the law, that the municipalities' right of exception will be increased. Just as Mrs Myller said, it is not in any way certain that we will even have regional environmental management of the state in the future. I have heard from many of Mr Kurvise's fellow parties in this House that in future we will not have a regional environmental administration of the state, but that the tasks will be transferred to the provinces. I find this development combined with this extension of the municipalities' powers of derogation very worrying.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u164	Mr President! In Finland, decisions must be made by law everywhere, in municipalities and everywhere else. Most of the officials in our municipalities certainly — almost everyone — are trying to comply as much as possible with the law. If there is doubt that municipalities do not have enough knowledge to deal with a matter, then even today, especially small municipalities are cooperating between municipalities. Our municipality has many things in common with neighbouring municipalities, including building supervision and things like this. I have no doubt that these are being done properly and with know-how, as far as possible we are trying to do these things. The second point is the number of complaints. It is true that 65% of the complaints made by the Ely have gone through. But how many have been complained of? Most have gone through as such because they have been good, permanent, lasting decisions. So now we have to remember that Ely has paid attention only to these matters, where there has been a clear violation of the laws, where there has been a mistake. In other words, it really cannot be said that 65% of the decisions have gone wrong since then; yes, good decisions have been taken in the municipalities. The second point is that the most red tape has been dismantled from the environmental sector, that is true. The work of Mr Tiilikainen, the Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, in our various fields of government, has been the best way to get the red tape out of his administration. But it really does not mean that it is being treated worse than others, but, for example, when the amendment to the Nature Conservation Act has just been adopted and it includes this labelling of protected areas, it has happened that the environmental centres now do not have to spend half their resources on the labelling of enclaved territories, but can concentrate on those things that actually have results and meaning. In other words, these austerity measures really do lead to results.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u165	Mr President! It is an ancient - Nordic saying that the law must build the country, and it tells us that all the authorities — including even the elected representatives even in the municipalities — are forced to comply with the law in our legislation. If they violate the law, then they are threatened with liability, they are threatened with criminal proceedings. The municipalities, when they will hopefully grant these derogations in the future, will not be able to do what they want, and the provinces will not be able to do so when, in due course, the legislation is decided upon. Just as this debate has brought out very well, the environmental measures of the municipalities, the officials there and the institutions there are making hundreds or, I would venture to say, thousands of decisions all the time. Most of them will not be complained of. It may well be that the decisions which have been appealed against may have been the subject of complaints, but it is a question of legislating. Environmental legislation, as Mr Hassi, for example, well knows, has flexible standards, and every now and then, as Mr Hassi knows, it is normal to apply for these precedents. I would now like to point out, Mr President, that when I looked at this constitution of ours, there is Article 21. guarantee legal certainty: each person has the right to have his or her case dealt with properly without undue delay by law before the competent court or other authority and to have his or her own rights and obligations examined by such judicial body. This right will not be interfered with in any way with this amendment to the Land Use and Building Law. Opportunity for appeal, legal certainty will continue to be provided. It's not that kind of drama. Let's just put it on the road without any worries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u166	Mr President! To the question of these completed complaints. I would trust that the municipalities will be able to develop and learn these things, and I would also like to see no lack of confidence in the role of municipal politicians in the direction of the municipalities or their elected representatives. In fact, I find that rather strange. I would also add that the abolition of standards is also planned with regard to the right of appeal, so that I might perhaps be able to get rid of such unnecessary complaints in the future. I therefore encourage the government to move forward along this path.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u167	Mr President! In fact, Mr Mäkelä pointed out what I thought to point out that the government is also planning to reduce the rights of appeal. And, as a sum of these things, that the right of exception for municipalities is increased and the right of appeal is reduced, unfortunately, will now mean that the possibility of annulment of unlawful decisions, when they are taken, will be reduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u168	Mr President! When the name was mentioned, I commented. In other words, the unlawful is such a decision as the right to state that it is unlawful cannot be found unlawful in advance, and then, if it is complained, the court determines whether it is illegal or not. As far as the right of appeal is concerned, the problem is not the right of appeal, but the time for dealing with the complaint, the fact that those decisions are prolonged because of the handling of the complaint and the duration of the right. On the other hand, however, the right of appeal does not necessarily have to concern only one’s own case. So such a general complaint about other, neighborly property is questionable as to whether such a thing is even necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u169	Mr President! Mr Hassi made a good point of reducing the right of appeal, and this is a very important and big issue. In this way, we can focus on the fact that the courts can focus on the work that is actually theirs and on dealing with important matters. Of course, even a small thing is important for some, but it is important that even a small thing can be dealt with. As long as it is rationalized that no complaints are made about unnecessary matters, we can focus on the fact that complaints actually matter. In my opinion, this is a very sensible way of directing the judicial system in the right way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u170	Mr President! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has dealt with these issues relating to the limitation of the right to appeal, and it has become very clear, for example, in the opinion of the Supreme Administrative Court, that if an entity makes a decision which is illegal in substance and no one complains about it, then it will remain in force. The limitation of the right of appeal increases the possibility that unlawful decisions will also remain in force. And now that Mr Mäkelä has mentioned the bullying neighbours, it is ironic that one option, which is now being clarified, is that in the future the right of appeal would not be open to all local residents, as is the case now, but, in practice, to those concerned. So, if we now believe that it is the neighbors who are making trouble, then why do we think about limiting the right of appeal to the effect that it is only the neighbours who should be allowed to complain?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-08-ps-20.u171	Mr President! To make it clear to Mr Hassi that I am talking specifically about general complaints, about complaints by villagemen about other matters. If that's the word next door, it wasn't necessarily the point or the point.
