ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Finance Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u2	Madam President! The Government's proposal for a customs law and some related laws. — I regret in advance that, as the Committee on Economic Policy continues at 2.30 p.m., I cannot remain in the debate, but I am presenting this law as a whole. — In other words, the proposal proposes to introduce a new customs law which would replace the current Customs Act. The proposed law would introduce additional national provisions to the European Union Customs Code Regulation. The aim of this reform of the Customs Code has been to simplify legislation, facilitate business activities and at the same time improve customs controls. This is therefore one major deregulation project in the Ministry of Finance’s field of activity. A key instrument is the transition to mandatory electronic customs declarations through the transition period by the end of 2020, with the aim of reducing costs for businesses and the risks to society. The new Customs Act includes, inter alia, the following changes: 1) Provisions on the offsetting of claims are proposed in the Customs Act. To date, customs has provided receipts under civil law regulation. 2) A specific regulation on the confidentiality of information relating to extensive customs activities would be abandoned. The law on publicity and the provisions of EU customs legislation would therefore apply. (3) Where a customs debt has been incurred as a result of an act which could have led to criminal proceedings at the time of its execution, it could, by way of derogation from the normal three-year limitation period, be collected within five years of the date of the customs debt being incurred. 4) There is provision for regulation equivalent to that laid down in the Tax Recovery Act on the means of recovery of customs duties. It is proposed to provide for a minimum recovery of EUR 10. 5) The minimum amounts of administrative sanctions, i.e. an increase in customs duties and an error fee, would be increased from EUR 10 to EUR 50, and the maximum rate of error is proposed to be aligned with the Act on Excise Taxation in certain circumstances to EUR 15000. (6) The provision of official assistance provided by Customs, as well as the possibility for it to receive official assistance, is expressly laid down. 7) The right to take away alcohol found during customs controls, held in violation of the alcohol law, is proposed to Customs, for example, from minors. And finally, In addition, in the future, Customs should pay compensation to the holder of the place of transport for the control facilities in its use at the transport points. This will increase Customs' operating costs, but ports, for example, will receive compensation for the use of the control facilities they provide, and the current administrative burden negotiations will disappear through unambiguous legislation. Here, Madam President, is the roughness of the government's proposal for a customs law and some related laws.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u3	Madam President! Customs is doing valuable work on the customs clearance of goods and the fight against crime. Every year Customs is able to enter significant cash flows into the state treasury. The media, having recently followed Customs’ activities — not only as a member of the Administrative Committee but also as a member of the Administrative Committee — have become the impression through the media that there are constantly different doubts and boils around Customs' management. However, although the minister was forced to leave, I ask the government and the minister: have the Minister and the government paid attention to these same problems, and what action has the government taken to remedy the matter and restore peace of work to Customs staff?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u4	Mr President! All in all, this amendment to the Customs Act is probably necessary. At the same time, it is possible to combine some of this fragmented legislation. But, just like Mr Kari here, you really have to wonder what's going on. The right thing is happening at Customs this day. There's a bet project going on there. Overall, efforts are being made to make customs more efficient in a number of ways. But from that expression, it seems that at the same time the President-in-Office is under very heavy pressure within the house — I would stress that it is based on the image. The questions raised by Mr Kari are very necessary. I think that, in the context of this legislative amendment in Parliament and the committee, we need to look into this, as well as the question whether, in fact, today and in the future, the Ministry of Finance is the right ministry under whose authority. Customs is working or should there be a new assessment of this relationship.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u5	Madam President! It is good to have a broader debate on customs. There is one important issue at this point, which is 2.9 million, which will be an additional cost. For Customs from now on, the rents of the premises. And when we here at Christmas discuss Customs' resources in relation to the prevention and control of the shadow economy, we know the challenges posed by online commerce, which increase Customs' remit. Now, due to this situation of asylum seekers and immigration, more tasks have been assigned to Customs, and yet Customs' resources are rather small and even threatened by cuts. That is why, of course, the question for the Minister of Finance would have been that, hopefully right now in the additional budget for next week, these Customs resources, which have already been written into this law, will be included when customs costs are increased. The second question is: apart from Mr Korhonen, this is a question of the division of duties between Customs and the Tax Administration, which has already been planned, and has been the subject of a group statement for a long time. What's the future? What, then, is the way in which these parafiscal charges and taxes will be collected in the future? Is everything moving here to the tax side of the VM, or is Customs still collecting? And then this second question is whether Customs is in the right place in the VM or whether it should be on the SM side where the police and Raja are currently with them. Customs is fixed. Would that be a better place in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u6	Madam President! There's been a conversation. The administrative status of Customs, and for the last six months I myself was responsible for the activities of both the Ministry of the Interior and then Customs. In this context, I have said this and I am increasingly convinced that, in particular, crime prevention and criminal investigations, which are a very important part of this. The activities of customs, the most significant in terms of staff, would certainly be a significant synergy if all these internal security actors were under the same administration. Unfortunately, there is currently duplication of work, duplication of investigation and between Customs and the police, and it is quite difficult in practice to make this cooperation between the authorities work in an appropriate way. But we do have PTR cooperation, which is police, Customs and Border Guard cooperation, which partly works. There has been an attempt to harmonise these provisions. Now I will just mention one detail about this law, which I think is very sensible and worthy of support. After all, it is proposed that customs should be empowered to remove alcohol, which is prohibited from possession, for example when a minor is contacted. The police already have these powers. Now this new mandate would also apply to Customs. I think this is a meaningful change. Then there are, on the other hand, these various increases in fines and charges, which are quite large. I would also like to draw attention to them in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u7	Madam President! I asked for the floor when I heard Mr Korhonen raise the issue of the administration of Customs in his own constructive way. I believe that this is something that should be addressed even more in the future. If it is seen that a course of action would improve productivity and efficiency and would also bring savings, then it is worth it. Of course, the Ministry of Finance has a connection to Customs through taxation, but in any case this is worth solving.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u8	Mr President! When Mr Stubb presented this legislation, he said that the minimum amount to be recovered was EUR 10. I drew my attention to this amount because it is worth considering in committee to find out what the cost of recovery is. It is very easy for the EUR 10 to be recovered to be less than the cost in practice. That is why I would like to draw attention to this issue. As far as other laws are concerned, I know, once they have been clarified, that even EUR 50 is easily one where collection costs may be higher and have been changed to EUR 100. This minimum amount to be recovered should be explained in the light of its recovery costs and determined accordingly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u9	Madam President! This reform is certainly welcome. When we talk about the need for administrative reform, it is easy to agree with these issues, and certainly the fact that Customs' resources should be at a level better able to stop, among other things, the counterfeiting of medicines, of course drugs as a part of their own, but also a huge number of different technical objects, the equipment becomes counterfeit. It is estimated that only between 2% and 3% of worldwide counterfeit shipments will be stopped and that up to 10% of the car spare parts business will be counterfeited. Then it is in the interests of all of us that customs should work both in Finland and globally. Of course, I am a little concerned that, while Finland’s customs stopped over 550,000 counterfeit products from 2010 to 2011, this has now dropped significantly to less than a fifth, about 100,000 counterfeits. Of course, certain changes have also taken place within the EU in the case of consignments from China and so on. But I am sure that this is also a question of the fact that resources are not quite sufficient when foreign trade, e-commerce and others have grown exponentially.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u10	Madam President! I am delighted to welcome Mr Korhonen and Mr Räsänen. Yes, it is extremely important to note that Customs is part of our system of internal security, and it would certainly be necessary to reflect openly now on whether it is appropriate to actually operate there under the Ministry of Finance, or whether the customs administration should then be transferred to the Ministry of the Interior and what kind of savings and benefits could then be achieved. This is particularly important in this situation when the resources of our internal security have been stretched extremely narrow. They're really narrow. And if customsmen could be used more effectively, for example in remote areas, also in public order and security tasks and not just through PTR cooperation, it would certainly serve the interests of the country as a whole. I also find it difficult and somewhat problematic that it is now at least outwards that things are not quite right there in the working atmosphere of Customs, so that there is certainly a need to address this issue as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u11	Madam President! Former Minister of the Interior, Mr Räsänen also raised the need to clarify Customs' tasks in the area of crime prevention and so on. I do not comment on this need or content to reorganise tasks, but I take the view that PTR cooperation — police, Customs and Border Guard cooperation — is an important part of Finnish crime prevention. And now, as a civil servant, there is an internal security report missing from a whole called Customs, one part of this three-letter combination of names, which, as I said, is an important part of our crime prevention — that is, this cooperation between the police, Customs and the Border Guard. I personally consider this to be a major deficiency. The report should be given to Parliament, apparently within a few weeks, and we have no real opportunity to assess them now, as Mr Räsänen has pointed out. Customs duties, as this part of the report will be missing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u12	Madam President! I am addressing Customs' role in the fight against the shadow economy and financial crime. Customs has played an important role in this area, and if the role of Customs is compared to the role of the Tax Administration, for example, then Customs differs in the sense that Customs also has the opportunity to investigate, that is to say, it has the possibility of criminal investigation, and it has accumulated a great deal of expertise in the fight against the shadow economy and financial crime and its investigation. And now it is happening to these role models that the role of Customs as tax collector will be reduced. But I am concerned that the knowledge and experience that Customs has acquired in the fight against the shadow economy, in the fight against financial crime and in the investigation of these crimes must be able to use in this society in one way or another, so that it does not go to waste.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u13	Mr President! I very much agree with what Mr Uotila has just said. The role of customs in the fight against crime and, in particular, in these tax matters. Many times then, this debate also forgets that Customs has traditionally been a key tax collector, not only in the field of customs control, but also in relation to the tax collection which has been central to the movement of goods. It has been very effective and reliable, and this should not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u14	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u15	Mr President! The draft law aims to promote investor protection and the transparency and stability of investment funds markets. The proposal includes regulation on remuneration practices of financial institutions. The proposal as such is a technical implementation of the directive, but it is an important issue. The principles of remuneration for banks and financial undertakings have become a critical issue in the wake of the financial crisis. The principles of risk-taking and short-term profit-oriented remuneration have been in the process of triggering the international economic and financial crisis that began in 2007. The financial crisis was driven by a distorted corporate remuneration policy, which encouraged financial workers to take excessive risks through remuneration schemes in the hope of personal rewards. The staff were encouraged to speculate on other people's money without personal risk. This type of remuneration policy led to excessive risk-taking and instability in the financial system as a whole, leading to the financial crisis. The problem and unfair remuneration practices may not be so much a Finnish problem but a major problem in the EU and globally. The proposal is a step in the right direction, but it alone will not solve the problems. What is also important is that the monitoring function is carried out rigorously and rigorously. We must not forget the lessons of the financial crisis. We never want to see another financial crisis again. Never again must the greed of financial gamblers wave over the world economy and the lives of innocent people. Mr President! According to publicly available data and estimates, a new and even bigger financial collapse may still be ahead. Unhealthy incentives, rewards and a culture of action that led to the financial crisis continue to exist in the world, unfortunately, but fortunately this proposal and directives are now contributing to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u16	Madam President! As mentioned above, these directives, on which the legislation is based, have been discussed and adopted in the European Parliament in the last period and are now being implemented by 18 March 2016. Indeed, many of these changes are good and tighten the hold on investment funds and contribute to investor protection and market transparency. One-off costs are incurred by approximately ten banks acting as depositary for the renewal of information systems. These increased demands may also slightly increase the need for staff. But as a whole, these changes have a positive impact on the investment fund market. In Finland, households' share directly and indirectly is perhaps close on 40 per cent of Finnish mutual fund shares. When you look at this issue from a retail investor’s point of view, it is really good that these stricter requirements include, among other things, a remuneration system that needs to be provided in detail in fund brochures and key investor information brochures and also indicate the total amount of wages and salaries in the annual report. Just as Mr Sarkkinen said there, as the financial crisis could be said, it was very much the fact that many times these compensation schemes were likely to increase reckless risk-taking. Perhaps one could mention that it is of course possible that depositary activity may now be concentrated on larger international players, who will then be subject to even stricter control and criteria, and in that sense may have some effect on the market access of small management companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u17	Mr President! It is good that the activities of investment funds and the conditions for authorisation are clarified and specified. Investment products are currently so complex that it is necessary to monitor them if we are to avoid a new financial crisis. It is also essential, essential, to limit wages, rewards and bonuses in the sector, as the remuneration system continues to encourage false risk-taking, where, unlike the basic market economy rule, risk and liability are not linked. What this legislation does not interfere with is investment products from insurance companies, which are similar to investment funds, but are excluded from taxation because of the lack of laws. Investment insurance is subject to very light property taxation in Sweden, and we have done the same in the SDP's alternative budget. The revenue would be more than EUR 100 million per year. The figures are capitalisation contracts, i.e. insurance envelopes, which are insurances only nominally. No one or anything is actually insured. They are openly marketed by the fact that transactions within the envelope are tax-free. Private capitalisation agreements have multiplied in a few years to EUR 9 billion. These private contracts are very popular with wealthy people because they are not public. However, the risk is significant because these so-called insurances are not covered by financial supervision. The tax treatment between investment products is therefore not neutral. We expect action from the government to ensure that investment insurance, including capitalisation agreements, is also subject to supervision and taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u18	Madam President! I think it is worth listening to the government's words of wisdom just now, Mr Haraka. All in all, we have a very undertaxed financial sector and, in this situation, we should certainly look for ways to bring this sector within the scope of joint projects. But, President-in-Office, in this context I would like to raise a very topical concern, which is of course related to this Nordea company arrangement and the fact that it is becoming a branch. After all, the Financial Supervisory Authority has been very concerned about this, and the government and Stubb have also been asked for support. Of course, we must hope that all the intellectual support and prestige that is available here will be put into the game. The big thing about this, President, is that with this corporate arrangement, the entire large bank will be transferred outside the Financial Supervisory Authority and will have an impact on, among other things, supervisory fees. Certainly it will happen that, in a worrying way, supervisory fees may fall by several million, which of course will affect the resources of the entire Financial Supervisory Authority to carry out its very important supervisory function. This is a big worry. This is certainly not an unwarranted concern. There is, of course, a great risk that the possibilities for this supervision will be reduced, and we should certainly not be able to afford that today, because we know the importance of financial supervision. I would now be interested to know what the government is going to do about this resource issue, which we are undoubtedly facing with this future development.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u19	Madam President! Mr Viitanen raised a very important issue here, and it is a pity that we do not have a minister here from the government to visit this debate. It would be good if we could get a more precise picture of whether this has been taken into account and what we are going to do about it. But now that this is the case, Mr President, in the context of the debate on this issue, it is also more important to raise the question of the neutrality of the various investment products that Mrs Haraka has really raised. Indeed, the SDP put forward in its own alternative budget that a minimum tax on these investment insurance policies would bring up to EUR 100 million to the Treasury. Now that I have noticed that the government is quite disunified in preparing for the spending limits debate, and when I see that there is a group chairman of the government party present, I would like to ask whether the government has considered that revenue can be raised in such a way that it does not directly affect the purchasing power of small and medium-income people — for example, with this SDP proposal. Is the government prepared to consider these?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u20	Mr President! Representative Viitanen raised an important and topical issue about this possible branch change in Nordea. This really is no small thing. Our banking sector is so focused that if this branch change takes place, a large part of the resources of the Financial Supervisory Authority will go away and the question arises as to whether the Financial Supervisory Authority will then need to resource by the State in order to be able to perform the supervisory function adequately. This is also important for consumers, because the whole of this supervision will then be passed on to the Swedish authorities and, for example, deposit protection will be introduced into Swedish practice. This is in no way a small thing. I hope that the government will be active in this and take care of the resources of the Financial Supervisory Authority on the one hand and the rights and status of Finnish banking customers on the other.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u21	Mr President! I really hope that, although there are no government ministers here today, we will have an answer to this question of resources, because this is an extremely important, critical issue, even in relation to how we will then be able to ensure that our financial sector operates properly and that risks in that sector are avoided. But yes, Mr President, it would have been interesting to see Mr Lindtman here raising an important question in the light of the forthcoming debate on the spending limits and, last weekend, following the discussion of how to deal with these financial issues by the government parties, Mr Satonen here as the group chairman of the delegation to answer this fundamental question by Mr Lindtman, but I think he has now left the Chamber. Otherwise, I hope that we can take a position here as to whether you could take up these different openings from the SDP's alternative budget on how we could increase the financial sector's involvement in voluntary activities or how these capitalisation agreements will be taxed in the future, because now if we ever have to look for new ones,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u22	Madam President! Mr Viitanen rightly challenged the need to assess these measures taken by the government against the fact that the demarches have made this alternative budget. How would you comment on it now, when you had it there — I memorize it — this clearing up of Sitra’s balance sheet and the transfer of the Bank of Finland’s money to the State? I can't tell you which one of these is the best way. There are different ideas in the government: the Government Programme is being followed, that is clear. I don't think anyone's gonna know about that. Admittedly, the fact that the last four years went by, so to speak, while spinning thumbs has caused a slight upset of the way in which the existing economic policy is being followed. But let us not go to the point where we start looking back and wondering what really happened there behind the back, because the world is ahead. The crises and the situations that we now have must be addressed. I am sure that the government, in its own budgetary framework, will be able to take a position on these issues, and I do not doubt that there will be lively discussions there, but this situation is so difficult that there are no easy issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u23	Mr President! Last week, or was it the other week, the Prime Minister said here that state property should be active. That nothing, Hoskonen, except balance sheets for work — here is the SDP presentation. The government has specifically asked for alternatives from the opposition, and when we talk about this government programme, Mrs Hoskonen, I think that Vice-President Pekkarinen in the centre has made a very valuable speech on whether the government programme is now in need of change, whether it is behind time, and it seems that it is because the government is going through further cuts. We have made a proposal with a very serious mind, and now I will say one specific motion: let us, for example, put a small tax on these investment insurance policies, which would also have the benefit, as Mr Harakka said, of bringing different forms of investment closer together, on the same line. Why should the tax authorities support other forms but not others? Here's an option for you now. This would allow you to cancel, for example, these increases in customer fees or, for example,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u24	Madam President! I would also like to stress that the 'balances for work' has been a requirement here, for example, in the centre last season, and now that we want to put them to work, among other things, so that we can invest in home school repairs and such important things, I think that these are good openings and that they should be taken up. Mr Lindtman raised the question here, among other things, of Vice-President Pekkarinen's wise speech that the government programme should now be revised in a more employment-friendly direction. This was also called for by the President of the Central Party Council, in an embryo-minded manner. And now that we have followed your discussions this weekend in this regard, would it not be wise now to (a) review the government programme in a more employable direction and (b) avoid the disastrous additional cuts with which the Minister of Finance has repeatedly intimidated us here? It is a very destructive road and should not be taken. In order for this equation to be possible, it is entirely legitimate, and it is desirable that you look into the alternative budget of the SDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u25	Mr President! We do not now have the chairman of the parliamentary group, as Vice-President here I am. Of course, it is a good thing that this debate is being held and, of course, on Thursday, when the government ministers are present, this will continue further. Of the cutting lists that were mentioned here and which the Minister of Finance has presented: Sampo Terhohan suggested that we might discuss a loan from outside the spending limits. There is no consensus on this yet. In that sense, although I am not a member of the National Coalition, there seems to be no response here. And that we should go in a more employable direction: I think we have a job-creating direction. Of course, there is a difference of opinion about this, and I am sure that in this brief one-minute speech we will not be able to open it all up, but we think we will try our best — and we will listen to the opposition and we have listened to it so far.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u26	Madam President! The Social Democrats have always been good at inventing new taxes, and they still are. This government will listen to the opposition, the proposals will be accepted and treated in a fair manner, but there is a risk that we will go too far in taxation too, there will be limits. I think the government sees it right in this situation. At least, in my opinion, it is very dangerous for the majority of the government if, in this economic situation, there is a confrontation between the Finns and asylum seekers. It is one of the major questions of this spending limits group whether to borrow more and deal with this asylum crisis. I think it should, because it's very dangerous to be able to talk truthfully about that grandma out and mamu inside, to put it so harshly. It certainly does not contribute to social peace, and I believe that the Social Democrats share this view.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u27	Mr President! That weekend I gave some compliments to the Finns: they have been the most loyal to the government from all the government parties, at least from the parliamentary debate. There has been more pain in the assembly and in the center. This is a real compliment, and you can see it from this conversation too. There would now be an alternative at the table, such as a small tax on these investment insurance policies, which could be used for other tax reductions, for example, the tax reduction for pensioners promised by the coalition in the run-up to the elections but not implemented. Or it could, for example, pay off the debt that the Coalition Party has taken up since 87, for example, EUR 99 billion. However, the question is that there are alternatives, we can responsibly manage the economy, break Finland's debt, but by what means? I would now like to know whether the government is prepared to assess:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u28	Mr President! When Mr Lindtman raised these tax reductions, I would urge and it would be good if we were talking specifically about reducing the tax on low-paid workers, if you would familiarise yourself with the material made by Mr Haraka, and you should also get to know the very relevant writing by Heikki Hiilamo, which was in the Helsingin Sanomat. It specifically indicated that what kind of difficulties our middle class is currently facing, and precisely those who support themselves with paid work, with a reasonable salary. I would hope that this will not be a terrible criticism of the target group of the tax reduction, because it is precisely because it seeks that even that work will be able to support its family and, therefore, this society with its own work to take forward. This is a pretty big problem, too, internationally, that there are reasonable solutions for this group.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u29	Mr President! It is a pleasure to note that Mr Satosen's nightstand has some decent reading and no Tex Willers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u30	Madam President! When Mr Lindtman praised the Finns, I too would like to praise the Social Democrats. Social Democrats in Finland are indeed champions of Europe to invent new taxes, and that is why, of course, the government listens very carefully to your views and suggestions on new tax targets. When the President also seems to allow a debate on the budgetary frameworks for next year, I would like to say to Mr Elo and others that it is quite self-deception to imagine that if the expenditure on immigration is transferred outside the spending limits they will somehow disappear, that after that they will no longer be a problem. It's not like that. The same Finnish taxpayers pay the extra costs of immigration, whether outside the spending limits or within the spending limits.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u31	Mr President! As far as this Socialist alternative budget and tax proposals are concerned, once again: in our alternative budget, the tax rate will not rise. Taxes are only collected in a fairer, fairer way. In our alternative budget, we would reduce the tax burden on low- and middle-income employees more than the government will reduce, and at the same time, in a fair way, we would also reduce the tax burden on a low- and medium-income pensioner. This should already happen to the assembly which, before the elections, said at the mouth of President Stubb that this is a basic philosophy for the assembly, that pensioners are treated equally. We will not, ladies and gentlemen, end this debate in this Chamber until the government corrects this really great injustice that the government has brought into force since the beginning of this year. It has become, you know, a lot of feedback at the Tammela Market, when you wonder why, in violation of election promises, pensioners are being taxed in an unequal way. But once again, in a recap:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u32	Madam President! Here, Mr Satonen quite rightly raised the question of how many times it is challenging for a person to cope with low-paid work today. We have one of the biggest issues that should be put right during this term of government, namely the coordination of work and social security. I therefore hope that the government will look at this model of basic protection that encourages the Christian Democrats, in which this reconciliation of work and social security takes place in a way that is always encouraging, that is to say, it is always worthwhile to accept work. It is important that these subsidies are linearly reduced and taken into account in terms of taxation, and yet, for every euro that is earned by its work, at least 35% remains in the hands of the Member States. I know that Kela is doing calculations and they come out at the end of March, as I recall, and I really hope that the KD model will also be there, and perhaps at the stake, when we start to build this new basic guarantee of reconciliation of work and social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u33	Mr President! Yes, Mr Satonen, the middle class, the middle-income and low-income workers should be concerned, and that is why, in the alternative budget for this year, we proposed that people should have more money for wages and pensions, i.e. more money and pensions in their hands. But this was opposed by the Coalition Party. The Coalition Party objected to giving the middle-income people more money in the hand. In addition, the Coalition Party objected to the fact that middle-income pensioners would be more left in the hands of the pensioner because it failed to honour its promise to keep the pensioner's taxation at the level of employees. And now that we are talking about investment funds, if the government were to prepare in the spending limits debate for new tax base extensions that could then be used to make tax reductions elsewhere, it would certainly have an impact on this law. No, on the other hand, you voted against this and you will also hit these big increases in customer fees, which raises the question — when asked.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u34	Mr President! I do not know how much further this debate will benefit. I'm sure there'll be a lot more of that around here. But perhaps it is a good thing to say — and I am sure it is understood both here and outside the Chamber — that it is quite a different matter to be in a government than it is in an opposition. The government has overall responsibility for these matters. In this economic situation, where Finland is in a very difficult situation, it has been chosen that, even in this situation, efforts are being made to improve the position of low-income and middle-income wage earners through tax reductions. I think it would be fair and reasonable for that decision to be valued to some extent here, because it has nevertheless been an important choice of values as to what other solutions have unfortunately been taken in this situation, many that no one would like to make but which are necessary in this economic situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u35	Mr President! In this hall throughout the autumn, the Finns of Peru have falsely accused the SDP of wanting to accept debt. And now, Congressman Elo here is declaring the beauty of further borrowing. I would remind you that the SDP's alternative budget would take less debt than the government in its own budget. Recently, the Economic Policy Review Council criticised the government specifically for not using fiscal tools to balance the economy. It is a serious deficiency, and it is an irresponsible act. In the SDP's alternative budget, as Mr Viitanen said, the tax rate will not rise but will still be collected more fairly than the government does. It would be responsible to collect taxes on items that do not undermine economic activity and employment. And these options, as the Economic Policy Review Council states, are not deliberately used by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u36	Let me give one more reply to those who have asked for it, Mr Elo, Mr Viitanen, Mr Hoskonen, and then let us go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u37	Mr President! Today, good morning in Finland, I discussed these issues with Mr Heinäluoma, and he agreed with me that this $600 million asylum crisis should now be taken as an additional debt in order to avoid this kind of confrontation, which is a danger. Congressman Zyskowicz said it's self-deception. Well, it is true, of course, that the debt will also be paid, but not here and now, but later. In my opinion, it is self-deception what the chairman of the Assembly said in this regard: that you cannot put these together but must look at things as a whole, that when you take them away it is not out of the other. It can't be like this. It's self-deception. And here we also have to take into account the fact that 600 million are now being taken from. No one in the assembly has yet said where 600 million will be taken. That's the concrete thing I'd like to hear. And it is also important to note that this is not part of the EU deficit procedure. That is what we can do if we wish to do so within that framework. I think that would be a much more sensible solution for social peace.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u38	Madam President! From here in the opposition, it is interesting now to follow in advance this government spending limits argument, when it seems that here the government parties are now divided and quarreling over these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u41	Madam President! In his own speech, Mr Lindtman presented a tax on investment funds. However, I would ask you to be a little careful here. This idea in itself is very fascinating, I do not deny it, but it is the case that international investment funds tend to operate internationally not only in Finland but in the whole EU region and in the world, and if we start doing things like this in small separate taxes, it will inevitably lead to a quick escape of capital from this country. Then where are we? Then we're in really big trouble. Work and all other benefits have been taxed in this country. I say that we are on the frontline of the European standard. Our competitiveness must be improved, labour productivity must be improved and, above all, the situation in this country that is always the best option. That is why I very much hope, Madam President, that we will succeed well in the negotiations on the social pact that we are currently holding, and that we will be able to stabilise this situation. We have always been able to invent taxes in this country, and it has not improved our situation; on the contrary, it has worsened.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u42	Let us continue this debate on the actual list of speakers. Mr Lindtman will have his turn there as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u43	Mr President! I would really like to return to this motion on the agenda to amend the Investment Funds Act and the Financial Supervisory Act. The hard work of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has already heard a large number of experts on this subject today, and this is ultimately about the implementation of the directive on investment funds for Finland. As such, it will certainly be embedded in our legislation, even because this current law is the result of historical progress and, in many respects, quite confusing. What is good about this is that, hopefully, this will clarify the legislation, it will perhaps create investment certainty and this kind of transparency and above all, as Mr Sarkkinen and many others stressed, the principles of remuneration and remuneration will be addressed and moderated as well as that Financial supervision will be able to impose such administrative penalties, which will be much higher than at present. Here are a lot of such positive things in the law itself, which will apply to Finland. This debate, which has taken place here otherwise, is, in itself, extremely important, and it is good that we continue in this Chamber with these considerations, including Mrs Haraka's proposal and many others. But this bill itself is, with this directive, something that also brings a lot of new, better than it is today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u44	Madam President! This law amending the law on investment funds and the law on financial supervision is appropriate and timely in itself, but I am deeply sorry that these laws should have been enacted in the mid-1990s, i.e. towards the end of the last millennium, because after the coming of this millennium, this whole financial world exploded. The European Union was in debt of thousands of billions of euros per year, and that has caused the situation if you read Jan Hurr's article on the Economic Messages, which talked about the current situation in Deutsche Bank, how the situation in this giant bank is really bad. In that case, Jan Hurri is opening up this madness of the hedge fund world. According to Jan Hurr, Deutsche Bank’s various derivatives and investment instruments currently contain approximately EUR 52000 billion — approximately EUR 52000 billion at the end of 2014. With such responsibilities for one bank, last week Deutsche Bank had to get into trouble and the German State had to come to the aid and convince them that Germany believes in its own largest bank. Well, things calmed down for a while, but it is good that these laws are now being passed and that rules are being laid down for these different funds. But unfortunately, it's all too late. In the early 21st century, during the first parliamentary term here, I warned against these absurd investments that this business would run away. Now we are in a situation where the sums are so huge that if anyone thinks that the problems caused by these risks are going to have to be borne by budgetary resources or by the proceeds of the national economy, the accidents caused by these various derivatives on the stock exchanges to pay with taxpayers' money, then it will not be a thing at all. Instead, we have to act straight in this matter and demand that those who have taken their risks carry them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u45	Madam Speaker! In this debate, I have now forgotten that no nation has ever prospered by taxes, loans or spending, but the basis for the prosperity of all nations has always been work and saving. Some 60 years ago, Urho Kekkonen, elected President of the Republic, asked whether our country had the patience to become prosperous, and that question can be thrown into this debate. In Finnish bank accounts, billions of euros lie at virtually zero or rather minus interest, when inflation is gnawing at them. I therefore think it is very important that, while constrained in such foolish investments, wrong kinds of derivatives, we encourage ordinary working middle-class Finns to save and invest. Increasing economic understanding and civilisation is very important, and investment funds are one good way of doing so, and increasing their security is something I fully support. I hope, however, that the government of our country, a good government, will now also take on board the tax exemption for these small shares in the government programme. It would be good if small dividends of a few hundred euros were tax-free, so that Finns would transfer their own bank deposits to shares in domestic listed companies and gain ownership in blue and white Finnish hands. I also think it is very important to find out how Finnish investment behaviour could be made more and more from bank accounts and real estate investments to unlisted limited companies, small companies, growth companies and start-ups, and in that way the economy of this country would actually be in order and then take off.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u46	Mr President! The government proposal now under discussion is important in many ways. It is important that the policy of investment funds is transparent, which is why there are a lot of worthwhile targets here. I would also like to say to Mr Hoskonen, who has now left, but let me say this to the Minutes: firstly, I agree that consumption and work in Finland are being overtaxed in relation to capital. In fact, this is also a fact if you look at it at European level. In Finland, capital is undertaxed, and then, on the other hand, we will have to pay more taxes on work and consumption. One way would be to expand the tax base. The link to this proposal is that the SDP has not proposed an extension of the tax base to investment funds. No, it is precisely these so-called investment insurance policies, which are abrogated by old legislation. And, as has been said about this competition, Sweden has this in use. In my opinion, on this financial market, Finland should move forward with the Nordic countries on one foot. That is why the proposal we have put forward is quite genuine, and that is why the government should not now simply, on the basis of the direction from which it comes, knock it out. After all, we saw a lot of opposition tax proposals here last season. One, for example, was this proposal from the Finns of Peru for taxing these foundations, from which this foundation of the Finns of Peru was limited. We haven't done anything like that, but it's been done in a very serious way. President! Finally, on the issue of asylum in the framework, I would like to say that the SDP, already in the autumn of the Committee on Budgets, pointed out that when it comes to large, one-off expenditure, it should be removed from the framework. I just want to say this to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u47	Mr President! Mr Viitanen and Mr Lindtman, you spoke a lot in favour of creating these jobs and the way the SDP suggested that these options would bring them jobs — the whole tone of the speech is that the government will not succeed in any of its objectives. Now, if we recall how the last parliamentary term went, I think you had quite a pompous job creation goal back then, and I think it was the creation of 100,000 jobs, and it was the opposite, so what has changed so much in this matter that you would achieve its 35,000 jobs and employment growth would be around 1.3% by the means which your alternative budget is? It is not just the three sides that create the jobs that you are constantly talking about. It has already been seen in these negotiations on the labour market that, for some reason, the Social Democrats have played themselves in such a middle ground that they do not want to create that agreement without a hard labour struggle. And I am afraid that even the 35,000 jobs you are seeking will not be created unless there is social peace here and, in that sense, it is understood that some savings must be made by the government. The second point is that we did not know in the last elections what kind of economic situation or, not to mention, what kind of migration crisis lies ahead during this regime. If we had known this, I think that those signals would have been quite different in elections for all of us parties as well as in government negotiations. Now we have gone to government negotiations in those current situations, and it is not possible for the Finns of Finland alone to continue to blame for what has been heard here that we have turned the coat one day and another day. This economic situation is only what it is, and it is reality. At least give us a chance to do this work for a while and see if it will improve employment and whether there will be a look-alike rat in this society from these areas. This takes time, you know it, but it's obviously not something you want to admit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u48	Mr Laukkanen will now give an example of how to return to the actual issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u49	Mr President! How did you know I was thinking? This presentation at hand is indeed welcome, and there are many good things in it. Here are a few of them: It clarifies the law and harmonises European practice, provides tools for monitoring, creates protection for citizens, harmonises remuneration practices and, above all, what I consider to be very important here, this management responsibility is clearly defined. It's very important. This requirement of competence as a whole is also clearly described here. These are the elements that citizens need when they wonder where they put their money. As was said here, 65 billion people are standing on bank accounts all the time. They could also be in productive work, producing good things. Mr President! This was from the core.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u50	Madam President! Indeed, this government proposal is also about fees and responsibilities. I cannot fail to note that — when considering the reasons for the financial crisis, there are certainly many — one unquestionable reason has been the incorrectly tuned remuneration, bonuses, options and a wrongly tuned risk-taking and liability ratio of the financial sector. In view of what happened in the financial crisis, when bank leaders and lower employees took a huge risk on taxpayers, if they succeeded, they became millionaires, if they failed, it was not their problem, it was the taxpayer’s problem. Various solutions to these problems have now been sought. There has been regulation of the remuneration of the financial sector and, above all, a European banking union, where one of the key ideas is that the risk of a bank failing would no longer be borne by taxpayers but by the owners of the bank, it would be held by creditors of the bank. These problems, which are today around Deutsche Bank, are helping to test this new situation. As such, one might think that part of the collapse of the relevant bank’s rates indicates that the owners recognize these risks. I hope this is what this is all about. But although progress has been made, much still needs to be done on the part of both ownership responsibility and remuneration regulation, because, as the recently published recent book on the financial sector tells us, this mismatch between remuneration and liability is still a reality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u51	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz has made a good speech, so we can fully agree with that. It's just like this. The Social Democrats have been pushing for this for a long time, taking concrete action and working to ensure that this investor's responsibility is fulfilled. Last season there was a very heavy policy that did not always happen that the taxpayer would pay the violins at the end of the day when the losses came and the profits were private. This is very important and action is certainly still needed to tighten up the systems. But, President-in-Office, I cannot help but go back to the point where the socialists were directly fingered here and we thought that we would not have the measures to employ them: Yes, we have the Rinne employment model. It makes passive unemployment benefit available for active use. We would invest in concrete measures in the export industry. It's got all the performances in the alternative budget. We have an entrepreneurship package with concrete measures to promote entrepreneurship. We also have proposals for investment: building, repairing homes, roads and also those home schools, libraries, day-care centres. In all of these collectively, very cautiously, according to estimates made in the information service, we would have this 35,000 jobs, and note, according to conservative calculations, because we did not want to promise too much. So, in that respect, I would prefer to have a positive catch rather than say that we do not have any measures. And, Mr President, I cannot yet repeat that I am very confused by the fact that the government has acted in such a way that it has not taken such concrete measures but has believed in the possible entry into force of next year — whether it is a compulsory solution, hopefully not — and I thought that the work will then be done by cutting the salaries of workers and workers by 5%, and now we are standing straight. Of course it does not work, but it is positive measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u55	Mr President! In order to keep up with this original theme, I would like to start with this perspective on the reform of the fund law, that once we discussed this debt building, we now saw this aspect of how Finnfund got EUR 60 million more money for companies in developing countries than it asked for and this has been practically taken with debt money. That this debt-laundering activity now seems to be at one and another site, and in that sense I can well understand Mr Elon’s mention of this EUR 600 million or, rather, closer to the EUR 1 billion that comes out of this immigration crisis this year. It cannot be taken from the budget by cutting a place very easily, and in that sense it is understandable to take the debt money. But to the point. Representative Viitanen: I believe that the government will warmly welcome all good proposals, as the ministers have said here, and will not knock out the first proposal, as you did during the last term of government. It was a very constructive debate with you, however, when we kept making proposals, and I am grateful for that, for example, Minister Viitanen, when you were in the position at the time that you were very positive about everything. In that sense, I do not believe that we would have such a streak between this government and the opposition, even though the differences of opinion are now similar to the one we had in the last period. This is what this policy is about when the fence is sitting over there and when it is sitting on this side of the fence. But this employment issue itself. In my opinion, the big issue of correction is these over 110,000 uneducated young adults under the age of 29 who have no qualifications. Their access to education must take place through a path that has not yet been tried. And at the moment, we only have a monopoly on municipalities, for example, to train. For example, part-time degrees and such part-time trainings have hardly been viewed with favorable eyes up to now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u56	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, I asked for this intervention — not to speak at first — when discussing these government programmes and debts and many other issues. I think that there were very important speeches here about this bill that we have people's money on accounts and that people should dare to invest in making it go around. And I thought there were some good ideas here that there would be no tax on small capital gains. I think we should think about it very carefully. But here, in my opinion, the SDP pointed out that the government has not listened so much to you. I think we've been really listening. Minister Lindström took over from Rinte on this issue of employment. You've been listened to. The fact that we have little faith in a different employment policy in some points does not mean that we have not listened. After all, listening does not mean doing exactly what one person says, but accepting ideas with an open mind. Mr Viitanen spoke about the fact that you had these corrective debt projects. After all, the government has granted money for these things, that is what we have done. I just had a little bit of a problem with the idea being ignored. I'm impressed. Unfortunately, I do not know your budget by heart, I admit, but I remember the debate that you, for example, had not found the figures on the profits of the grey economy to be terribly realistic in this Chamber. Of course, that budget was built on some of it, but it is difficult for anyone to know. I don't think any of us are right about what that number is. But we're listening. And then Mr Zyskowicz said that somehow a little childish is the idea of taking out a loan, but all the different things need to be weighed up, and I think that when the matter has not yet been decided, different views should be brought forward. And a good conversation has been going on here so thank you for that. We're listening.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u57	Mr President! Mr Kurvinen has just raised the issue of the tax exemption for small dividends, and I think that this idea should be supported. Kurvinen now left, but let this limit be set by Kurvise for tax-exempt dividends of EUR 500 or EUR 1000. In many other countries long-established shares can be sold on tax-free terms, and in Finland too, for domestic shares and similar investments, an increased assumption of acquisition costs could be introduced according to the duration of ownership, which would increase by, for example, 10 percentage points per year. In this case, shares held for 8 years could, if they so wished, be sold without tax consequences if the starting point was the current 20 % of the cost. After all, after 10 years, the assumption of cost is only 40% and does not take into account the impact of inflation, and I believe that this undermines interest in long-term investment. Similarly, the tax burden on dividends could be reduced accordingly, depending on the length of the period of ownership of the shares. One other thing I would like to say is that even in Finland the possibility of investing dividends from shares in shares of the same company without tax consequences could be promoted. After all, this model is used in the United States, among other things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u58	Mr President! I just wanted to say that it was nice to hear that even a few speeches here proved that you intend to catch up on these good proposals from the SDP's alternative budget, and that is really important that you go through them. I think it has been remarkable, and we have already mentioned that it has been a good thing, in this Chamber, for example, that the Minister of Labour, Lindström, has said that he is taking a catch on this model of the Ringe and has said that the model of the Ringe is being studied and taken forward. And yes, we look forward to that day when the model of the Ringe comes from there. Then we can, together, rejoice because I think it is a good example of the fact that the government can then also take forward the opposition's proposals. And in this respect, these speeches were very nice to hear.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u59	Mr President! We are partly in a bad economic situation, precisely because of the SDP. Professor Vesa Kanniainen said that it would cost EUR 20 billion to leave the euro, but it would still be worth it. The Washington Post says: "Finland is the post child for what the euro doesn't work". It is nice to be a model of something, that is, Finland is a model of why this single monetary policy does not work. Greece would never have received such debts if it had not been a member of the single monetary union. This is the truth, and that is why we owe 75% in seven years because we have located this lack of competitiveness with debt because the currency is not flexible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u60	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u61	Mr President! This new tax treaty between Finland and Spain is very welcome, and it is excellent that justice is realised. A pensioner living in Spain who was involved in the operation of the Coalition Party strongly protested about the change in taxation in Finland, but it is worth remembering that he too has been allowed to deduct pension contributions from taxation for decades, so it is only fair that the tax should be paid to the country where the deductions have been made. One of the drawbacks of free movement in the European Union has been that it has led to tax competition, both for individuals and for businesses. Perhaps the most flagrant examples of this are the zero tax offer made by Portugal, which many Finnish pensioners, especially wealthy pensioners, have wanted to take up. And I would also like to thank the government for negotiating when a party to the agreement is found in Portugal, including in order to remedy this problem. An attempt has been made to conclude this tax agreement for a long time, and only the new model of tax agreement developed by the OECD in 2005 has led to a result. It should be noted that the European Union has not wanted or been able to intervene. Furthermore, the latest OECD programme to prevent business-to-business tax evasion is equally important, the BEPS, the Base Erosion and Profile Shifting programme. Business-to-business tax evasion is driving the financing of public services from European countries precisely when public services are most needed as a result of an ageing population. I am pleased that the EU has finally become active. After all, last month the Commission published a package of anti-tax avoidance measures aimed at closing loopholes in which companies operating in the EU can artificially recycle their profits to the cheapest country of taxation and to tax havens outside the EU. Of course, this is where the Member States, whose taxation is based on false tax competition, play an important role, especially in Ireland, the Netherlands and the country of the President of the Commission, Luxembourg. It is particularly gratifying in the Commission's proposal that it includes a requirement for country accounts. It is not easy to determine exactly where the taxable profit has been generated, and in individual cases Finland may also lose tax revenue. However, for a welfare society such as Finland, it is a long-term necessity that the distortive tax race should end. The Member States must therefore be aware of their responsibilities. When he was Minister of Finance, Jutta Urpilainen was determined to reject international tax evasion as Finland's policy and to encourage action by the European Union as a whole. At the same time, the resources of the Finnish tax authorities were increased in order to curb fraud and avoidance. This was an example of leadership. The European Union has now finally come to the line that Finland has already outlined, but now, unfortunately, Finland is no longer at the forefront. During Urplainen’s time, a law was adopted which limits the artificial debt ratios within the group and the tax benefit thus obtained. However, it should now be extended to real estate investment companies. This is what the centre called for — quite rightly — while in opposition, but now that it has power, it has not wanted to intervene in this billion-dollar loophole and tax loss, contrary to what the SDP requires in its alternative budget. If the government is serious about preventing tax evasion, do it. There is, of course, knowledge in the board, because there is a minister in the board who has set up a Belgian company to exploit this particular loophole. So until now, the government has shown by its legislative proposals that it does not go to the pace of the European Commission to limit tax evasion, let alone at the forefront. After all, the government presented a Billionary Tax Refugees Amnesty Act, which it had to withdraw, and the government presented a code of governance that undermines the publicity of investments, which it had to withdraw — a sad indication that tax evaders are close to the government’s heart. The government now has a burden of proof if it wants to convince citizens that it is responsible for tax revenue. As I said, it is welcome and commendable to change the tax treaties with Spain and Portugal. At the same time, we hope that it will continue to show genuine interest in preventing tax withholding and tax evasion. It means a full and complete turn in government policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u62	Madam President! This is a positive, important and necessary proposal, which is now at our disposal. While I say that this is a good thing, I would also rush this case of Portugal so that we can have similar arrangements there as quickly as possible. President! This is a big deal when we talk about tax evasion overall. It is a big thing that the SDP has determinedly wanted to dismantle. Last season, concrete measures came from our finance ministers, and in this period, there are concrete examples of how we could avoid this in our alternative budget. As Mr Harakka mentioned, we have, for example, an alternative budget in connection with this group-reduction issue for real estate investment companies. We have calculated very carefully that it could generate 60 million more money for the Finnish State. I have sometimes thought out loud whether it could not be symbolic to think that, by eliminating this tax evasion, when we get more money for common services, for our common livelihood, then, let us say that, with this same amount, the government could cancel these rather brutal and cold increases in customer fees and the increases in the daily care fee by taking this money from tax evaders, which is now taken from ordinary families with children. In this way, we also believe that our budget serves justice in the fight against this tax evasion. But, President-in-Office, just like Mr Harakka before me, I do hope that the government will have a more rapid and sharp approach to getting this tax evasion under control. If, however, we are able to get the important euro that we share here in the previous debate, and it was very clear that if we do not have it, then there will be further cuts or foolish decisions. I would not, of course, like to stress this, and that is why I would also like to stress this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u63	Madam President! I believe that, for once, quite a few people agree that this has gone in the right direction. Finally, after lengthy negotiations, a tax agreement has been reached with Spain, which in future will prevent double taxation and also prevent tax evasion in relation to the current situation where there have been numerous problems. A person resident in Spain has not been able to pay private sector pensions paid from Finland, to tax and the rental income of an apartment owned in Finland by a person resident in Spain has not been taxed, nor has it been possible to tax the profits of these apartments. In Spain, however, there are a reasonable number of Finns who have been paid pensions and who own housing, so that it is likely that considerable amounts of money over time will then have been left untaxed. Fortunately, this agreement will change the situation. In all these situations, too, the interest income and proceeds of pensions can be taxed, and this will increase tax revenues for Finland. Of course, this will have some positive effects on central government finances, but it is also important for individuals and businesses that double taxation can then be prevented in the future. Of course, it is also hoped that this Portuguese agreement will be brought here as soon as possible. If we simply do not come to a good agreement in the negotiations, then I think that it can also be terminated as an inadequate tax agreement. This is, of course, a terrible question of justice, that these agreements can be updated to this day. Unfortunately, however, we still have some such double taxation, for example: Between the Nordic countries and, of course, now that the large age groups in Sweden are retiring and perhaps want to come back to Finland, I hope that the Minister of Finance will also take their situation into account, making it easier.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u64	Madam President! This agreement with Spain is very good and worthy of support. This will clarify the situation for people who really want to live there — everyone can choose their place of residence according to our constitution — and get rid of such an uncertain situation. I also see it in the way that, during this public debate, the guilt of these people — who have moved to those warm countries to spend their retirement — will also stop and there will be fair agreements whereby taxes will be collected. And I hope that this agreement will be reached with Portugal too, so that no one will have to talk about tax evasion for that country, or then about a situation in which there is no legal agreement. This tax procedure is based on the model of the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which is an internationally accepted procedure and an excellent one. Mr Kulmuni mentioned this matter in Sweden. It would be of tremendous benefit to Finland, because so many Finns have done their own life's work there. In time, if I remember correctly, half a million people have worked there. I do not remember exactly what kind of tax agreement is in force, but such a similar procedure should be achieved. Of course, Sweden does not like to see it because it is a big economic issue for them. In other words, I know that many people have come back from Sweden to Finland to spend their retirements, that is to say, even this matter when it comes to what this agreement with Spain is, that would be a very good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u65	Mr President! As has already been said in this Chamber, this is an extremely welcome proposal. During the last term of government, negotiations were started to reform the tax treaties with both Spain and Portugal, and now we have this Spanish tax agreement on the table, and we expect, of course, for Portugal too, then this issue will be brought to an end. Tax evasion as a whole, tax avoidance, is a huge problem at European level. Of course, this issue we are dealing with is only a small part of this whole, but this whole, tax evasion, tax avoidance in Europe, is a huge problem: we are already talking about losses of around EUR 1000 billion to public finances, and we are also talking in Finland about significant, billion-dollar losses to public finances when we talk about this whole. It is a good thing that this proposal is now before us, but instead the other government action on this whole has not been very good or excellent. Last autumn, the government proposed, among other things, cuts in the budget for combating the shadow economy, the Code of Administrative Registers and the Law of Effective Repentance, all of which would have facilitated tax evasion as well as tax avoidance and the informal economy. When Juha Sipilä has stated — and he said here a short time ago that selfishness to evade taxes already exceeds the level of sickness in Finland, I agree with what he said — the government's actions in this regard have not been in line with his words. In other words, in addition to this proposal, we expect a much stricter approach from the government, which seeks to tackle tax evasion and tax avoidance and continues the previous government's approach, which has repeatedly drawn attention to these issues. So this proposal is a good one, but it is by no means sufficient, and now we expect the government to take action to put these things in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u66	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u67	Mr President! The proposed amendment of the law obliges Finnish financial institutions to explore more extensively the tax residence of their customers and to provide their tax income and wealth data to the Tax Administration. The proposed changes will allow the launch of a large-scale automatic exchange of information on taxable income with Finland and other countries. By means of automated exchange of information, Finland would receive information on the assets and incomes of persons resident in Finland that affect the taxation of persons residing abroad. As a result, revenue that has previously not been taxed may become known to the Tax Administration, and thus more money can be made available to the State to fund welfare services. The proposal is a step in the right direction to increase the transparency of tax information and to combat tax evasion. However, it remains to be seen how well the exchange of information will work. In any case, it is great that steps are being taken in the world to combat tax evasion and the shadow economy. The proposed amendment of the law is good, but not sufficient. The following steps in the direction of tax transparency should be to limit the interest rates on intra-group loans in order to address transfer pricing and to introduce country-specific tax reporting. The country-specific accounting requirement would force multinational companies to show openly where the result will be generated and in which country the taxes will be paid. country accounting would be an important step towards an open and fair tax system. Unfortunately, the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, in particular, has taken the initiative for country-by-country accounting. But I would like to know from the representatives of the government parties present what the position of the government is now in the country-specific accounts, as the rest of the world is taking steps towards transparency and fair taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u68	Mr President! I am not repeating myself and previous speeches, but this bill is proof that Finland is no longer on the frontline of tax evasion, but follows the line outlined by the OECD — and it is good that it is. Tax evasion internationally is such a big problem that it requires international solutions. International tax evasion takes up to EUR 2000 per EU citizen from European countries. In Finland, it is estimated that tax revenues of EUR 600 million will not be received. Open exchange of information is an essential element in the identification of criminal tax evasion and in the capture of criminals. When it was known that the exchange of information would significantly increase the risk of being caught, it was very strange that the Sipilä government was in a hurry to provide a bill of amnesty for tax evaders. The consequences of a million - dollar tax inflows would have been almost nonexistent. I'm glad they pulled it out. I hope that the Finnish Government will give its full support to the European Commission's tax avoidance programme as quickly and convincingly as possible and will act in favour of its swift implementation. Now the government has the opportunity to show that tax evaders are not the cause of its heart.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u69	President! This so-called FATCA legislation goes in practice by obliging financial institutions to identify their own customers and, once they have identified their own customers, it also identifies their domicile and sends information to their home country on 31 December. the balance in the account of its financial institution. And now the home state can do so when it is considered that the balance of the account has changed between years, that is, there has been something added to the account, that then it may be asked of this client why you have come to this account with more balance. Only this kind of summation information will be provided to the home state. Well, then, of course, there will be a possibility of information, which means that the home Member State may ask the financial institution where these amounts have come from, whether they are dividends or some other income. It must therefore be said that, with this FATCA legislation, this banking secrecy, as we know it in general, is also about to disappear. In my opinion, this is very good legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u70	Madam President! The Government's proposal to the Parliament to amend the Tax Procedure Act is very good and well-founded. Here one can say that the common European interest is that we can go to the level of exchange of information that makes tax evasion as difficult as possible. I doubt we will ever get into a situation where tax evasion is completely impossible, but every euro that we can get from there to tax, every income stream that leaves something for the common good, is a good thing. What the European Union should pay more attention to in this European Union and what the European Union itself should be negotiating with, for example, the United States and then with the players in the Far East, is that we should be able to tax the financial flows, the investment world by the means that this much-speaked financial transaction tax can be regulated so that these various instruments on the stock market, with huge amounts of money and also huge amounts of risk, can also benefit from a small slice of the common good.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u73	Let me remind you that here we're also calling each other in interlude.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u74	Mr President! I was happy to listen to Mr Hoskosen's speech just now. It is absolutely excellent if the representatives of the government parties believe that Finland should be involved in this preparation of the FTT and that such a tax could even be introduced, because in the past there has been a signal from the representatives of the government parties, in particular perhaps from the point of view of the coalition, that they do not want to go ahead with this preparation and that there is a great deal of doubt about this tax, that it should not be introduced. But I am delighted to welcome Mr Hoskonen's speech, and I very much hope that the government parties will now take the matter on their own agenda and get proposals on this issue as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u75	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Legal Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u76	Madam President! This proposal proposes amendments to the chapter on the consequences of the loss of criminal law. The proposed amendments would implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the freezing and confiscation of instrumentalities and proceeds of crime in the European Union. The amendments proposed in the proposal would contribute to improving the possibility of confiscating property from a crime to the State. To clarify this: this has been possible in the past, but the changes now proposed would significantly improve confiscation. A definition provision on the economic benefits of crime is proposed to be included in the future law. In addition, provisions on confiscation of the proceeds transferred to a third party would be included in the law. I consider these points of the motion to be very important and the amendments are well-founded. The current law would also be amended to supplement the list of offences required by the so-called extended benefit confiscation, as required by the Council Directive. I believe that it is justified to complete the list of offences, as this will also facilitate the work of the preliminary investigation authority. This proposal also proposes that a provision be added to the future law on what constitutes a criminal benefit. It is rather unusual that this has not already been mentioned in the criminal code in force. The future definition will help to reduce the problems of interpretation of the concept of benefit. The definition of criminal benefit also sets clearer and more legally defined limits on the criminal benefit that could be converged. It is generally thought that the penalty for loss is punishment or at least additional punishment, but it is not. As a general rule, the confiscation penalty refers to the loss of property to the State without compensation for the offence. For example, a drunk driver or a person without driving rights may be seized by the investigating officer and the prosecutor and may require a court order to confiscate it, i.e. to lose it to the State. Such a confiscation order is therefore a public-law sanction of a crime. It is not a punishment but a protective measure aimed at preventing or preventing the proceeds of crime. For example, on average 30 units of drunk drivers are seized each year, while at the same time fewer than 20,000 drunk drivers are found in traffic each year. I think this is far too little. The proceeds of crime can be confiscated either by object or by value. In the case of a criminal offence instrument, the confiscation of property is a priority, but Article 8 of Chapter 10 of the Criminal Code also allows the confiscation of value. In this case, there is talk of value confiscation. For example, a part of a vehicle worth EUR 15000 could also be condemned, for example, to the State if the loss of the entire vehicle to the State was considered unreasonable. However, according to the information I have received, this has not often, if ever, been done. The state has always been convicted of either the whole vehicle or nothing. I also regard this as a major flaw in the Finnish legal system: a vehicle of little means is easily condemned to the state, but not a vehicle of wealth, even though the right should treat everyone equally. Madam President! Transitional provisions are not proposed in the draft legislation, since the application of the new provisions must take account of the prohibition of retroactive application of criminal law. I believe that this is the way forward, but in addition to the new law, at least the preliminary investigation authority needs guidelines. The law is an order, but the implementing instructions help to carry out the work of the authority. If there are no implementing instructions, the practice may be very varied, as has been the case, for example, with the seizure of the above-mentioned drunk drivers' vehicles. In some parts of Finland, vehicles are regularly seized from drunk drivers, but not at all. This is the fair treatment of citizens in pre-trial investigations and in court.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u77	Madam President! Indeed, this so-called conflict law, as the previous speaker said, is based on the EU directive and is in many respects very much to be desired and expected. It is indeed a protective measure: criminals are resourceful, often one step ahead. This development of legislation has a lofty objective of reducing and even preventing the exploitation and use of the proceeds of crime to finance new crimes. However, we have had very good legislation so that many aspects of the directive have already been taken into account in our national legislation. One loophole that has not been very well addressed so far is the different benefits of chaining up crimes, the funding chains. I hope that this law in its implementation and implementation can contribute to this. I also agree that we in our country would need a broader debate on confiscation, as regards the means of committing crime, in practice, by drunk drivers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u78	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u79	Madam President! I have strongly criticised this drafting of legislation, this process. I have repeatedly had to reply to the media and other questions why I thought this preparation was so bad. Well, there is an objection in this committee's report, which makes these details clear, but as the main weakness and deficiency, I think that, when drafting legislation at this level is normally done, that is to say, drafting legislation on such an important issue as the marriage institute, then the impact between the various ministries will be very much investigated. Now this preparation has been completely lacking. There have been frequent debates here in this Chamber, especially now during the autumn, on why impact assessments on various proposals have not been carried out. But now, for some reason, the majority here are going to go as if with a note in the eye and say that it is not so important now if these impact assessments have not been carried out, and this is, of course, a little puzzled, it is not even logical. Mr President! Finnish society is undergoing a strong change in values. I myself belong to the generation that, when I started schooling in 65 C.E., had two books in the desk. There was a hymn book and a Bible. They were not then considered to be the greatest threat to the child’s development in the universe, but were thought to be good, important basic elements. Then came the end of the '60s, the beginning of the '70s. The left-wing radical movement rose in Finland, the old one was conquered and a revolution of values was born. Religion was wanted out of schools at any cost, and suddenly God became a vice and all the values associated with Christianity, old - fashioned. Now, in the 21st century, the old, good, functioning organizations of the church have become extremists of the church. President! The only reason I mention these things is because this transformation of values is now so powerful. We have now gone to the breaking of this institution of marriage in a way that, once and for all, leads to results that no one yet knows what lies ahead of us. Since I believe that I still have this harvest for about 50 years to go, I hope to see it when we reap these bad fruits that result from these choices and decisions here, that one day it may be said that bad decisions were made on bad grounds. Madam President! I have objected to the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and I propose that these legislative proposals be rejected in their entirety.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u80	Madam President! This speech by Mrs Antero Laukkanen was excellent, as was the protest accompanying the committee's report, which includes representatives Antero Laukkanen and Laura Huhtasaari — thank you for that. What I myself attach particular importance to is the preparation of this law. When the citizens' initiative, on the basis of which the marriage law was subsequently amended, was dealt with, it was very widely stated that the preparation was incomplete, that various impact assessments, such as an impact assessment for children, were not carried out. Since the new government began to deal with these accompanying laws, these — which bother me — have, to a very large extent, been treated as just technical changes, and yet these include very deep changes in values. I am also disappointed that, when the government and Parliament are well aware that there is also another citizens' initiative in progress, which seeks to preserve the marriage between a woman and a man, and that citizens' initiative is also coming to the House this spring, it could not be expected that this whole foundation would be properly dealt with first and then, if necessary, gone into these details. This time again, unfortunately, no child impact assessment has been carried out. It has not been done in the Ministry, nor has the Committee on Legal Affairs been able to do so. And yet the most important, concrete effect of this legislation is on children, because it brings this right to adoption to couples of the same sex and thus will affect the lives of these adopted children in the future. It will also have a very strong impact on all adoption practices because there are countries that do not give children up for adoption if there is legislation in the country that allows adoption also for couples of the same sex. We are well aware that Russia has already closed these adoption faucets, and then many families in which a child could have a mother and a father will not be born because of this law. These legislative proposals will also cause a very confusing situation in the future. In other words, according to the proposal, a registered partnership would remain in force as an official form of partnership for those who have already registered their partnership. However, new registrations would no longer be possible, but there are already a number of different forms of partnership in the legislation, which are now still expanding. And the confusion with the situation brings the intention to register couples registered abroad in Finland, even though there is no longer such law in Finland. When seeking equal treatment, you may ask what this equality in practice is. This presentation also includes a very significant change in the principles of the Freedom of Religion Act. It is quite remarkable that now, with these accompanying laws of the law on marriage, it is as if on the wing a major change is being taken to the Law on Religious Freedom, which will not only apply now to these same-sex couples, but to all families. So the change is that a mother alone could no longer decide to join a child in a religious community if the guardians disagree. One can only imagine the situation that it leads to in many families where it is very difficult to agree on the child’s common affairs anyway. I have never heard my own criticism of this current system — at least not in the last 20 years of this Parliament — so that why do we want to leave now for this good practice to change, which has also been in the best interests of the child? I would also like to draw attention to this scope of the Fertility Treatment Act. According to the Fertility Treatment Act, a couple refers to a woman and a man who live together in marriage or in a marriage relationship. And this law does not now propose a change to the definition of a couple in the law. And I think this is a good thing. But I know that there is a great deal of discussion about this too. I fear that if these are taken through now, then we will see that this matter is being reopened again. In practice, this means that we continue to have fertility treatments limited to the marriage of persons of different sexes. In time, when the Fertilization Act was enacted, the Constitutional Committee stated that, given the medical purpose of fertility treatment to help persons who suffer from infertility contrary to their will, the draft law in which this restriction was made specifically for these couples, where both mother and father could be given to the same-sex couples, could not be regarded as unconstitutional in the view of the Constitutional Committee. I believe that this line is still the right one. The infertility of a female couple is not a disease. It is not a medical condition but a very natural condition. Two women can't have children with each other. Mr President! I am well aware that when a marriage law is spoken of, it is a very deep question of values and certainly this question is viewed differently in the light of these different values. What worries me in all of this is that, as can be seen from the discussions in this Chamber, the concept of marriage will continue to be fragmented in society. I believe that, for example, for those whose world view is shaped on the basis of Christian values, marriage is still a union between man and woman, no matter what legislation. And the view of various denominations and religious communities about marriage may also be very distant from that of the law. I do not think this is a good thing either. Mr President! I will be voting in favour of rejecting this motion tomorrow. But I am not going to use this actual statement of support, but rather leave it to a member of the committee, Mrs Huhtasaari, and she seems to be on the list pretty soon. But a very good protest, and good work has been done by these two representatives in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u81	Mr President! This is the second time we are dealing with this issue. This was also discussed last week. So it is indeed a question of adopting accompanying laws relating to equal marriage law. This equal marriage law was adopted last season, which is a good thing: it contributes significantly to the realisation of human rights and equality in Finland. And now we are dealing with these accompanying laws, which are linked to this already amended law. According to the proposal, a registered partnership could be converted into a marriage notice and the registration of new relationships would be waived. In turn, the Act establishing the sex of a transsexual would remove the condition that a person requesting sex confirmation should not be in a marriage or registered partnership. Among other things, these are the changes now brought about by these accompanying laws. As such, these accompanying laws, these changes, are very good, very worthy and I personally support them. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights also concluded that it is in favour of these amendments. However, the committee also drew attention to a number of points which are still problematic, even after the amendment of these accompanying laws, and I would like to highlight them here. First of all, one problem that remains here is that although a registered partnership can in future be converted into a marriage by means of a notification procedure, this same notification procedure does not apply to couples who are registered abroad, but should continue to apply to these couples in such a way that the couple should divorce and then marry if they want to change this relationship status into a marriage. This may affect family benefits, for example, in situations where the duration of a partnership is considered. So there was still a problem here, and the Committee on Legal Affairs also drew attention to this in its report. However, this is possible in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and, of course, it is desirable that this should be done as soon as possible. The second problem concerns the law on the strengthening of transsexual sex. It is good that the requirement of singleness is removed from this law, but there are still significant human rights problems in this law, which Finland has also received comments from international human rights actors. One of the key points is that transhumans are still required to be infertile, or sterilised, in order to strengthen the official sex. This, of course, violates the fundamental human rights of these people, it is still a flagrant violation of human rights in Finnish law, and the Committee on Legal Affairs also drew attention to this. It also drew attention to the fact that this law as a whole is also problematic, i.e. if, and hopefully when, this whole trans-law will be opened in the future, it would be good to renew it from the point of view of self-determination to a sustainable one. The third point I would like to raise here is the Fertility Treatment Act. There were still problems, and the committee also drew attention to these. So it is a matter of the fact that, in practice, a couple of women of the same sex cannot, in future, be treated as a couple despite this amendment to the law on marriage and the amendments to these accompanying laws. This, on the other hand, is a very difficult situation for children's rights, for example in a situation where the parent who gives birth dies in childbirth, i.e. the situation remains that the child has only one legal parent when, of course, we hope, he has two legal parents. This could also be corrected. This government could remedy this by bringing to Parliament a proposal on the maternity law that has already been prepared. It was already prepared in the Ministry of Justice during the last parliamentary term, but it was not brought to Parliament, which means that this government could only remedy this by bringing a proposal that has already been prepared to the Parliament, in which we could deal with it. In this sense, this would also be very easy to correct and, of course, it would be desirable for the government to do so. Here are some comments. Overall, these amendments to the accompanying laws are good — they already support the development that started last season with the adoption of an equal marriage law — but there are still many significant problems here within the law, and these will of course have to be considered separately. I hope, at least myself, that these will already be on the table during this term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u82	There were two requests for answers, representatives Niikko and Laukkanen. Let's take these first, and then we'll see more.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u83	Madam President! In this debate, you will see that this government proposal, as well as the citizens' initiative in the past, has been prepared very quickly without taking into account, for example, child impact assessments and these facts. I would have asked Mr Marin when, in your own speech, you used a great deal of these same terms, which have been mentioned here for two years now, and the fact that this amendment to the law on human rights, equality and equality will solve these problems: What is the issue of equality or human rights that continues to be the subject of the sterilisation model you mentioned for those who correct — with this terminology of yours, I would point out that the word corrects — gender? If sex is corrected, then does that not mean that a man is made a woman and a woman a man, and then he also has such qualities? In what way do you justify that a person who undergoes correction should maintain the standards of both sex, that is, the possibility of birth and the possibility of conception? It's not consistent in any way. Either it's a repair operation or it's not.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u84	Mr President! In committee we went through these things very thoroughly, and the atmosphere there was very respectful and constructive. I think that Mrs Marin has made an excellent point here, precisely what I emphasised in the committee, that this whole proposal is leaking like a sieve. In the opinion of almost all experts, each of its points was poorly prepared. I am glad that Mrs Marin so thoroughly described just how bad this law is. As I said in the committee: if I were in favour of what Mr Marin stands for, I would by no means pass a law so poorly prepared. But you want this law to come into force because you have the strategy of putting that 1,000 kilo elephant there. I mean, you know what? I mean, you know what? I mean, it's like, it's like... it's like, it's like, you know, it's like, it's like, you know, it's like, it's like, it's like, you know, it's like, it's like,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u85	There are a few comments here, Mrs Marin, Mr Hänninen, Mr Räsänen Päivi, Mr Essayah and Mr Meri. Here we go. Congressman Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u86	Mr President! We are actually sitting with Mr Laukkanen in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and we have dealt with this very thoroughly there, we have heard a number of experts, we have had a very wide-ranging discussion there, and I think that these legislative proposals, these accompanying laws, are very well founded. These are good proposals, but, just as Mr Laukkanen said, unfortunately they are not going to be able to correct everything in the world. Not all human rights violations can be remedied through these accompanying laws. Perhaps, in your own speech, you have mistaken this whole, because you are well aware that through these accompanying laws we do not get to grips with all these human rights problems, but they require separate legal procedures, whether we were talking about the reform of the transfiguration or about this whole issue of fertility care law, the maternity law. In other words, we cannot correct everything, but these legislative proposals definitely take this perspective forward and are indeed good. The Legal Affairs Committee did a good and thorough job here, which means that it is not a leaking sieve, but good proposals, but they are not enough; others are needed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u87	Madam President! As Mr Marin said, we are well on the way, but these are not, of course, sufficient measures, and we hope that, for example, the transfiguration will be reformed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u92	Madam President! Now that we have talked about human rights problems and legislation on strengthening the gender of transsexuals, it is good that we understand and concreteise what this means and why this condition of infertility is part of this legislation on transsexuals at all. If this condition of infertility were removed, it would mean that a legal man could give birth like a woman, or a legal woman could conceive and her mate would give birth. Here, if there's a need for those baby impact assessments. Yes, you can imagine how confused this situation is for a child, that he has a father who has given birth,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u93	Madam President! Indeed, here the words 'human rights' and 'human rights violations' have been widely used, and I have been thinking about this situation in the Member States of the European Union. Most of the Member States have the situation that we currently have in Finland, that we have separate laws, that we have a separate law on relationships for same-sex persons and then the law on marriage for persons of different sex. And I must say that I have never heard any claim that the human rights situation in Austria is worrying or that there is some sort of creepy human rights situation in Germany in this regard. However, in some way I think it would be worth thinking this way and seeing that in most countries in the world marriage is reserved for men and women and then there are these other legal alliances which have been able to guarantee, for example, the right of inheritance and other rights before the law. In that sense, of course, I would have liked Finland to have continued along this line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u94	The next few replies, Mr Meri, Mr Niikko, Mr Laukkanen, Mr Sarkkinen and Mr Marin, but then we will go on that list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u95	Mr President! Just a few comments on that legal parent and the preparation of the maternity law. After all, we currently have the opportunity to apply for a parent, so I do not think that there is a need for separate legislation. In other words, if a child is in the family of one of the guardians and has someone close to him and a parent may need someone close to him or her for an emergency, it is very possible. That Essayah made a good speech about what I have not heard either: that this is like a human rights violation. We've had a registered relationship between the same sex. I don't understand that anyone's rights have been violated here. The only ones whose rights may now be violated are the children. They're the ones who can't talk here. And I wonder when, during my short term, there has been a cry here for every evaluation and now there is no cry from certain people in the opposition at all, where there is an assessment of the impact of children. Kids can't talk themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u96	Madam President! To Mr Hänninen and Mr Marin, I would like to remind you that during the last period you were not yet here in Parliament to discuss — but you probably know it — that the Constitutional Committee, the Legal Committee and the Court of Human Rights have stated that the current law on marriage does not oppress anyone. The current law on marriage is not a human rights issue. It does not violate anyone's human rights. It does not violate equality or equality. So it is important for the legislator to be aware of what the current law is and not to mislead people by the fact that we actually have a legislative problem. That is not the point. After all, it is a matter of values and of auctioning values with two parties and calling for a different outcome in this matter. And then it would be honest to talk about precisely what is at stake. It is a question of value debate, which is what society we are building. There is really no legislative problem here and there is a need for this change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u97	Madam President! It was not quite Mr Marin's idea that I was misrepresenting something when I specifically told you, precisely from your point of view, why all the experts considered this law poorly prepared. I didn't do anything wrong, I didn't do anything wrong, I didn't do anything wrong. I told you exactly what it was. What I was particularly concerned about was that, in the previous period, when this law was criticised for being very badly prepared, this line continued in the Committee on Legal Affairs. One would have thought that the Committee on Legal Affairs would have learned something about this, but the Committee on Legal Affairs itself, after consulting all the experts during the last parliamentary term, decided to propose that this be rejected. And now the Committee on Legal Affairs, when the matter was re-examined and there were no child impact assessments, decided to accept this. There is no logic in that, and I do not understand what I have been misrepresenting. Maybe Marin will explain.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u98	And now, representatives Sarkkinen and Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u99	Mr President! Yes, it is a matter of value, and I see that this transposition of the equal marriage law and these accompanying laws, which are now being discussed, are driving equality forward in Finland. I understand that there are different points of view. Here we are in the midst of very profound questions of value. But I myself am very happy to be able to adopt these laws that will advance equality in Finland. Yes, there are many families in Finland who are very happy that the equal marriage law finally comes into force. Finland has received a number of comments on the inadequate situation in the transfiguration and its human rights problems, and I see that it will be extremely important in the future to remedy these shortcomings. I do not think that it is justified that if most countries in the world are badly affected, then there is no reason to correct them in Finland, but that we must strive for the greatest possible social equality for all people, both sexual and gender minorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u100	And the last response at this stage is by Mrs Marin. Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u101	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen: contrary to what you have just said, the experts heard by the Committee on Legal Affairs did not knock out these proposals, which we are discussing today, but defended them. After all, there was support for these amendments to the law, which we are now dealing with. On the other hand, there were also comments from experts on these very issues, which I have just presented in that toilet, which means that we will not be able to correct everything yet, and it requires separate legislative proposals for Parliament, such as the reform of the transfiguration or the reform of the maternity law on fertility care. In other words, contrary to what you claim, this is by no means the case. Then I would like to ask Mr Räsäs and a few other speakers in this Chamber whether you understand how insulting people in rainbow families sound when you are here criticising and assessing whether it is good for children of two families of the same sex to be or not. Do you understand that it offends these people? We have diverse families, we have different families, children who grow up in different families and grow up in good families. They are insulted by the fact that you are here telling them that this is problematic from the point of view of the rights of the child, that this equal marriage law is progressing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u102	Mr Räsänen, please, your name was mentioned, then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u103	Madam President! Of course, this whole subject is very skin-going, and I can well understand that this also inspires a wide range of emotions. But I think that there is also a need to speak for children here, for those who cannot make their own choices as to whether they can have their own life and family, both mother and father, or, for example, whether they live in the family of two women, two mothers, two fathers or two fathers. These kids don't make those choices themselves. For example, there is a very deep need for man to know his own roots and biological roots, and I claim that man has still not changed anything from the fact that he needs both mother and father.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u104	Let us now go to the list of speakers, as I have already said a few times. This is still an opportunity to have a debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u105	Mr President! I would now like to express my support for this objection that the legislative proposals should be rejected. There are things a person cannot decide or change, a man and a man cannot have a child together. Here is a very intelligent plan that only a woman and a man can have a child together, so in the background there is the idea that a man and a woman are the best role model and the best to raise a child. And no matter how good two mothers are, it doesn't remove the need for a man, because that's how biology works. I do not understand why biology is overlooked in this Chamber. Nor do I understand why the right of a child is being underestimated in this Chamber at the moment. This is all about the right of adults, not the right of the child. If we were really interested in children's rights, we would do those child impact assessments, but no one in this Chamber wants to take a stand on that. Moreover, there is also a question of values: they want to dissolve marriage in the sense that it would no longer be between a woman and a man. Indeed, the destruction of Christian values has already begun. After all, in the '60s the word God was no longer allowed to be mentioned, even in the '50s it could still be found. I am quite sure that we will also be discussing polygamy and other things in the Chamber, but that is the aim. I have already said at the beginning that this is the statement of support for this objection, and I propose that these legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u106	Mr President! I also have to say at the outset that I am in favour of rejecting this bill, even though I am a member of the government. Why is this so important that we now need to discuss this for the second time, when last week we were already debating it, why do we all have a lot of desire to speak for today? This is such an important direction in which Finland builds society. I do understand this point of view from the point of view that someone feels that they do not have the same equality or equality in getting married. I do understand it from such a human standpoint that some people have a desire to make a change and make this marriage accessible to all. But I do not understand that we underestimate the importance of marriage. However, if we currently have about 2 million people in marriage and in a registered partnership, whether they were now 6,000 or 8,000, it is so large. We should understand that marriage is in some way meaningful, a force that holds society together, a force that unites the family and is created for the protection of the child, including from the woman’s viewpoint. In that sense, the traditions and history are so long for this marriage that it is not justified in any way to scrap it with such legislation. Here I already mentioned and asked some Members of Parliament the question that, when we are legislators, we should know the law. We should know the law in that we do not give false evidence that our law must discriminate or discriminate against some persons. This is not really a problem. This has been made a problem because some have wanted it so. Secondly, I would like to highlight one aspect which I have not spoken about before. It is this government proposal in that the government’s proposal states that the determination of the child’s religious status will be changed. It is now the case that it is the mother’s authority to say if there is no consensus in the family, which religion a child may represent. This is so important that it affects the child’s education in early childhood education and school, it affects whether or not he or she gets into religious classes, for example. There has been a lot of talk here over these years that this bill, the amendment of the marriage law, is not out of anyone, but here too there is one small example of who this is out of. The Legal Affairs Committee has justified this amendment in such a way that this change is necessary because it treats different forms of family in the same way from now on. And this is justified by solidarity and equality from the point of view of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, with regard to decisions on matters relating to the child: together the family decides or does not decide. That is, in my opinion, a very bad argument. However, we have the majority of families as straight as normal families, almost everything in this country, and now in practice this means that if there are these fatherless children in the future, as they will continue to be in this society, then in practice the mother can no longer say that our children will then go to a normal religious class. Well, this sounds like a small thing, but this has far-reaching consequences. This has the consequences that we will begin to tear down this freedom of religion and freedom of speech in this country piece by piece. We no longer give a decision-making power even to the parents, to the mother in this case, but we want to transfer that decision-making power to a judge or to society. However, we should understand that now, if this law is to be adopted in the spring of 2017, in full, we face the fact that the church is likely to give up its right to marry. The church has no other choice. It is quite hypocritical here for any legislator to say that the church can make its own decisions. I claim that at the next moment, immediately, from the left wing, the church will begin to claim the right to abolish church tax if they do not come to marry persons of the same sex. This is a piece of elephant eating, as Mr Laukkanen said, piece by piece we will break all those obstacles in order not to make this society more liberal. Mr President! I would have liked the Finnish Parliament to take a different approach to such difficult, painful legislative changes affecting society as a whole. I would have liked the Legal Committee to have stood by the opinion of the Legal Committee in the last parliamentary term. In the last parliamentary term, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which I myself was involved in, discussed this issue, is that it is important to carry out an assessment of the impact of children on this issue. This was, among other things, one of the reasons why the Legal Affairs Committee did not approve this during the last parliamentary term, even though it won the vote in this Chamber. At that time, the Committee on Legal Affairs concluded that the assessment of child effects is based on the requirement of the Convention on the Rights of the Child to give priority to the best interests of the child in all decisions affecting children. A recommendation from the Ministry of Justice in this assessment was correct. In this Chamber, unfortunately, the best interests of the child have been left at the feet of the adult. The child’s best interests were not sought through a child impact assessment, but the child’s voice was drowned in our adult race cry about what was going on with me. It is unfortunate that I have to take part in protesting against a bill from my own government. I know it's the only option when it comes to children's rights to father and mother.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u107	Mr President! Congressman Laukkanen, when I went to school, and it wasn't too long ago, the desk was empty, without a Bible. Still, some values are timeless. A basic rock that does not sway or fall in the storms of the world. Everyone, everyone, has a world view — Christian, atheistic, nonreligious, or some other religion. Freedom of religion and opinion safeguard everyone, every right, in their world view. I respect those who are in favour of amending the law on marriage. I respect them. They have made use of their democratic influence, and with respect to this, this government is now presenting the legislative amendments required by the marriage law. In my view, it is logical that the will of the people, which has come with the decision of the citizens' initiative and then of the majority of the people's parliament, is thus respected. I respect democracy and Finnish law. But my world view doesn't change. For me, marriage is now and always an institution between one man and one woman. — You will see that I am conscious of the institution between one woman and one man. In this debate one party has managed to instill in the debate the concept of equal marriage — this is, of course, rhetoric — even though the law on marriage was already equal before this amendment was made. Any adult male and female could marry regardless of their background. When you look at history and some of today's societies, this is not a state of affairs everywhere: different restrictions are imposed on these issues and also in violation of human rights. In other words, our marriage law was already fully in line with the requirements of the UN Declaration on Human Rights. On 19 February 2001, Mr Vistbacka of the Finns of Peru spoke as follows: "This trifling tactics has worked amazingly well, and some people have still not been able or do not want to see the final goal of the law, which is an equal position with marriage." That is how Mr Vistbacka spoke in this Chamber, or whether it is said in that large Chamber when the bill on registered partnership law was discussed. Check the archives for yourself. Many representatives from different parties said that it is intimidation to talk about the fact that when registered partnership legislation is introduced, it would at no time result in a registered partnership law eventually giving equal status to marriage. Many warned against it at the same time that it would happen, and that is what has happened. Congressman Vistbacka is a far-sighted man. This is reflected, for example, in Mr Marin's request for new legislative changes. Of course, I would like to hear in more detail what these new legal changes are. Is this legislation not yet the famous equal marriage law? There is also a strong desire to change the family concept. This is not just a change in the marriage law as a whole, but a change in the whole concept of the family. I support the motion of objection and will therefore vote against the accompanying laws of the so-called marriage law. This is, of course, a tough solution from the representative of the government party, but some values are timeless, there is something permanent in a changing world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u108	Let us go to the list of speakers and then everyone will have the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u109	Madam President! Here I agree with those who have said that they will vote in favour of the rejection of these legislative proposals tomorrow, in accordance with this protest. That objection has been very well, in detail, gone through these six different laws and stated, which is why these legislative changes are not supported. Last week we came here in a very detailed but also, you can say, in a tone that respects one another, and I hope that, even today, although we have little emotion, this respect for one another will remain, and we will show that we are able to disagree civilly on matters. I also agree with what has been said here that it would have been good to have expected this genuine marriage citizens' initiative to come to Parliament before these accompanying laws were taken forward, so that then these legislative issues could have been dealt with in the right order. But at the moment we really do have these accompanying laws on the table, and tomorrow we will vote on them. Last week I went through a lot of these laws and now I'm really just going to sum up a few points from there. Perhaps the most important debate in this Chamber has been the debate on how these accompanying laws are not merely technical changes, but the effects of these laws extend throughout society to a wide range of areas, to the succession, to family law, to the status of children. And, of course, as has been mentioned here, legislative proposals in the administrative field of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which are apparently coming to over a hundred laws, are still awaiting their consideration. A lot has been said about the impact assessment on children, and in that sense I would just like to say, as has been said here, that the Ombudsman for Children and also the Ministry of Justice last season said that it would be good to carry out this impact assessment on children. And it is precisely a question of looking at all the issues that legislation and the economy, for example, will have to deal with. One thing that certainly should have been dealt with is how many countries will then close adoption in Finland from all couples. So there are several countries that do not allow children to be adopted for same-sex couples, and now this gender-neutral amendment to the marriage law will also close the doors of Finland. Well, second thing: the Freedom of Religion Act, which will change. This, in accordance with the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, was a little extra change, which is, in actual fact, not directly attributable to this need for a change in the law. That is quite clearly stated in that report. And yet this is the direction we have now wanted to go, and yes, this so-called positive religious freedom will be restricted, because it will increase such religious rootlessness and nonreligiousness and, in that sense, reduce its positive religious freedom. Then, on the third point, I would like to raise the issue of the Christian churches, which are currently doing most of the marriage ceremony. They have not yet formed a position on this new situation, and at the moment no church in Finland sees marriage in any other way than between a man and a woman. In that sense, this will be a great challenge for the churches as well as for other religions who will then have to take a stand on this matter. In the UK and Norway, when a corresponding change of law, or a change of law, was made into a gender neutral, it was considered necessary in these countries to underscore quite separately that this change of law does not in any way deprive religious communities of their doctrinal freedom and religious freedom as regards what they consider to be marriage and what they want, for example, in their own ceremonies to be joining together or blessing. I thought that in Finland too it might have been appropriate, for example, to have mentioned this in the report, because I can imagine that there might be a situation in which, for example, a person with the right to marry a church might think about this matter differently from perhaps his own church and then perhaps get the idea that he is going to perform such a ceremony. For the sake of legal clarity, it would have been important to record clearly, as has been done in Norway, that if the church does not have a liturgical formula for this marriage of persons of the same sex, neither is such a ceremony legally valid. This pressure was highlighted here in a few speeches, which will certainly come to religious communities when the secular and then the doctrinal views of the churches on marriage are separated. That pressure will certainly develop, and there are well - to - see situations in which either persons use their own freedom or there may also be couples who, as it were, test this situation and go on to ask for a marriage even if the church does not have a liturgical formula for it. Then, perhaps as a final point, I would like to raise this point, where this registered partnership really remains in that legislation as some sort of remnant. New registered partnerships cannot be entered into, but there are still people in Finland who are in a registered partnership and want to continue in it. So they see the marriage between a man and a woman and want to continue in a registered partnership, and of course it is important that this right is granted to them, but then, on the other hand, it comes to this situation that a partnership registered abroad is accepted in Finland, even though Finland can no longer register relationships after this law changes. On the other hand, in Finland, persons who have registered a partnership can simply use the notification procedure to transform this registered partnership into a marriage, whereas those who have entered into a partnership registered abroad cannot do so. And, as I recall, Mr Räsänen mentioned earlier that when this gender-neutral marriage law has used a lot of this word for equality, it does raise the question of these aspects of equality in this respect. We are also creating confusing legislation in this way. In that sense, I also agree with Mr Laukkanen's statement that all these hearings in the committee have highlighted the fact that this legislation has been adopted in haste and also in poor preparation and that there are many shortcomings which should not have been brought forward in this way. But as a Christian Democrat, I know that democracy in this house is speaking, and then tomorrow we will see in the vote how each of us will take a stand on these accompanying laws. Personally, I would have liked — and I appealed several times to the government — to have indeed dealt with this genuine marriage citizens' initiative before these accompanying laws were taken forward, but unfortunately the government did not submit to these requests here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u110	Thank you, Madam Speaker! It has been said here that other people find it offensive to disagree here. I think it is very valuable and important for people to be able to express their own views, their feelings and, in particular, their thoughts that go so far and it is not intended to offend anyone. At least I don't feel that I want to offend anyone, and I don't think there has been such an atmosphere here, and that's not the way to take it. We all have our values. Personally, I am not a religious person and I do not base my life on religion, but I also have certain fundamental values, and I understand that marriage to other people — and also to me — is a very important institution as a relationship between man and woman, which can only be possible for men and women. I have had a great deal of contact with people of different ages, especially older people, and they have wanted to know how I feel about this marriage between man and woman and about these accompanying laws. That has been a key issue for them. Even then I have told them that I would like to keep this institution separate, because the law on the registered partnership that we have had and currently have guarantees the same financial rights for married couples. I have not really seen why this was such a big political issue, why it had to be taken forward, as if it had been a human rights violation, as Mr Marin said. I've never seen it that way, but maybe someone will see it that way. On the other hand, we have not received any comments. I personally hope that we will talk about such difficult matters in the right terms and as it has been. No one has ever claimed that human rights violations have taken place in Finland in this respect. When you think about children, the best interests of the child and the impact of children, perhaps there is a human rights violation, if there is one in this drafting of the law. I am a little surprised: this autumn, for example, we were discussing subjective day care, and a lot of opposition representatives from the demos, the left and the Greens pointed out that the government has not carried out sufficiently comprehensive impact assessments on the position of women in working life and the development of children, and so away. However, there are very significant changes coming, but no one has asked for them. This law is coming into force on 1 March 2017, if this is adopted. There is plenty of time for that, so that this would have been a good time to think about it. I don't know why we had to do this so fast. Somehow I would see that this is a child's right to be forgotten by grown-ups around this issue, and let's see its own right and its own doings. For us, things appear differently, and they must be respected and appreciated. In that sense, I would have liked this to have been considered on a number of fronts. As a lawyer, I was wondering, as Mr Laukkanen has pointed out here, and as I remember Essayah, that there are issues of succession, matters relating to the custody, custody and representation of children, which may still be a problem. It may not even be possible to observe them all here, so that there would have been a need for such a broader assessment of what all these changes are, but when they have not been made, then we will not all see them, which I find very regrettable, because there is no need for life in this matter. It is always said that the laws need to be prepared in a high quality way, that in a few minutes it will not be a silly job, that these preparations have gone downhill. With regard to the right to adopt, I would stress that it is the right of a child to have a decent parent and mother, that model, and not the right of an adult to be a parent. As I told you the last time I was here, I'm childless myself — it's like this for me, and then I'm living with it. Furthermore, I would have told you what Mr Essayah also pointed out, that the churches will now be able to choose to exercise this right in the future. In fact, when I have been a personal writer of the Local Register Office and my work also included civil marriages, I have talked about this matter, that is when the resources will be directed at the Local Register Office. The Local Register Office is also undergoing a major change, and I have also taken this message to the Ministry to look at the possibility that some kind of registration fee could be made to cover these expenses. Now that this is being pushed forward with great pressure, as has been the case here, I hope those people will be supported then, if this payment comes into the debate and approval, so that if that pressure comes to the local register office then the payment will be supported and then there will be no objection, because then there will be a situation where there will be no resources for the ceremony. Finally, I would have said what I said in my previous speech: even today, the parent system provides the child with another guardian, so that it is not a problem at all. I would not go in haste and declare any maternity laws here, and there are no impact assessments of that either. There is an institution there at the moment, a child has the right to have an accompanying parent, that is no problem if such a need exists. I shall also state my position here — I am an alternate member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and I have already signed that objection, but I was not present at that particular meeting when I was at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I declare that I support it and will vote against these accompanying laws. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u111	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Please note that we are having a discussion on a subject with feelings and other things at stake. However, I think it is great that we are talking about big and important values here, and that is why I, too, got into this toilet, even though I had not intended to speak in the first place. I myself have also been a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and I see this as a very important step towards human rights and equality in Finland as well. Nor do I see a contradiction from the point of view of Christian faith. I myself am a church councillor for the second period, and if I mirror this also through my own values, then when it is always said that there are these three, faith, hope and love, and the greatest of them is love, so do I. I know there are marriages with love. I know there are marriages where it doesn't exist. I hope, of course, that in all marriages there will be and a lot of it and it will be wasted. I am also thinking of children, children in single-parent families or families, one of whom has died, or in families where neither parent is able to take responsibility for the children but the children are so-called lost. There are children taken into care, there are sick children, young people and parents. So what's in the best interest of the child? The child’s advantage is that all children in the world should live in a safe growing environment surrounded by love. That there would be safe parents, adults close to them that you can secure when it's difficult and even if it wouldn't be difficult. In other words, I see that this debate on the rights of the child should take place precisely from the point of view of the circumstances in which our children are growing up. It is not affected by what is the sexual orientation of the parent, nor by whether the child lives in the household of its one parent or two parents, but only by the circumstances, whether the loving adult is present. It's not always the biological mother or father. Many children have been adopted in Finland from abroad, of course also from Finland. It is known that it is no guarantee that when you have a biological father and mother, there is a good place for that child to be and live, although this is what we all wish for here. As a mother of five, I always think of my own children. I wonder whether I have been present every time I have been needed and what kind of character I am for my own children. I have to spend a lot of time away from home because of my work, and that, of course, is something I sometimes feel guilty about. I have luck, I have the other side there, a partner who takes care of the everyday cycle, but not everyone always does. And despite that, always the best interests of the child, that is what is the most important, priority one. Every other marriage, as far as I know, ends up in divorce today. Then what is the reason? I don't know. I haven't analyzed them. But I would see, even if it is forgotten in this debate that when we talk about equal marriage law, the starting point is that all of us, regardless of sex and sexual orientation, would have equal rights to marry. That is why I myself have supported and continue to support this during the last parliamentary term. There was talk of democracy and how important it is for us to respect and respect democracy. Nevertheless, for example, Mrs Elo said that she would vote against these accompanying laws tomorrow, although she respected the fact that during the last parliamentary term this first citizens' initiative adopted in the Finnish Parliament has progressed and that Minister Lindström of Finland has brought this Government's proposal and these accompanying laws to Parliament. I think it was quite a bold move, knowing his position on this issue during the last parliamentary term. But in practice and in concrete terms he respects the will of Parliament, which was measured together in this Chamber during the last parliamentary term. I hope that these accompanying laws will be adopted. And I also hope that the grievances and the issues raised in this previous speech by Mr Marin will also be initiated during this parliamentary term and will be dealt with now during this parliamentary term, as well as, of course, this issue of fertility care law. That it might actually be said that children would be equal regardless of whether they are born to a family of two parents of the same sex or to a family of two parents of the same sex. I would like this to be Parliament's common will.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u112	Mr President! Here, among other things, Mrs Räsänen and Mr Niikko raised the issue of the rights of the child. Well, I myself have grown up in a rainbow family with two women as parents, and I could, of course, spend a long time here with you discussing the status of a child, the rights of the child, the situation of children, the situation of families with two parents of the same sex, for example, but I am not going to do that, because we are not here today to discuss equal marriage law, but we are dealing here with accompanying laws relating to this marriage law that has already been adopted. It is therefore a question of technical changes to the laws, which must be made because the previous Parliament adopted an equal marriage law. It would be very special if we did not now change our legislation in line with this amendment of the law that has already been made. In fact, the reason why I asked for this intervention was simply to correct these misconceptions which may have arisen from this debate — first of all, what we are dealing with here and what we are voting on tomorrow. In a few speeches, the argument has been made that this legislative process with regard to these accompanying laws or equal marriage laws would have been rash and incomplete. Among other things, Mr Essayah stated that such a view has been expressed in the expert hearings. However, this is not the case. In the expert hearings it was not found that these very changes in the law or that amendment of the marriage law were rash. On the other hand, it was noted that a major mistake was made at the time when separate legislation on registered partnerships was introduced. In other words, when the legislation started to be differentiated, it has led to mixed and problematic situations. Now we are correcting these shortcomings, this situation. This is probably what we were talking about here in the Chamber when we were talking about hasty and inadequate drafting of the law. So if things had already been done well in the first place, there would be no need for this discussion. But we are now turning these accompanying laws in line with the already amended equal marriage law. In other words, it is now proposed to amend the law on marriage, the law on registered partnerships, the law on the Population Information System and the certification services of the Population Register Centre, the law on the strengthening of the transsexual sex, the law on freedom of religion and the law on fertility treatments. And here I am reading from this committee's report on the Government's proposal: 'The proposed changes are the result', i.e. the result of a 'already confirmed amendment to the law on marriage', which changed the provisions of the law to a gender-neutral form. So this is what it's all about. Amongst other things, it is proposed that it be changed in relation to a registered partnership that it can be converted into a marriage. This makes sense just because it would be quite problematic for us authorities to deal with a situation where everyone would be married separately. This notification procedure makes this easier in that sense, and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has also stated this in its own report. On the other hand, this law on the strengthening of the transsexual sex in relation to the abolition of this requirement of singleness is also being amended, and this is also a technical change. That, too, is very well stated here in the report. I hope you'll really get to know it. And then Mr Meri here said that Finland has not received any comments from human rights actors that there are human rights problems in our legislation. Well, that is not true. These shortcomings, including in the field of trans-law, have drawn attention, for example, to the High Commissioner for Human Rights at the European Council and to the special rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment by the UN. Therefore, Finland has received comments on these problems, which we have in the translation, for example, so what Mr Meri said earlier here is simply not true. I understand that there is a great need for Parliament to re-open the debate that took place last season, but that is not what this is about. These are technical amendments to the law so that this equal law, this whole entity, can enter into force at the beginning of March. That is what this is all about, and I hope that we will not continue this debate any longer as to whether or not an equal marriage law should be adopted, when it has already been adopted in the last period.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u113	Let us go to this list of speakers, and then we shall finish with the replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u114	Madam President! Congressman Marin's memory is a little selective. First of all, as far as this rush is concerned, it was quite obvious. These accompanying laws were issued in the summer, they were discussed at the Ministry, no referrals were sent to the parliamentary groups. In no way can I consider this kind of preparation even reasonable when not even the parliamentary groups are told what is being done. The Christian Parliamentary Group was accidentally informed of this when an active citizen sent an e-mail to one of our representatives and told us that you have heard that such and such changes are taking place. I can’t quite believe that Mr Marin thinks this is a good procedure, that during summer time, as if behind a tree, when everyone is on vacation, such important preparations are being made. Representative Marin, marriage laws are never technology, they are much deeper, far - reaching. Now that this proposal was being prepared, the Minister's representative told us that these changes are technical changes. They may be considered technical by a representative of the Ministry or by someone else, but marriage is related to the future of the child, and these enormous things — almost 200 laws and regulations — cannot be regarded as just technical matters. Then, when Mrs Marin mentioned the point that we were somehow criticising what kind of children are born in rainbow families or under what circumstances, whether they are happy or unhappy, at least I am not afraid to say anything about anyone’s family. Even in private conversations, I dare not begin to judge someone else's family life or form. It is a personal matter for every person, how he organizes his family and how his child is doing. But I can tell you that when I myself am a child’s home — not a father, not a mother in the first six and a half years — this fatherlessness and motherlessness, the disability, has been taken care of for the rest of my life. For me, it has caused a lot of big questions, which I have then found answers to in my discussions with various therapists and psychiatrists. For me, the idea that having no father or mother would not affect the child in any way is a stranger. Yes, we had enough love in the children’s home, there was a lot of love there — a good children’s home — but that lack of father and mother’s presence was a difficult equation. This is something that has been worked on with the wife in the family when I have some behavioral patterns for myself, which I do not understand, whose roots are then found in the absence of this model of father and mother. To such an equation, I don't think there's something completely neutral about a condition like that, a state of love in which different stages of development affect a person's personality somehow... Some families wouldn't have them, and others have them, I don't believe in that. All in all, so much of the expert hearings in the Legal Committee that, just as Mrs Marin and other representatives of the Committee have said here, most of the experts in the committee — not all but the majority — felt that this amendment and these proposals follow well the change in the law on marriage and are necessary changes to it, but almost immediately thereafter they moved on to the problems that this legislation and the proposal now have. But let me repeat that the debate has been good and proper. I understand that these valuable downloads are great here, and I myself am one of these men of the old covenant, and I regard that marriage between man and woman as the only real form of marriage. If someone wants another form of relationship, they have the right to do so, but the legal framework should not be created to create the conditions for the child to grow up without a father and mother.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u115	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! As has been noted in previous speeches, there are really different families and situations. However, we all may have more in common than those differences, at least that we all hope for love and care and that we are all concerned about families and children. That's what I'm happy about. The subject is sensitive, it is touching, it also goes to many personal levels. For my part, I would like to support the amendments to the law on marriage. The normal heterosexual family discussed in the debate is a very vague concept. After all, the concept of a nuclear family is very new. There have always been many diverse families and situations in the world. There has also been reference to biology. If you know any biodiversity, you know that many other species form family communities and even their genders in a very diverse way. Madam President! Thus, love, different family communities, life and biodiversity are the most natural things in the world. I support the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u116	Madam President! Of course, love and care are of primary importance in the life of both a child and an adult, but they are not regulated in this way. The ability of legislation or politics, as it were, to control love is rather weak. Of course, we can create the networks in which, as it were, the people who do not get love from their loved ones, but I would stress that this law, the legislation on marriage, is not primarily to give birth or deny love. This is where Mr Marin spoke above all about this drafting and criticism of the law, but I would like to point out here that, when this equal marriage law was discussed, the Committee on Legal Affairs itself, during the last parliamentary term, drew attention to the need to carry out an assessment of the impact of children before implementing such important legislative changes in family law. It is then said that the matter was raised in the committee's expert hearings and that the assessment of child effects is based on the requirement under the Convention on the Rights of the Child to give priority to the best interests of the child in all decisions affecting the child. Yet the parliament then approved that same - sex marriage, and that child - impact assessment has still not been carried out. In other words, it is really lacking in this legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u117	Madam President! Mr Marin has already left the Chamber, but I really would have liked to have sent him a message that these amendments to the accompanying legislation are certainly not technical. I think that if someone claims these are technical, then perhaps it is not really understood the meaning of marriage and the purpose for which it was originally put. But, Mr President, the more I read the government's proposal, the more I wondered how, on the contrary, such a confused proposal, which is far from equal and equal treatment for citizens, would normally be brought into this Chamber. However, we are in Finland, and the year is 2016. And as far as the chairman of the Legal Committee is concerned, I can only say that I am sorry that he has had to present such a government proposal in this Chamber. It does not in any way meet the criteria for good governance and preparation. It is confusing and, in addition, the government's proposal, as I understand it, contains outright errors. Oh, how many mistakes? If you read the text, at the beginning of the government proposal, point 2.1 states the objectives: 'to make the necessary changes to the legislation as a result of the amendment of the law on marriage'. Necessary changes. This government bill has been stuffed in one package of different things, some of which are certainly not necessary. In paragraph 3, the effect of the government's proposal is said: 'General. The effects of the amendment to the Marriage Act have been assessed in connection with the adoption of the law in Parliament." No, it's not. This was not the case when the marriage law was adopted last season. This is a mistake. I guess I should be honest with you that it's a straight lie. No child impact assessment was carried out, although the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child requires it and this Parliament also requires an impact assessment of children in other matters. Why was no child impact assessment carried out? I have asked it many times, but so far no one has given me an answer. There are still mistakes: 'This proposal only assesses the effects of implementing the additional provisions proposed in the proposal.' This has still not been done. Some lines can be read in the presentation, although it has been reported as an assessment of the economic impact and impact on the functioning of the authorities, but still not a word about the impact on children and their assessment. In other words, in line with the guidelines required by this Parliament, this government proposal should not have any preconditions to move forward. In my opinion, if this Parliament and the Members of Parliament value their own work and activities, there is no alternative but to reject this government proposal. Regarding registered partnerships, it has been written as such a general statement: "The concept of registered partnerships was created in due course precisely because couples of the same sex wanted to give the same rights and obligations as married couples." That's right. That's right. That's right. If necessary, the concept could have been supplemented by a marriage of partners or agreements, but not. They wanted to start defining marriage in a whole new way. Marriage has always been an institution between men and women with a much broader and more significant purpose than just formalizing human affections. Well, it was said, it was assured that marriage and its framework would not change in any way, but, as we are witnessing, this is as far as the time goes when it can be said that it is going to be quite different. Marriage is made by marriage law, marriage is required, witnesses are required, a promise or an oath is given in the presence of the Witnesses, and then marriage is declared. But according to this government’s proposal, all the above elements are being questioned, although in relation to the Witnesses, the promise, the dedication is still required. But, for example, those in a registered partnership are required only to report to the Local Register Office and, without it, to marry. I'm asking you what right it is. If marriage is not considered to be anything more than a club to which you can register, why did minorities actually begin to drive change? Different ways to marriage — is it fair, is it fair, is equality a reality? It's definitely not gonna happen. In other words, even these equality barriers, which have been marketed to us in order to push forward the government's proposal, are not going to happen. And that's not all. Marriage can also be entered automatically — believe it or not — not only without marriage, witnesses, promises or oaths and marriages, but also without notice, quite automatically without even a notice being required. In other words, if a person is in a registered partnership and goes into a sex change process, then — I quote directly from a government proposal — “in the event of confirmation of a gender, the registered partnership becomes a marriage without any measure and the change is entered into the Population Information System.” So not only did the definition of marriage, but also the demands for it were changed, but they too will stretch and drink according to the situation, depending on who and the basis of which wants to marry. So much for the honorable marriage that both gay and lesbian couples wanted to be involved in. In relation to the gender change process: It is also interesting in the Government's proposal that the consent of the other party to enter the gender change process has been considered as a condition for those in a registered partnership. This is proposed to be changed so that the other party consents to the marriage of the couple, but if the person is married, it would not even require the consent of the other person at all, but proposes, again, a direct quote from the text, in Finland in 2016: "However, the register office must inform the spouse of the sex of the married person. This ensures that the knowledge of sex confirmation always becomes known to the spouse." So this is the text of the government proposal and not of any joke book, although it seems more like the text of the joke book. But seriously: Apart from changing the routes to marriage — far from being equal — several routes are opened to marriage. Furthermore, the special status of persons who have married is no longer appreciated, the fact that it is these two persons who have made a promise at the wedding ceremony in the presence of the Witnesses, but that the spouse is unilaterally entitled without the consent of another to change his or her sex, and thus the proposal also breaks the marriage inside the marriage. Matti may turn into Mary or the other way around, but it doesn't matter, the concept of marriage stretches and drinks. There's not much left of the original. The gender change process is a long, complex process and has many kinds of paper. It is entirely logical and in many ways, both for the change process and for the spouse, to be reasonable and fair that the person entering the sex change process is not married or in a registered partnership but will enter into an official relationship after the sex has been confirmed. I still have a lot of text here, but I can see the clock's ticking. As I said, if the MPs in this Parliament value their own work and good lawmaking in the name of equality, justice and equality, then I think there is no alternative but to reject this package and to reconsider the way in which fair laws are laid down for all and the human rights of all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u118	Madam President! I will not support the government's proposal, even though I am in the government. Last season came this gender-neutral law and, as I recall, when the season began, it was only worth a small part of Parliament, but when that propaganda took place during that period, this law went through. That's what we're doing in this room, men and women, so we can't keep up with what we've left. It's about this child's right. It's about the child's right. If you think of the fact that there are a lot of these custodys these days, that two men, hairy men, just pick up a child and adopt it, what is the future of the child there? I can't. I don't even want to imagine that. I'll understand if these two hairy men have that child together, please. But get out of there and grow what you grow up in — I don't understand about things like this, this is a completely unnatural job. Then legislation will support it here. This government proposal is not to be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u119	Madam President! In the course of this debate and previous discussions, the views of this amendment to the marriage law have been very diverse. I would like to emphasise once again that the changes that are being discussed are certainly not just technical, but very deep values and changes, for example, in the area of freedom of religion, which will affect not only the situation of families and children of the same sex, but all families where these choices have to be made. I am pleased that more representatives of the government parties have also said that they will vote against these laws tomorrow and against this bill. I am delighted with this courage. I would like to remind you that this is a matter of value and, traditionally, in this Parliament, for example, that freedom of conscience has prevailed in these issues of value concerning marriage, i.e. everyone has the right to vote on the basis of their own values and conscience, regardless of the position taken by the party. That is something I would like to encourage everyone to do tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u120	Madam President! This debate on amending the law on marriage is something that I think should have been much more carefully considered. For my part, I cannot support this bill and I will be voting tomorrow. Just a couple of reasons. Firstly, I believe that marriage is the basic structure of society, the cell on which everything must be based. It is a millennial tradition, based on the doctrines of Christianity, and I do not think that throwing those things in a scrap heap is fit for my conscience, but nothing. I think that we are making a mistake here to imagine that we are valued liberals, but sometimes I really feel that there are values. But I am not going to go any further to reproach anyone who disagrees on this matter. I respect the freedom of opinion and the freedom of every person to choose which button tomorrow's vote will weigh. However, I am saddened that these fundamental values of society are being thrown away in this way. I don't think that's a good idea. I would therefore like to take into account what the representatives of Päivi Räsänen and Sari Tanus have just said in their own speeches about taking account of the status of the child. After all, it has been a tradition in Finland for decades, for centuries, it is said in the last century that Finland has been an independent state — we are about to turn a hundred years — that it has always been the responsibility of the Finnish State to stand on the weaker side, to support the weaker and his legal position, and the child in this matter is the weakest vessel. I very much regret the fact that this matter has been completely ignored and the assessment of the child's position in this situation has still not been carried out, as Mrs Sari Tanus well described in her own speech. That's all. That's what I would have expected, too, but I think it's, unfortunately, too late. Once again, Madam President, I cannot accept such a law and the fact that fundamental values of society are being thrown away in this way. Tomorrow we will vote on this. I just hope that Finland will be able to cope with the challenges ahead. It is not good, in my opinion, for old fundamental values to be thrown away.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u121	Madam President! Indeed, in this very detailed description of Mr Tanus, it was very well pointed out that, in fact, this proposal is about lowering the value of marriage. I only raise one point here when the text itself says this: 'The proposed notification procedure must also be supported, because it is simple and easy for the parties as well as for the authorities and does not require additional resources for the local register offices. In this context, allowing a registered partnership to be converted into a marriage option would instead require an increase in the resources of the Local Register Offices, which the committee does not consider justified in the current weak state of the economy." So, as it were, economic priorities are raised above marriage. It only describes what this spirit is: Marriage, well, what kind of marriage? What society needs marriage? Well, all societies need marriage to stay together. And, as the speaker who spoke very well here said, this kind of institutional collapse should not happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u122	Madam President! I wanted to go back to this booth, now that I finally got here, even though I was here early in the evening. As is often the case with these things, attempts are being made to put them into the wheel. I understood that in the past there had also been a kind of debate on these forthcoming legislative amendments or proposals. I wanted to continue with a few words on this process of gender change. Instead of moving forward with this process of sex change, I would see that much, much more should be invested in identifying and managing the traumas of the background, often very deep and distant from childhood. Unfortunately, gender changes are partly used to deal with other problems or problems. This is demonstrated by many who regret sex change and, as far as possible, seek to change it back. Many sex-changers have been waiting for balance and well-being since then, but it is not there, but a variety of symptoms continue. That is why I would also like to emphasise and point out at this stage that it is particularly important, especially in the case of young people, for their well-being, to find and treat the real causes of symptoms and feelings and not go into the process of sex change, which certainly does not provide the assistance expected of many of them. I would also like to underline the fact that this gender-neutral marriage law and the accompanying laws now under discussion and their implementation have been seen as human rights issues, and this has been marketed to us as a human rights issue, that this really is not a human rights issue. If I have a small firm and I wanted to be part of a big company, would I say that it is a human rights issue that I too have the right to be a partner in such a company? And so on many examples of this could be listed, but this is not a human rights issue. Every human being has human rights. Every person has a right to feelings. Every person has a right to love, and as a Christian, I would say that every person has a right and opportunity for a love far greater and deeper than most people have today. I would say that we should invest in the well-being of human relations, in a better understanding and so on. We are talking about human rights and welfare, but these accompanying laws are certainly not a human rights issue. It's in the best interests of It has been discussed many times, yet it is that the child has and must retain, primarily, the right, the opportunity for both father and mother. It is also a fact stated and strongly underlined in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. We all have half of Dad and half of Mom, no matter who raised us. And we all have a father, and we all have a mother, whether or not a father or mother is nearby. And if a child has already lost his own parents and there is an adoption ahead of him, it is certainly in the best interests of the child to have a family in which he or she is caring for and raising both a man or adoptive father and a woman, or adoptive mother. Does anyone have a heart for children and their well - being to deny this fact? And despite the fact that many have a good adoptive father and adoptive mother, however, many of these adoptive children have a strong longing for their own roots, biological mother and biological father. Because half of them have received from their own biological father and one half from their biological mother, the longing is so strong in many people that, at an age still, old age is trying to find a connection with their own biological father and mother. In other words, it is not right to make motherlessness or fatherlessness a child’s norm, primarily in the legal sense of children. Of course, many people can be a good parent, many people can be a good guardian, many communities and many environments can be a good guardian, but that is completely different from talking about their own father and mother and the child’s primary chance of doing so. Then a few words on freedom of speech and religion, although I believe that has probably already been mentioned here. The fact is that, with the adoption of a gender-neutral marriage law, even in Finland — not to mention what has happened in the world — freedom of speech and religion has already been reduced and, in particular, that those who support traditional values have already been put under pressure, have already been blacked out. Efforts have been made to limit our rights and try to limit them all the time by appealing to human rights, by appealing to equality, by appealing to what. It is important to note that freedom of expression and religion should be maintained and maintained in Finland also by those who support traditional values. We, too, who think of many of these legislative changes and accompanying laws and so on in another way, should have the right to say what we think. We should also have the right to raise our children according to our beliefs, according to what we have, according to what we think is right and best for children. In fact, I find this limitation of freedom of expression and religion confusing to hear some of the comments made by some Members of Parliament when they say that it does not mean anything to the effect that it is all about raising threats. I do not think there is a need to raise threats when you ask questions and listen to the speeches of Finnish citizens or read their contacts, not to mention what has happened on the other side of the pond in the United States, where the gender-neutral marriage law first came into force, and what has already happened in Europe in some countries. I do not know whether it is ignorance, that some say it would not affect freedom of speech and religion, or whether it would be a deliberate deception, but it has already affected freedom of speech and religion in the world, it has had such a negative effect here in Finland. That is why I would like the Members of this Parliament to stop and think honestly about what these accompanying laws are bringing to Finland, what they are about to adopt. And I would like to have the courage to look at things honestly and honestly look at what we have at hand now and what these changes would actually affect in Finland. And I would like to have the courage to vote tomorrow in the way that the facts actually tell me, and also in the innermost senses, it is right to vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u123	Madam President! As regards this government proposal, too, much has been discussed and opinions have been expressed, and history will then prove and state who should have been heard. But to this end, I would like to say for myself that the dismantling of these very good and long-lasting values for Finland and the Finnish people with such a fast schedule is, in a way, such a large-scale social experiment that we do not know how to see it. Of course, representatives will be able to see if a little history goes backwards as to how different nations have come and gone in this history of the earth. Yes, the fate of many nations has been at stake and, in the case of ruin, in general, when fundamental values have been demolished. But never before in the global world has such a fundamental value as the concept of marriage been touched. Not even during the Roman decadence, nor in any other social age, was society able to determine what kind of marriage should be, how it should be changed. Mr President! However, it must be said that the ultimate desire is to change the marriage by appealing to feelings and drawing images. We have also heard today from more than one representative that these are not constitutional issues, human rights issues or any legislation that corrects any other act that violates regulations, but this is a mere, purely imaged issue. Increasing the rights of adults undermines the rights of children. It is a reality and will be seen very quickly. Finally, I would like to say that Finland is committed to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, according to which a child has the right to maintain a family relationship and to communicate with his or her parents. With this legislation, changes to the marriage law prevent a child from meeting another biological parent, and that is the big problem with this marriage law. This distorts the equality of children and is unfair to children. This is a social experiment that is blind, and its tracks will be seen later.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u124	Mr President! In his recent speech, Congressman Tanus raised the avenues of this bill relating to the amendment of the law on marriage, which can serve as shortcuts to marriage, and I am also perplexed by those points. Furthermore, I believe that much more time and resources should have been spent already in the preparatory phase to assess the impact of children and ensure the rights and well-being of children. These are examples of the need to prepare these legislative changes in a much more thorough manner. Unfortunately, they now seem to want to push the legislative changes through in a hurry. Mr President! I would like to make my point. I am a supporter of millennia of the old traditional concept of marriage. At least, as far as I know, there are no religious reasons for my point of view, but it is a very strong choice of values for me. I am also concerned that the content of the marriage will be changed and its appreciation will be gnawed in pieces. I will therefore vote against this government proposal tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u125	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 12 February 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u126	Madam President! This audit report on election funding was discussed on Friday and raised these new points of view which could be taken into account in the future in relation to this election funding. Of course, this issue of election funding has already been refined over the last period and changes have been sought and more transparency has been sought. This is the key need for these changes. However, I would like to return to the Friday debate when there was a hard debate about the fact that there was a call from the Socialist side for a roof to be set for the funding of the elections. The idea itself sounds like a good goal, but in practice it does not necessarily improve this election nomination much. At the moment, every candidate can spend as much money on the election as he wants and also collects money on specified terms outside his own purse. In my opinion, transparency is a and a, not so much the amount of money spent. We are well aware of the fact that, with money alone, Parliament will not be elected in the elections. The candidate must also have something to say. The candidate must have confidence. Many former parliamentarians who spent tens of thousands of euros were left unelected. In the last election, especially if we look at these electoral declarations, there are several, several candidates who spent tens of thousands of euros, many more than EUR 50000. This does not mean that money can be used to get to Parliament. We must also have credibility in our own reference group, and unfortunately — and fortunately — money does not buy it. Mr President! I believe that what I want to repeat here and what I have said during the last parliamentary term is important. If we want to increase transparency, then we should definitely extend this obligation to announce election funding also to those candidates who are not elected to Parliament. It could also be extended in municipal elections to candidates who are not elected to the council — especially if the same candidates receive positions of trust in the municipality. We have in the regulation that only the first Deputy Member will have to submit that election money report, but we have a lot of candidates who will not get through and still have significant positions of trust in the decision-making bodies of the state. In particular, I do not understand the inconsistency that, in the municipal sector, where municipal planning, health costs and many other matters are being decided, even the chairman of the board is not obliged to open their election funding if they do not sit in the council. This would be a good reform from the point of view of transparency if we opened up all that money to our voters and thereby gain more confidence in our own work among the people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u127	Madam President! I should like to comment a little on this election statement and its transparency. I am absolutely in favour of this being transparent, but we are not jumping on the same line in the countryside and in the cities and so on. Take an example: One of the union’s lords from that trade union is going to run for parliament. His election campaign is practically paid for everything. If a man of habit leaves there like me, everything has to be done by himself and paid for. If you don't know what you're talking about, you won't be able to find those supporters. But those who go out of these organizations are behind the organization and pay for the violins. We're on a completely different line with them. And from that roof, I say that if anyone has a ton in his pocket to put 100,000 euros in it, let him put it, he will not spend the money of others on it. But those who spend other people's money very carefully must be brought up here what has been done. Now they're being held back very far.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u128	Madam President! I couldn't wait to take the floor. I think that Mr Niikko made an important point in that speaker's office by pointing out that those who have been elected to municipal councils, for example, might well be obliged to report on their electoral funding. Similarly, everyone who has gone to the parliamentary elections could also be obliged to report on their election funding, because I too have been thinking about the same thing: if a candidate from the major parties in particular stays in another reserve, there is nothing to say that during the parliamentary term, for example, because of the European elections or some other events, he would not rise to Parliament in the middle of the season. In that sense, I consider this current system to be incomplete, and it would be in the interest of all of us to make it as transparent as possible in terms of transparency and reliability. In this case, I agree with Mr Niiko that it could be extended to a much wider group than it is currently concerned, with the same comments made itself, and I hope that in the future all the candidates for the elections and candidates for the European elections, and whatever it is, the candidates for the municipal elections and for the elections, then this would apply to the announcement of the election funding. Not voluntarily, but specifically forced to do, duty.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-16-ps-8.u129	Mr President! I'm glad you're also a representative. Heninen of the Social Democrats noticed this. This is what was discussed during the last period that this transparency would increase and, unfortunately, this matter was forgotten in the box of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs or in whose box. This was the case in many ministers' speeches, but this reform was ignored. But there's always room for improvement. To this comment by Mr Hakkarainen himself: I would also like to throw my spoon in the soup, because this election support for the candidate by the trade unions in general is a good observation. It is no secret that some organizations support their own candidates very much in a way that is not announced in the election money announcement, such as, for example, by providing material assistance and also by providing such help during working hours for election work. And unfortunately, there are a lot of such organizations that recruit one and another employee during working hours to do the election work of others in a way that looks like it. Then there are these ways of providing election support for another, such as advertising grants through companies or some other state of publicity. I remember that in 2011 the elections in Vantaa still had companies owned by Vantaa participating in the payment of election announcements by some candidates. This was no longer the case in the last election. It was decided in the city that this will no longer be done. But how much more is there in other municipalities, for example through state companies to nearby communities — well, this must have become more specific, so that this should not happen anymore, but it is in a way possible to cover these a little further. In other words, if we use the taxpayer's money in particular for the election work of the candidate, it should be made clear, up to the euro, to the public. The best regulation would be that the taxpayer's money should not be spent in elections with or with the support of anything else, because it is certainly not the best possible for the electorate.
