ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u1	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u2	Madam President! The government's proposal to the Parliament on the approval of the agreement on air transport with Gambia and the law on the transposition of the provisions of the agreement in the field of legislation is of course important and to be welcomed, because we are an island, particularly from Europe. After all, this was a debate about state ownership policy a short time ago, and it is very good that the board stuck to the majority ownership that has been a long tradition in Finnair. It is very important for Finnish companies. At the same time, however, public debate has also taken place on the development of the entire national airport network, and the question has been whether the whole country's network of flights will be adhered to. I have not noticed that the corresponding minister or government parties have commented on and expressed views on these comments by Finavia's CEO, so that it would be good to hear the views of the representatives of the government parties on whether or not to continue to maintain contacts with the world from all over Finland. This is very important for our export industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u4	Madam President! In my opinion, this question raised by Mr Lindtman on the security of airports and air links in the country was very important today. And I think it was very important now that Mr Turunen spoke on this as a representative of the government party and also as chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, and of course I hope that the whole government could catch up on this, because in recent times we have unfortunately often had to talk here about what this current regional policy is: it is going in the wrong direction and there is a great deal of concentration in the various sectors. That is why I consider this speech to be important, and I would also like to see contributions and views from other government parties. There is perhaps a little promise here that this will be the case, that air links will be secured across the country, and I would also like to see a government which is quick to intervene and also takes a stand on the whole, because it is the President-in-Office, so that we must have viable provinces,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u5	It is important to take care of the entire national airport network, and as far as these statements by Finavia's CEO are concerned, I personally feel that they have been very much private thinking. We have an air transport strategy in place in the country, but on the other hand I hope that the government will consider whether this strategy can be updated at this stage. Air transport has a huge potential for growth in this country, as an example of which Lapland, where tourism grew by an enormous 15 per cent at the beginning of the year. Even so, we do not have sufficient comprehensive and good air traffic connections to this province, and this requires a national airline Finnair and airport operator Finavia to do. I was also delighted that the Prime Minister: On the other hand, Sipilä announced that the Government had decided to clarify this so-called Norwegian model, which would allow all airports to operate 24 hours a day if necessary. That would be a great improvement on the current situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u6	It is now quite a long way from the actual issue of the agreement on air transport with Gambia, but the next response, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u7	Madam President! There is an agreement on air transport with Gambia. We have talked about regional policy. I think it is important that air transport is taken care of in regional and national terms, but I took the floor because I hope that this debate will not be interpreted as including Gambia in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u8	Madam President! The Gambia agreement on air transport is under discussion, but now that the President also allows us to talk about the provinces, then we will talk about them. By Gambia's side Kuopio is also important, I was just visiting Customs. Helsinki is, for example, a major crossroads city,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u11	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u12	Madam President! Whether it's going to Gambia or coming from Gambia, it needs ground control. Last season, regional air traffic control was driven down forcefully in this country. We have lost Rovaniemi Regional Control and Tampere Regional Control, and all regional control operations will be concentrated — if not centralized — at that Helsinki Airport. I would just like to remind you that it takes 15 minutes from Kaliningrad to Helsinki Airport. In my opinion, this is something we should be asking ourselves: is it reasonable that we only have one civilian control station in this country? And I also know that Finavia has plans for air traffic control to take care of robots, i.e. cameras at airports, and their main location will be in Estonia. I believe that this is something that these people, who are sitting in this Chamber and who are considering, among other things, the security issues of the country, should pay attention to. After that, if, for some reason, our air traffic control is paralysed at Helsinki Airport, there will not be a single plane leaving here, not Gambia, not Brussels, not Stockholm, not Rovaniemi, not even Vaasa — but there will not be a single plane landing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u13	Madam President! The Finnish Social Democrats have sometimes been accused of lack of innovation, but when you listen to Mr Lindtman's opening speech, there is no shortage of creativity: when you talk about a fence, you talk about stakes. But when the President allows it, then we will talk about it. Yesterday I met the Japanese Ambassador to Finland, and Finland and Japan have had excellent relations. In 2019, the 100th anniversary of official relations between countries will be celebrated, and the Ambassador particularly raised Finnair as one of the positive things that has worked well in their relations, but rightly expressed concern about the decisions that Aalto University and the University of Helsinki have taken in relation to the teaching of Japanese language and culture. Of course, the government does not directly impose such things, but this is also linked to this air transport, with the presence of a large number of Japanese passengers. It is important that the Japanese language teaching in Finland should be very strong, and that is why we are asking a written question with the Socialist MP Ville Skinner about how the government can contribute to supporting Japanese language and culture in Finland, which is also related to air traffic through the fact that Finnair's one important strategy is precisely to act as a hub for Asian route traffic, which has been very natural and, as has been said, a good milestone in relations between us and Japan. Now, in the case of Gambia, I was thinking of Mr Lindtman's opening of the workshop, so naturally I would like to raise the issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u14	Madam President! Now, hopefully, we will get to this point in hand, namely the government's proposal for the approval of the agreement on air transport with Gambia and the law for the implementation of the provisions of the agreement in the field of legislation. This is therefore a bilateral agreement between us and the Gambia countries on air transport, and the implementation of this agreement is a good support to our government's leading project to streamline legislation. The agreement promotes competitiveness by improving the conditions for business and entrepreneurship and opens up new opportunities for air transport between Finland and Gambia. Regarding the impact of the proposal, it is expected that air traffic between Finland and Gambia will continue to be limited after this, and therefore the agreement will not have significant short-term business effects, and Finnair Corporation welcomed the aviation agreement and considered that the agreement will contribute to the liberalisation of international air transport. We visited Africa a moment ago with the delegation from the Committee on Finance, and this is a good way of opening up the link that is needed with these various African countries. And I personally hope that such agreements will be created and opportunities opened up. Unfortunately, at the moment, many, many other countries are also much more active in Africa through business. And there would be opportunities for us in many countries too, and this type of agreement is particularly welcome to support this development and open up new opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u15	Madam President! Although the title indeed states this legislative agreement with Gambia on air transport, the debate has also raised the issue of national airports. I do wonder what the Socialist Group has become if there is, however, a Gambia issue. But of course we are prepared to discuss it and we can respond. It is true that in 2011, for example, there were 100,000 passengers at the airport in my own country. This year it has halved because Finnair has halved the shifts there, and yet they insist that there should still be 100,000 passengers. I would, of course, like to see that corporate governance used earlier. It is true that Finland is lagging behind in the Nordic airport comparison. We have far fewer international direct connections than our neighbours, and it would therefore be terribly important for these to be created all the time and also for this kind of cross-border traffic. Is it really necessary for everything to have to go through Helsinki Airport when people would also like to fly directly to northern tourist destinations? That is why it has been great to see that new direct air links have been made in the major cities of Central Europe. However, it is a bit surprising that even in this winter, tourism growth rates are up to plus 15% in the north, but air travel has not increased in the same proportion. I do hope for such a holistic approach. Ownership is certainly being used by this government, so that we will continue to have an extensive network of airports throughout the country and will not be subjected to such intimidation, as is the case with the demos.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u16	I would now urge the Members of Parliament to stick to this very subject. It's appropriate for the dignity of this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u17	Madam President! The Government's proposal on air transport with Gambia is very welcome and a good one. It would be extremely important to create such bilateral agreements elsewhere and thus to develop our air transport and create opportunities for growth there. However, I would like to highlight Mr Tolppanen's view of this air traffic control and regional air traffic control. It is quite clear that if such bilateral agreements are to be maintained and air transport is to be maintained, we must ensure that air navigation and regional air traffic control work. But in this context, when considering these matters, it must be considered that this is not only an economic issue but also a security policy issue. And in this respect, it is certainly appropriate to consider now that Finavia's guidance is transferred to the Prime Minister's Office whether these air navigation functions and regional air traffic control should be completely removed from Finavia's operations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u18	Madam President! I'm sure this downtown rhetorical moped is starting to get really out of hand right now. So there has been a public debate about this airport network in Finland, and I ask the government parties if there is an assessment of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u21	Madam President! It is likely that Finland will have more than a hundred similar agreements with different countries than is the case here. All major destination countries must be, because air transport is two-sided. Both contracting countries are demanding landing times for their own companies, slots. In that sense, it is established practice that the countries first agree on an agreement, after which the airlines then do what they find to be good for each other. In case traffic increases or there are other interests in Finland, the Finnish State has tried to conclude agreements with all potential parties, different countries, up to now. The main reason for this is that Helsinki Airport in Asia is highly competitive, as long as Finnair has an overflight licence, apparently as the only Western airline, and so it is worth maintaining this monopoly position, and when other companies may be able to send a passenger, it also has indirect advantages for Finland. But that air navigation and air traffic control has mainly been concentrated in Brussels by means of the EU agreement; regional air traffic control has remained here. In this context, however, the negligence or weakness of the Finnish authorities caused significant increases in the costs of Finnish air traffic control, which indirectly undermines the operating conditions of regional airports.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u22	President! In the 20s to 30s, the fire bearers taught us that the doors were open to Europe. Indeed, the doors have been open to Europe, perhaps even at the expense of other continents being reduced. In that sense, this agreement with Gambia is extremely important, as has been said. Africa’s importance will grow in many ways. As such, this debate is a little strange now, and it comes to mind that some sort of sunburn of Urpo's day has now come to several Members of Parliament. Even when Mr Arhinmäki spoke alongside Gambia, the representative of the province is wondering what the early summer is now in the hands of the delegates. The development of regional air transport itself has been hit hard by us. For example, it was in Kuopio last winter that air connections were weakened, which had a rather paralyzing effect on international connections in particular. It is also unfortunate that international connections are only recorded from Helsinki Airport. For example, while there are numerous companies in our province whose sales cannons move around the world and contribute to our common cake growth, this advantage, the advantage of building a common good that is produced from the provinces, is too one-sidedly registered only as the production of the capital region.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u23	Mr President! I thought that it is only fair for Members of Parliament to be able to speak in general with whom air transport should be agreed, to which Finland should fly and to what funds should be spent. I regard it as a rather unhealthy phenomenon that when we talk about, for example, social welfare issues, even individual social security issues, that debate seems to be very broad. But it has to be said that Africa is a holiday destination for new opportunities — even though there are still a few of these tour operators in Gambia at the moment, and I think that this tour is actually only for the winter season, it is nevertheless good to have taken up the fact that the agreement with Gambia on air transport has been reached. And in this regard, although there has been very little air traffic, I am pleased to welcome our active efforts to find these new destinations and new opportunities. From the point of view of business, this may also open up new opportunities for Africa on its side. Of course, Mr President, the starting point may be that when there are probably some 50,000 people in that capital Banjul, the Finnish parliamentarians are interested in that, if you fly there too — to a capital of this size in the world — why not fly to much larger cities in Finland in the future. And that Finavia's activities have been unthankful and also untenable in that respect. I cannot understand in any way how, however, Finavia can make public statements on how to fly from below Central Finland. And this regional thinking, with which they came to the public, tells us that it is possible to fly to Banjul, Gambia, but then there would be no flight to Finland. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u24	Madam President! Gambia as a country is quite small in West Africa, and perhaps that potential is long-term away to be seen. I think it is important that this debate took place on such a warm day. I'm glad there was a vision. The meeting became supportive of this majority ownership of Finnair, and as the discussion progressed, it became apparent that the Finns also expressed their support for this agreement. In this way, too, we will be in close contact with the Islamic Republic of Gambia when, however, there is a future for Africa to develop. Although this location for the development of Africa is not as good for Finland as it was with the Asian Eastern miracle, we must now consider the strategies with which we are already looking to the future to see how we are going to attach ourselves to the global megatrends from which we have to tear the bread.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u25	Madam President! It is very important that Finland has air transport agreements with many different countries. At the moment, Finland is already an important air link, especially from Europe to Asia and the Far East. This air service agreement with Gambia is likely to open up new opportunities for Africa to be the target of new opportunities in the future, both from Africa and from Finland. All the opportunities we can create for tourists to come to Finland are important. But then this debate brought up this network of airports within Finland. I am extremely pleased that different parties have become in favour of maintaining a nationwide network of airports in Finland. It is important for air traffic within Finland, but it is also important because when tourists come to Finland, for example, Helsinki, they will also be able to visit different parts of Finland during the same day and will also make use of the airport network that covers the whole country and provide tourists with various attractions and experiences.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u26	Madam President! It is really good to give the government credit for bringing such a performance. There have been good arguments here why this is a good thing — anticipating that Africa can and probably is a growing market. Then these are our domestic, regional airports, because when we start to do that, the sales work that has been mentioned in this speech, which is also for the common good, it is terribly important that we have natural connections from different regions. With regard to the hundredth, it is particularly important that when we have very active automation marketing and companies in that sector, the salesmen get to the Asian market in a humane way and quickly now, but also around the world. In this way it really seems a little painful how Finavia is going to go public, completely forgetting how much has been lost through derivative transactions, for which losses could have been financed for the next 10 years, even if these regional airports. There is really no self-control in the assessment of policy statements and the impact of own actions. I see that these regional airports really also have the opportunity to improve our tourism. We have now copied the Icelandic model, in which, when the plane stops here, for example in Helsinki, we can use fast regional air connections to give future tourists here, who are here 24 hours a day, the opportunity to get those experiences from other parts of Finland than just so that they are in Helsinki at hotel death.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u27	Mr President! I believe that this air transport agreement is welcome in all respects, that is not the case, but I am sure that in such a debate many people in their own province will think that if we agree with Gambia on air transport, it has been very sticky to agree with our own regions on air transport. It is also important to make new regional takeovers in order to get the route to Gambia, and I genuinely believe that it will play its part, that it is not out of our territories, but it is important to note that we have driven ourselves into very difficult hands through Finavia's operations. The Parliament has, for its part, given up decision-making powers to Finavia in a way that has not been able to tighten up this corporate governance in the same context. These recent departures from Finavia's regional airports by shutting down operations — for example, the fact that they already collected all electronics in theft from the airport of Varkaus — do seem to me to be a real arrogance when Parliament specifically stated that before any unilateral decisions are made by Finavia, this overall assessment of air traffic must be carried out. In that respect, it is a pity that the state of the state of the state and the will of the Finnish Parliament have not been respected. The irony of this Gambia agreement is that the capital city of Banjul, the city of 50,000 inhabitants, will be flown, but then there will be a big question in the future as to whether or not to fly to these smaller cities in southern Finland or even in central Finland. However, I make a deep appeal that, while air transport is being improved around the world too, we should be able to improve it with clear ministerial procedures and parliamentary policies also in Finland and ensure that Finavia is a coach to us, not a host.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u28	President! To the extent that I would supplement or correct Mr Kiuru's speech, I think the better question is why Parliament has given money for investment in an airport where there are no flights at all. It's kind of like what's been done in Spain. Instead, Finavia worked so that it invested 900 million now. So Finavia invests more in airports, airport infrastructure than we can invest in you in Finland. It works well now, and it is exactly the kind of instrument we need here too, on the road infrastructure side, of course. And strong government control, of course, must be involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-05-25-ps-58.u29	Mr President! I did not quite understand that, if we have made a previous policy, which has not been abandoned, and agreed on certain kilometres and certain hours of public transport, that in so far as they are not fulfilled, we will also fly to the regions of southern Finland. I feel really bad about getting out of it. It is quite a big and important decision that Finland is considered equally important from the point of view of accessibility. In that regard — whether it is theft or some other field, even though my own home field Pori — we do expect the government to take action to allow us to fly to Pori. It is not quite simple to think that Finavia can operate in a way that has worked, for example, in its efforts to continuously weaken the operating conditions of Pori Airport. In this regard, we cannot allow the servant of our society to be like a host here on the table jumping. I think that this is an important question — if we consider that even in Gambia we can secure air transport connections, then it must be the same game in Finland as a whole. It is great that many representatives come from a region where air transport is not so important, but when it ends, for example, in the area of Lower Nissilä, with these guidelines, it is not so light either from the point of view of the regional parliament when it comes to the attractiveness and accessibility of its own territory. I think it has been a sustainable and good line that Parliament has taken under the direction of state resources, i.e. that these things will also be safeguarded. Owner guidance must also ensure that Finavia remains in its best shape.
