ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u1	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u2	Madam President! The Government proposes changes to the Act on the Finnish Immigration Service and the Act on the reception of applicants for international protection and the identification and assistance of victims of human trafficking. The amendments to the Act would link the reception centres of the state to the Finnish Immigration Service from the beginning of next year. The state has two reception centres, one in Swano and the other in Oulu. State reception centres are relatively small units for government agencies. They have formed one accounting unit with the Finnish Immigration Service since 2012. The combination of administration is considered to be able to achieve cost savings over a longer period of time. The mission of the Finnish Immigration Service is to maintain a sufficient number of reception centres based on the number of applicants applying for international protection. The establishment of new reception centres will take place within the framework of the state budget. The Finnish Immigration Service directs and supervises reception activities. According to the current law, the Finnish Immigration Service always needs a mandate from the Ministry of the Interior when it establishes or abolishes reception centres. The establishment and closure of reception centres requires knowledge of local conditions, authorities and organisations. The Finnish Immigration Service is better placed to do that than the Ministry of the Interior. The Government considers that the role of the Ministry of the Interior as authorising officer for the establishment and abolition of individual centres can be abandoned. The Ministry of the Interior is responsible for the performance management and monitoring of the Finnish Immigration Service and thus contributes to the balance between the resources, objectives, efficiency and quality of reception activities and the cost-effective delivery of the desired impacts. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u3	Mr President! Minister Risikko has already presented this bill with merit, which indeed contains two major changes. First of all, these reception centres of the state, i.e. the reception centres of the state of Swano and Oulu, are administratively directly linked to the Finnish Immigration Service. The second, perhaps even more significant political change, is that in future the Finnish Immigration Service will have the power to establish and abolish other reception centres, including other reception centres, and the Ministry of the Interior will no longer have a role to play. After all, a preliminary study was carried out during the last parliamentary term on these amendments to the law, and in 2014 it was already provisionally outlined that these changes would indeed be sensible and are part of natural development. State reception centres are currently state agencies, and they are indeed small units and, on the other hand, already rely on the Finnish Immigration Service in a large number of respects. For example, they constitute a single accounting unit from 2012 onwards, i.e. mainly state reception centres have tasks related to human resources management in their own hands. Some synergies can also be expected after this administrative unification, since the Finnish Immigration Service also has its own offices in these municipalities, so that staff can then possibly also be used more flexibly in the future. Of course, it should be noted that both Swano and Oulu’s reception centres have their own important special tasks and are centres of expertise in reception activities. In the case of the Swano, the competence of the assistance system for victims of trafficking in human beings is located there, and then, for Oulu, knowledge of minor asylum seekers is still very important for the entire service production of reception activities. I think it is good that this law now clarifies the responsibilities of the Ministry of the Interior and the Finnish Immigration Service. In other words, the Ministry of the Interior focuses on this strategic management and guidance of reception activities, and now, clearly, this operational responsibility for setting up or abolishing reception centres would then fall within the remit of the Finnish Immigration Service. After all, as we saw very well last year when this number of asylum seekers increased tenfold, there is an excellent degree of flexibility. We must be very flexible in setting up these reception centres, and then we must be able to end them as the need decreases. I welcome the fact that, in the same way that decisions relating to this asylum decision are taken by the authorities and will be taken by the Finnish Immigration Service, and in the future this decision to set up and abolish reception centres will be taken there. The problem here is that, once these decisions have also come to that side of the ministry and have been accompanied, of course, by a strong debate on regional policy, for example, when there has been opposition to the establishment of a reception centre, when there has been opposition to its abolition, and in the ministry, I myself took on board several delegations, one of which was opposed — I believe that it is not primarily a place for political decision-making, but rather a decision by the authorities, as proposed in this draft law. In other words, the system can even become more flexible in this respect. But then, Mr President, I would like to raise one concern in this connection: the reception centres, whether we are talking about the state or other reception centres, are also producing services for social and health care services around the clock for asylum seekers, and in recent times there has been talk of the mental health problems that asylum seekers have. There has been talk of suicide attempts and also of suicides that have taken place since then, and this, of course, also puts a great deal of pressure on the reception centres there, and I am sure that the whole community is under pressure at the moment. Now that the Minister is here, I would like to ask: how has the Ministry of the Interior raised this concern, how is it possible to secure access to mental health services, and how does the Minister see that, at the moment, these reception centres, which are still quite numerous, are able to meet this need? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u4	Mr President! Personally, I would like to make a small point here, as it seems to be in such an administrative solution, but I think that is perhaps the most important point here in the future of the system of assistance for victims of trafficking in human beings, and I would like the committee to pay particular attention to this issue. This proposal by the government has been very, very lightly justified, perhaps it has been precisely that part of it and has considered the problems, although in previous legislative stages, that is, when it was set up, it was very long-standing about where the system of assistance for victims of trafficking should be. In the international comparison, which this government proposal does not have in this respect, the problem of proximity to the authority is a real one, because the search for or guidance of victims of trafficking in human beings into the system of assistance requires a great deal of confidence, and there is usually a legitimate basis for a lack of trust between the authorities and their victims, particularly those of foreign origin. In that sense, in a sense, we are now entering an even more difficult system of assistance. Now, however, this kind of long-term knowledge and trust has been built up in Swano, but now that it is so closely linked to the licensing administration, there is reason to be little concern about how it will work. Otherwise, in practice, Migri has taken various decisions on the identification of trafficking in human beings, rather than what the system of assistance was intended to give a greater role in the identification of victims of trafficking in human beings in the last period in order to give them a stronger position, and then Migri has not given them a residence permit. We have talked about this and we have just come out of this report on victims of trafficking in human beings in Nigeria. So the problem is, you don't recognize. Currently
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u5	Mr President! In this debate, I would like to highlight the excellent efforts made by the reception centre of my municipality of birth, Kyyjärvi, and by the whole municipality in order to achieve successful integration. There are 70 asylum seekers in the municipality, most of whom live in townhouses owned by the municipality — not all in one place, but all have their own homes there. Every asylum seeker has a family of friends in Kyyjärvi. We meet regularly with a family of friends, share everyday chores, do small renovations and so on. A number of asylum seekers have received an internship at a local concrete element factory and 20 asylum seekers are about to receive an apprenticeship in that factory and have been promised a permanent job in Kyyjärvi. Language training is successful, children are in preparatory education. Why am I telling you this? Because I cannot understand that Migri is now ending this excellent reception centre for integration. It is precisely in the small municipalities that the problem has so far been that they have not wanted to or have not been very enthusiastic about taking asylum seekers, and it is not necessarily in the larger places that such results have been achieved. So now you should make a pilot of this kind and learn how even a small municipality can succeed in things where it seems that the big ones will not succeed in any way. They do not fly in the lake of Kyyjärvi, they have taken asylum seekers as members of the community.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u6	Madam President! I'll take that up with Congressman Paloniemi. We do indeed have well - functioning reception centres in small towns. For example, when I visited that Keitele last summer, they were very sorry that a well - functioning reception center, where there were no problems of any kind, was closed down. I went to Saarijärvi and there are excellent business pilot projects. In some ways, we should also consider that it is not necessarily the best way to concentrate and the great centres of integration for the future and possible integration of those people, if they have a positive decision. At this stage the Minister could be asked whether there is information about these new shutdown centres. Has the list been made yet? Then I would have liked to raise the issue of the situation of victims of trafficking in human beings, as is the case with this amendment of the law or with the management of these reception centres. When I talk to asylum seekers, there are quite a lot of women who, in their process, have been caught by human traffickers, among other things, by first entering the EU, by seeking asylum in Italy and by human traffickers, for example, by prostitution. Once they have fled there to Finland, they are Dublin cases, but quite a few of these women are afraid to tell us what fates they have encountered along the way, because it is a belief, as in many other countries, that the person involved in prostitution is precisely the culprit, even though he is an absolute victim in this case. In that sense, I would also have asked the Minister whether, in those interview situations, it is possible to ensure that the asylum seeker also knows and understands that if he is a victim of trafficking in human beings, he will be able to tell us about this without being threatened by an accusation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u7	President! In many respects, this proposal is most welcome and is also in line with the Government Programme as regards deregulation and bureaucracy. It is good that the Finnish Immigration Service should decide on the setting up of reception facilities — it will do so, which will be able and able to master the whole. It has not been the right line that reception centers have been created like mushrooms in the rain and that the accommodation business in its spirit has, as it were, received artificial breath from this. Many tourist places that have already been bankrupt and changed owners have become a reception centre, and then it has been thought that when the government pays for the violins, it will be made profitable again or even go a little further. It is also very welcome that the law on the identification and assistance of victims of trafficking in human beings should be amended in such a way that decision-making remains separate from the decision-making process of the Finnish Immigration Service on residence permits and applications for international protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u11	Madam President! This government proposal does support proper immigration activities in Finland. I would have asked the Minister if, now that the Finnish Immigration Service is given this power of decision to establish and abolish, whether there is a regional question as to the way in which opinions are being asked or whether people in the region are being listened to when there are certainly a wide range of opinions on this issue. I would also like to raise the issue of refugee children who come alone. Yesterday, the Nordic Council addressed this issue. I myself am a member of the welfare committee, and this has been one of our priorities in committee, and there is great concern, among other things, that the number of missing children seeking asylum is increasing day by day, that they are disappearing to Europe, the Nordic countries, and I do not know, Minister, but have you been informed of the situation in Finland? Are there children missing in Finland? There was already mention here of the Oulu Reception Centre, which has the activities of minors, but how will more attention be paid to this in the future? However, children must be taken care of and guaranteed their safety so that they do not fall victim to this trafficking in human beings. They are fragile and, in that sense, in such danger, and I would ask you. Otherwise, it's all very well-supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u12	Mr President! The subject of the study of trafficking in human beings itself is very close, and I would like to emphasise this ability of all the different authorities, of civil society, of the third sector and of ordinary citizens to identify victims of trafficking in human beings. It seems that for many years, both here in Finland and elsewhere, we have been hearing about this lack of ability to identify victims, and all I can say is that, even in this migration crisis, this debate is extremely important, and I would like to quote from Commodore Olavi Jantus, whom we saw in Italy on the trip to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. He said that he cannot say what is worse: drowning in the Mediterranean, or what is happening along the way and what is happening to these women and children in particular.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u13	Madam President! This is where Mr Biaudet and some others raised the issue of this system of assistance for victims of trafficking in human beings and the operation of the reception centre in Swano, which is indeed a very important activity, and the pressure on it has increased in recent times, which is, unfortunately, an increase in the number of customers there. I myself recently visited it, and I really appreciate the activities and expertise and know-how there is. But I now hope that the Minister will clarify this, because I personally understand that there is no real change in the legislation regarding the system of assistance for victims of trafficking in human beings through this amendment of the law, that is to say, we, in the current law, the Finnish Immigration Service, have an obligation to direct the implementation of assistance to victims of trafficking. And this very same wording has then moved on to this new law, which also says that the mission of the Finnish Immigration Service is to guide the implementation of the victims of trafficking in human beings. In addition to this, we still have a very separate piece of legislation to guide our efforts to help victims of trafficking in human beings, and then we have our own mandates which, as I understand it, will not change in any way, but let the Minister correct if necessary. And then there's another thing. In this representative Paloniemi raised, for example, this kind of Kyyjärvi, a small locality, such reception centers. In future, the Ministry will be able to direct the activities in a way that prioritizes the localities by means of performance guidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u14	Mr President! Representative Räsänen pointed out that, in fact, the law on the assistance of victims of trafficking in human beings is not changed. But we have had certain problems in implementing it in the sense that there has been a lack of confidence that there are not enough victims being directed there. It is a question of what has been discussed in the past: how will it be done when you get too close to that authority? However, it is possible to do so a lot, but it is still the case that NGOs, for example, are not directing at the moment, which is a major problem. Furthermore, apart from the fact that the role of the victims to be helped was strengthened by legislation, in reality the interpretation has changed so that those who have been identified as victims of trafficking in human beings have now been removed from the country, even though they have children and others, because Migri has not given them a residence permit. That something has happened there that I do not quite understand and which was not the purpose of that law or the purpose of the legislators to understand it. It is worth looking at in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u15	Madam President! Of course, this consolidation project seeks savings and perhaps some degree of fluency and, in particular, that these immigration issues should come under the thumb of the administrative authority and, in a certain way, this political direction will automatically be reduced. Often, when you try to help asylum seekers or victims of trafficking in human beings, the balance is that you run into quite an official wall, and my concern here is that now this wall with this motion is growing further. This is an important issue, and I welcome the fact that the committee has taken account of the fact that this possibility of involving citizens in Migri's activities could in some way increase. I would also like to say that this proposal, in a certain way, also detracts from doing this at a local level when it comes to directing from afar what is happening elsewhere, without any idea of what the real level of doing is. I am somewhat concerned about this proposal, and Mr Biaudet and Mr Räsänen have also made excellent contributions to these threats.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u16	Madam President! Here Mr Paloniemi and others have drawn attention to this abolition of the reception centre in Kyyjärvi. It is quite understandable and natural that, when the number of asylum seekers has clearly decreased since last year, the need for reception centres will also be reduced accordingly. I would like to say, however, that I think it is absolutely wonderful how Kyyjärvi and the Kyyjärvi people have accepted asylum seekers who have been placed there and how well these asylum seekers seem to have adapted to the life of the viper and the Finnish people. This will hopefully show all municipal decision-makers across the country that the integration of immigrants is also successful in small municipalities, and it will hopefully be reflected in the fact that these municipal places are being provided in sufficient quantities. As has been said here, many asylum seekers have also been able to work or at least practice in Kyyjärvi, and, for example, there has been writing on the Helsingin Sanomat opinion page where an entrepreneur who has been employed by an asylum seeker cannot understand that this asylum seeker has received a negative solution to his asylum application. Well, it is clear that where international protection is sought, solutions are made in the light of the need for international protection and that issues such as being a hard worker or a working woman cannot affect the solution. But of course it would be a victory for both the asylum seeker and Finland if such a hardworking person who found a job could stay in Finland. And it is good that administrative and case-law have considered it possible that a residence permit based on work in such a situation can also be applied for from Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u17	Mr President! I will continue with my previous speech in relation to these refugee children who are going to be on their own. I think it is very important that we continue to develop better — but also more secure — methods of dating when children arrive from there, so that we can also bring out the real need for help and do not make this abuse, which, unfortunately, is sometimes the case that adult people will also be able to arrive as children, so to speak. I would have asked you again, Minister: After much discussion in that Nordic Council about these children, their fates and the disappearance of children, how are we looking here in Finland if the child is lost? Are we looking for the same way as other missing persons, and what may this situation be like? Is there anything to improve? If the child goes missing, is there any record of it there at the center? Do we know who's here? Every extra case, as far as I'm concerned... And this suggests precisely that there is sexual exploitation of children, which has been talked about a lot, and many children are the victims of these very situations, and if something is the worst thing that can happen in the world: trafficking in human beings and the fact that a child is the sufferer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u18	Madam President! This bill is a good one, but it is worth commenting on the reception centre in general. I have visited several reception centres especially here in southern Finland, for example Vuosaari and Kirkkonummi, and I must thank the Finnish Red The cross-checks on what they have done with regard to reception centres, because without them, the migration crisis of last year would not have been able to cope with dry feet. In all these centres where I have visited, the activities have been good and of good quality and have been welcomed by both residents and employees. The majority of these criticisms relate to privately managed reception centres, but unfortunately, despite numerous requests, even a Member of Parliament has not been able to familiarise himself with the activities of such a private reception centre. I have been in contact with more than one person, and in all different ways a visit has been refused. This can be considered strange, and perhaps it tells us something about whether the activity is sufficiently good or not. I would like to ask the Minister: how else do you assess the operation of the reception centres, which should be the line in the future? Personally, I would see that it seems problematic that private parties are particularly in this situation, when much has to be done to set up reception centres, such as the representative. Kivelä here said, were able to benefit financially from the situation and the level was not necessarily at the level that should be. How do you really comment as Minister on this situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u19	Madam President! I personally also consider this government proposal to be broadly in the right direction. I welcome the clarification now of the role of the Finnish Immigration Service as the leader and starter of the reception centre system and also, where necessary and possible, as regards the closure of reception centres. However, I ask the Minister about this consultation of municipalities — not only about consultation with municipalities, but also about the Finnish Red Cross and other actors in the region, as has been mentioned earlier: will this legislation also reform the process of ensuring that the conditions for integration and assistance provided by municipalities and organisations in reception centres are as good and workable as possible in order to succeed in the actual task of integration, if and when a person is granted asylum in Finland? There will be further consultation of the committee and, at that point, there will also be a return to the matter. With regard to the economic impact, it was to be noted that the primary objective of the government in this area is not to achieve savings but to achieve more effective action.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u20	Madam President! I would like to point out here that, when the preparatory section tells and lists these people who have been consulted here, it is the SPR, Amnesty and the human rights centres that are missing. I hope that when this goes to the Administrative Committee, they will then see to it that they will also be consulted, because they are really experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u21	Mr President! I was actually inspired by what Mr Zyskowicz said. He spoke very wisely: we in Finland have always appreciated diligence, and it is really good if the official Finland also took this diligence into account when asylum seekers, for example, come here. Now that family reunification has been made very difficult. This income limit, 2400, is so high that many Finns who work in Finland do not get that kind of income, and it would be good to also take into account the importance of hard work. The good news is that the role of the Finnish Immigration Service is now being clarified, but it is still a little open to us in what way we take these minors into account when these centres are set up. Many of them take root very quickly, making friends there. The local population also makes a lot of contact with them, there are such godparent families, and then they are sent from the reception centre to other parts of Finland, which means that they are in a way forced to start this repatriation all over again. For many young people this can be such an incentive for exclusion, and it is very important that this too should be taken into account here as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u22	Madam President! There has been a debate here about the establishment and abolition of reception centres and the way in which decision-making should be taken. Of course, from my own experience, I have great confidence in the argument that: The Finnish Immigration Service is better equipped and best placed to take these decisions, because it is also best acquainted with the local conditions and the functioning of the authorities and organisations. But the Ministry still retains the role of the Finnish Immigration Service’s performance guidance, in which these general policies, general principles, then the establishment of reception centres, can be made. But I do find it problematic that the establishment of a reception centre, for example, may be subject to quite a lot of political pressure to oppose it in a locality or to oppose its abolition, and it is not good if this decision is overly politicised. I think it is better for the authority to take its decision on the basis of the best available information.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u23	Mr President! I asked for another floor when the last time was running out. — There has often been a debate in public about the fact that entrepreneurs are not able to understand that a diligent, energetic asylum seeker who has taken up a job or an internship does not find a positive decision on the basis of his application. In this situation, there is a certain misunderstanding at hand, could you say? In other words, when a person is seeking international protection, asylum in Finland, it is clear that his or her part of the solution must be made on the basis of the need for international protection and in this light it is considered whether he or she is entitled to asylum or subsidiary protection. Fortunately, however, according to the reports I have received, case law and administrative practice are such that although, as a general rule, a permit to reside in Finland on the basis of work must be applied for, in such situations as described above, where a person has a job and an employer in Finland and where it is not a case of abuse as regards our asylum system, such a person may, in administrative and legal practice, be granted a residence permit in Finland on the basis of work, even if that permit has been applied for from Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u24	Mr President! I have to say to Mr Räsänen that I do appreciate the Finnish Immigration Service, but I myself know that since I have been in contact with the Finnish Immigration Service on this Kyyjärvi issue some days ago — and I do not think that it is politicised if you are interested in such a good pilot body living with their asylum seekers — I was answered from the Finnish Immigration Service that they do not know the local conditions. Yes, they make these decisions on a rather categorical basis. They do not know precisely because they are busy there, I understand that, and the pressure is heavy. I'm afraid that's not true, Päivi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u26	Now, Minister Risiko's turn, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u27	Madam President! Thank you for the very good questions. Now I am just listening to the fact that I am sure that we have understood what we are looking for here. This is precisely the clarification of the work of the Finnish Immigration Service in relation to the Ministry, and I think it is very good that the Finnish Immigration Service now has this mandate to clarify these issues in greater detail. The establishment and closure of reception centres always requires knowledge and cooperation networks of local conditions, both public authorities and organisations, and I say that the Finnish Immigration Service is better placed to do so than the Ministry of the Interior, and that is why I see that it is important to have this matter under control there. However, the Ministry retains this monitoring of performance and also a kind of balancing of resources, objectives, efficiency and quality and ensuring that this is the case. In that sense, I see that this is an administrative change that facilitates action and decision-making. I would say that there have certainly been challenges with regard to the operation of the reception centres. After all, at the time when these had to be set up on a fast schedule, it has already been said, not everything went as it would have been good to go when they had to be done quickly. The agreements that were then suddenly to be concluded when it was really the case that we had the people on that staircase, that is why we obviously have to clean up. Now, of course, lessons have been learned from it and we have also wondered what the next step would be if this were to happen. We learn a lot from it, and we have a so-called internal audit that has done this and made a plan of measures, and Migri has taken over the fact that we have learned from it. Certainly the consultation of municipalities will continue to take place, and it must now be taken into account that it will then be the impact of integration and the integration phase, once this decision has been taken and approved for this stay and the asylum obtained, and then, of course, this action under the integration legislation will take place, and then it will be on that side of the TEM. Then you were concerned about the attention of minors. If we know that a minor has been registered in Finland and that he is nowhere to be found, of course they are looking for him, but it is unfortunate that we do not know how much has left here because they may not have registered. They may have come with human traffickers or with such really illegal drivers, which is a very serious matter, but unfortunately we cannot know about them. Then, of course, I say yes that Migri also has expertise in helping victims of trafficking. After all, we in the ministerial group will shortly be discussing this programme of measures, and we will be publishing what changes may still be made to this assistance to victims of trafficking in human beings. Then, of course, I would have said more about Kyyjärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u28	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u29	Madam President! The number of asylum seekers coming to Finland rose clearly during 2015, when the need to develop security measures to ensure the smooth functioning of the asylum procedure and the implementation of the removal of persons who have been refused a decision was created. The proposal is also based on a Government statement in the previous Government proposal on detention. According to the statement, the aim would be to ban the detention of unaccompanied children in full in the future. A statement on detention options, which is our Ministry of the Interior's publication 35/2014, stated that Finland lacks the general possibility of imposing a residence obligation in several countries. The report did not propose a ban on the detention of all minors, since detention as a last resort is a necessary part of the overall security measures and no alternative to their full effectiveness. That is why this group did not propose a total ban on detention. The Government now proposes that two new security measures be added to the range of security measures in the Foreign Act. New security measures will extend the range of security measures available to the authorities and reduce the need for detention. The first of the new security measures concerns all asylum seekers at different stages of the asylum procedure, and this is: Currently, during the examination of the application, the asylum seeker can live either at the reception centre or obtain private accommodation. With the proposed residence obligation, an asylum seeker could be assigned to live in a designated reception centre. Applicants should report to the reception centre 1 to 4 times a day. The objective of the obligation to live is to ensure the smooth functioning of the asylum process. In practice, this means that an asylum seeker would be more easily present for the processing of his application, such as an asylum interview. The use of the obligation to live could also facilitate the return of those who have received negative decisions. The imposition of an obligation to live would always be considered on a case-by-case basis. It should be necessary to ensure the processing or removal of an application. It would also be necessary for personal reasons to allow for a temporary derogation. Then one of the new security measures concerns unaccompanied minor asylum seekers who are about to be removed from the country. This government proposal does not propose to give up the detention of children. From the point of view of the authorities, there is still a clear need for detention, in particular in order to secure removal. In practice, children are very rarely detained in Finland. The aim is to reduce the detention of children by developing alternative security measures. The proposed obligation of residence for a child is intended as a less restrictive alternative to the detention of a child but is more severe than the measures already in place under the Aliens Act. The obligation to live could be imposed if the conditions for the detention of the child are met. The obligation could only apply to a child aged 15 or over who has received a negative asylum decision and an expulsion decision. A child could be assigned to live in a designated reception centre for children, stay in its territory and register there daily. The child’s obligation to live would take up to two weeks. It would be possible to extend the period for a maximum of two weeks if this is necessary to secure removal. That order would be subject to the procedures laid down for the closure of detention and judicial proceedings. A child could also be temporarily exempted from this obligation for serious personal reasons. The child’s obligation to live as an alternative to detention would have a positive impact on the child’s position and the child’s best interests. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u30	Madam President! This bill has indeed started with that statement by the Government of the last parliamentary term, which required the Ministry of the Interior to prepare a report on the options for the detention of foreigners. Indeed, I hope that this will remain precisely and this will be used as an alternative to detention, i.e. that the threshold will be kept sufficiently high for this obligation to live to be imposed on the asylum seeker. After all, we do not have any general obligation to live, that is to say that we can organise our accommodation in private accommodation, that we do not have to stay at the reception centre, or that we have good examples of, for example, folk colleges where we study asylum seekers outside the reception centres. However, as far as minors are concerned, as is generally the case, I consider this possibility to be good and humane, that such a special obligation to live can be provided for when it is considered to be an appropriate alternative to detention.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u31	Mr President! The purpose of this proposal is to amend the foreign law so as to include in the law provisions new measures concerning the obligation to live and the obligation of the child to live. This would impose an obligation on a person seeking asylum to live in a certain vodka and register there 1 to 4 times a day — or would this now mean a week? In the case of an adult, the obligation to live could be used as a means of facilitating removal by providing authorities with better information on the location of persons. The aim of the proposal is also to reduce the number of detentions and to promote the processing of asylum applications. Such a residence obligation could be imposed on an adult on lighter grounds than the detention allowed by the current law and, in the case of children, the obligation to live could be imposed on an unaccompanied child aged 15 or over who has applied for international protection and who has obtained an expulsion decision which has become enforceable only if the conditions for detention are met. In this case, the child should remain in the vodka area and the obligation to live would last for a maximum of two weeks. It is, of course, possible to continue this in another two-week period at most. The purpose of the government proposal is precisely to reduce the number of detentions of such children who need special protection measures. The starting point for the use of these protective measures is that consideration will always be given first to the use of less stringent protective measures provided for in the Aliens Act. If these protective measures are not considered effective, a foreigner may be detained. The purpose of the housing obligation now in force is not to have to resort to detention so often, and in particular for unaccompanied minors over the age of 15, the aim is to minimise detention and replace it with a housing obligation. However, this possibility for the detention of children belonging to that group is maintained for specific cases. Mr President! I would like to emphasise that this proposal aims to reduce the number of detentions for applicants for international protection and to make use of softer means, thereby improving the position of children. However, this possibility for the detention of a child aged 15 or over must be considered justified, for example, in situations where the child has repeatedly committed crimes while residing in Finland and his/her removal is being prepared. However, these are exceptional situations at present. It should be noted that in 2011-2012 a total of 4 unaccompanied children were detained and in 2013 only 10 were detained and in 2014 only 4 were detained. In 2015, 11 unaccompanied children were detained and no unaccompanied children were taken into custody by the end of August in the current year. The entry into force of the obligation to live will probably reduce these costs, and I think that this government proposal is very necessary. I myself conducted asylum interviews when it was still part of the police, and even then I do not remember that there was ever such a situation — perhaps vaguely some individuals — that there would not have been a hearing. But what I see is that the most important thing is that if they receive any financial support from the reception centres there — or the daily allowance or whatever it is now called — then they will have the opportunity to buy those hygiene products and so forth — when they get it. It is what will certainly keep people always available, whether it is an interrogation or any other authority measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u32	Mr President! We are living in a historic transformation and taking part in decisions that gradually form history and the symbols of the time that we may then remember in our old age, hopefully with a good conscience. In this sense, once again, I find it extremely difficult that its starting point is not about protecting the rights of an individual or protecting his or her freedom, but it is precisely about the general atmosphere, the fears and so on. In that sense, it seems that this sort of parallel reality exists when one is familiar with the way in which removals actually take place. We know from them that the better man has been prepared, the better he has been able to arrange his affairs, the easier it will be, the more it will be to leave the country. It is therefore important that the committee hears closely the Ombudsman for Equality, who has a legal obligation to monitor these removals. I would like never another child to be taken so that he cannot say goodbye to his schoolmates and they wonder where he went, if he died or what happened to him. I hope that a child, a minor child who is considered a criminal, will never be removed from the country again, but will perhaps later be seen as a victim of trafficking in human beings. Each such situation is too much, and in that sense these are serious situations. This government proposal has been issued by a number of human rights enforcement institutions, such as the Red Cross, which has a very special mandate to monitor, for example, the status of people detained and to visit prisons and detentions, for example, and in that sense I think that their opinion would be a particularly heavy word in this legislative process, in the examination of the government's proposal. They draw attention to these very criteria that there has been no assessment of the impact of these measures on asylum seekers and foreigners in general. They also draw second attention to the fact that it is good to seek alternatives to detention, but this government proposal does not include the actual alternatives, but rather introduces a new model which is essentially a new security measure, which can be used before the criteria for actual detention have been met. When the threshold is lowered, it may also be easier. They also draw attention to the fact that if the staff of the reception centre are given an obligation to monitor, under criminal responsibility, this compliance with the obligation to live and register, they fear that their work in carrying out these duties will become impossible and doubt whether they will be able to continue to do these things because it violates their basic duty.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u33	Madam President! In the future, a foreigner seeking international protection may be required to live in a designated reception centre and register there 1 to 4 times a day. Where this is necessary to determine entry or stay or to ensure exit, an obligation to live may also be required in case-by-case consideration. Any intentional non-compliance with the obligation could be subject to a fine. Mr President! This good presentation also provides for a possible sudden increase in the number of asylum seekers. There are very different forecasts of what is the pressure on Europe, including Finland, towards the EU, and that is something to be prepared for. The Government will put in place a joint asylum policy action programme piece by piece. For adults, this obligation to live may be imposed on lighter grounds than the detention allowed by the current law. In the case of unaccompanied minors, i.e. those aged 15 to 18, the objective is to minimise detention and replace it with a housing obligation. Possible detention is justified, as Mr Ruoho said, for example in situations where the child has repeatedly committed crimes while in Finland and his/her removal is being prepared. Mr Biaudet pointed out that the government had not taken account of the impact on asylum seekers in this proposal. I'd see things differently myself. As Mr Ruoho pointed out, four unaccompanied children were detained in 2011-2012, 10 were taken in 2013, only 4 were taken in 2014 and 11, this year not one. It is precisely through the entry into force of this obligation to live in the first place that it would be likely to reduce the need for detention for minors. These figures could even go to zero. In any case, this is an exceptional procedure. I would like to stress that it is always a case-by-case consideration, in which this is the last safeguard procedure if anything else does not help.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u34	Madam President! This proposal proposes to provide for new measures to safeguard the obligation to live and the obligation of the child to live. A foreigner seeking international protection could be required to live in a designated reception centre and register there 1 to 4 times a day if this is necessary to determine the conditions of entry or residence or to ensure removal. The obligation to live in a child could be imposed on an unaccompanied child aged 15 or over who has been granted international protection, subject to the conditions of detention, who has obtained an expulsion decision which has become enforceable. The detention of an unaccompanied child is exceptional in Finland. However, the possibility of the detention of a child aged 15 or over has been considered justified, for example, in situations where the child has repeatedly committed crimes while residing in Finland and his/her removal is being prepared. As stated above, detention always requires a case-by-case overall consideration, prioritising all protective measures that are less restrictive than detention. In the case of children, it is also assessed whether child protection measures should be applied to the child in addition to or instead of security measures under the Aliens Act. However, detention as such is not always contrary to the best interests of the child, but can also safeguard the legitimate and orderly conduct of the child’s proceedings. Mr President! The Ministry of the Interior received 29 responses. The opinions generally supported the objectives of the proposal. New administrative protective measures were generally seen as necessary. Several commentators pointed out that the options for detention must be genuine and alternative safeguards for detention. Mr President! The child’s interests and protection from trafficking in human beings are highlighted in the following way and in the following way: Article 6(3) of the Constitution requires that children be treated equally as individuals and that they be allowed to influence matters relating to themselves in accordance with their development. According to Article 6 of the Aliens Act, special attention must be paid to the best interests of the child and to issues related to his or her development and health in the decision-making process. The article also provides for the consultation of the child and the urgent handling of matters relating to the child. According to Law 746/2011 on the reception of applicants for international protection and on the identification and assistance of victims of trafficking in human beings, special attention must always be paid to the best interests of the child and to the development and health aspects of that law. That is why I wanted to speak here again, because the previous proposal dealt with a lot of issues relating to children.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u35	Mr President! In this government proposal it is proposed to amend the Aliens Act by including provisions on new measures to safeguard the obligation to live. A foreigner seeking international protection could be required to live in a designated reception centre and register there one to four times a day if this is necessary to determine the conditions of entry or residence or to ensure removal. Mr President! In recent days, there has been a surprising rise in racism, but much less thought has been given to the reasons for the increase in legitimate immigration criticisms of citizens. Indeed, the main reason for the increase in immigration criticism is probably the lack of awareness among citizens in everyday life.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u40	Mr President! I think it is a matter of expressing racist opinions to say that some nationalities involve more criminal activity. It does not apply, there is nothing true, there is no global investigation that any nationality involves more criminal activity. I think that is totally inappropriate and racist.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u41	Mr President! I am a little surprised or rather surprised by this statement made here by Mr Biaudet. In my opinion, appealing to research results and referring to them cannot under any circumstances be racism. This is already beginning to go to the side of the restriction of freedom of expression and the constitutional rights of a Member of Parliament, if that is the case. Mr Biaudet, if he insists, I can provide these findings. They're all available online. As I said, these are studies carried out by the Crimean Institute and the Institute for Legal Policy, and they are very much to be seen from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u42	President! I also think it is important to talk about what racism is, and I think it is important to think about what racism is and what discrimination is, what prejudice is. If it is said that certain nationalities involve more crime, then I think it is racism. It is different if there are different figures in Finland, what different nationalities have done, but it is not related to certain nationalities that someone commits more crimes. It cannot be generalized, and there is no such research. I think it is more racist than anything else. I think this would be interesting to hear: what do you think is racism, and where is the border?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u43	Madam President! This is an important debate in itself. This definition was taken up by researcher Dr. Heikki A. He's a tough guy in the Ethics blog. He said: 'If I say that immigrants are overrepresented in statistics on rape, for example, this argument is not racism — if it is true.' So if it can be statistically demonstrated that a group of the population is doing more of this, then we need to consider why. It is certainly not because of where these people come from, but because they are somewhere else, but it is not racism to say this. It would be racism if you went on to say that this is why all the people in this group are somehow under suspicion — it would be. But the fact that this statistical fact tells and then wonders what to do about it cannot under any circumstances be racism. And, of course, as Mr Savio has said here, the constitutional right of a Member of Parliament to express his views here in the mandate that the people have given us must also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u44	Madam President! I would urge Mr Biaudet to be a little more careful about waving this racist ax. On the other hand, what does Mr Biaudet think would not be racism? We have noticed that many times here. As far as statistics are concerned, I would hope that there is no thought in this Chamber that if ideology and facts contradict each other, then the worse the facts, but we would read the statistics just as they read. But as far as this bill is concerned, I think it is good. From the point of view of our asylum policy as a whole, it is absolutely essential that our return policy should be credible that our negative decisions should also be implemented in the appropriate way. And for this reason, I think it is very important that we also have adequate safeguards in situations where we have to be uncertain whether the decisions taken will be taken in the way they were intended.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u45	And the reply, Mr Biaudet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u46	Mr President! I think there is a difference, of course, in a slightly different way about these figures. It is different to say that there is more crime involved in certain nationalities and it wants to justify that all these groups want more stringent regulations. That's how I understood this speech. Well, it's a little different then if you're gonna sugarcoat it and make it a little nicer and that message's gonna change a little bit. And it is quite true that statistics can be reported, but if you say that there is more crime involved in certain nationalities and that is why we need to make stricter legislation, then I think it is based on a racist view and I think it is important to discuss it. When we talk about racism, it is good to think about what it is and what it is not. In that sense, I thank you for giving us the opportunity to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u47	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u48	Madam President! I will return to the previous debate to the point that nationality is hardly a characteristic of man’s crime. We well know how Finns were written when Finns went to work abroad, for example, but it is another debate, and you can probably debatate more about it. But to my actual subject. The proposal proposes to amend the Aliens Act by adding provisions on the obligation to live and the obligation to live and the measures to protect the child. A foreigner seeking international protection, as has been said, could therefore be required to live and register at a particular reception centre if this is necessary to determine the conditions of entry or residence or to ensure exit or removal. On the other hand, the proposal provides for an alternative to the detention of the child, and in this respect the detention procedures would be followed. The child’s obligation to live would last for a maximum of two weeks. People are disappearing on Europe's asylum routes. People are also disappearing in different countries. People are also disappearing during asylum processes. The increase in the number of so-called undocumented people in societies poses many challenges. Children who have received a negative asylum decision or who are minors are particularly vulnerable and vulnerable to risks and problems. A well-functioning asylum policy also requires effective instruments to ensure that the conditions of entry or residence are adequately established, as well as, in the case of those who have received a negative decision, removal within the framework of international law. The obligation to live is also one of the tools to be understood, as long as it is precisely an alternative to detention, not an alternative to reception. It is important that the threshold for recourse to alternative security measures is kept high. However, it is also a question of restricting fundamental rights when it comes to the obligation to live. That is why it is good that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also takes a position on this matter. The obligation to live is clearly more serious than the obligation to register. The obligation to live should therefore be invoked only at the time of non-compliance with the obligation to register. At the same time, the neutral role of the workers in the reception centres must be guaranteed and these roles should be kept separate from those of the authorities. And individual judgment in all decisions should be guaranteed in the future. There are many problems with detention. I find the detention of minors particularly questionable. It is therefore important that alternatives to detention have been considered and that those alternatives should also be actively used in relation to that detention. Mr President! In committee, the proposal must now be dealt with in depth. The impact on children must also be assessed. You don't want to play with them. The message of the problems of detention has been widely voiced and, as we have seen, the previous government has already been active in this matter. That is why alternatives to detention are needed. These options must of course be practical, but on the other hand they must also be humanely sustainable. When we start from this point of view, I guess the outcome will be acceptable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u49	President! After all, the social climate of debate is becoming so sad, which is linked to the debate in this republic on immigration. Different extremes dominate the debate, and in no way attempt to engage in a dialogue to understand the views and opinions of others, to lock themselves so deeply into opinions. But on this matter, in the government's proposal: it should be noted that the article in this debate contains the word'may', i.e. it is a preventative authorisation in border situations where there is a fear that the applicant for protection might be in danger of being abducted, run off or staying illegally. A minor child could also be obliged to register at a particular reception centre and to leave the area of the centre in order to be obliged to do so. This is an alternative to arresting a child. I think that this is a less traumatic procedure for a child. The child’s obligation to live would take up to two weeks, and that’s a good thing. But here, when you define obligations, you define rights, and good so, but also sanctions. If the obligation is violated in general, the offender could be fined. On the other hand, it is different how fines work in practice. I would like an answer from the Minister on how this fine measure would work in practice in the event of an indecent asylum seeker. Is that enough to scare you?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u50	Madam President! The main idea of this government proposal seems quite justified. The obligation to live and the child’s obligation to live as an activity would be lighter than the current detention in situations where asylum processes sometimes occur. And so, a less restrictive measure than detention is, in particular, on this point, I would like to emphasise the position of minors: I still find it a little questionable that the law, however, will also remain an act of detention for minors, but I still hope, and I hope that the introduction of the obligation to live and the obligation of the child to live will then become more common in these cases and that the detention of minors will take place in history. I also welcome the fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will give an opinion on this matter to the Administrative Committee, because, of course, when it comes to restrictions on freedom, this review of legality must also be dealt with by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. And in due course, in the Committee on Administrative Affairs, a number of more specific questions will be put to this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u51	Mr President! As Mr Kari said, of course, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs gives its opinion on the constitutionality of this proposal, but it must be borne in mind that an unaccompanied child who has reached the age of 15 years of international protection must not be detained until the decision to remove him has become enforceable. In other words, it is not possible to be detained during the asylum procedure, but only when he has already received a negative decision and has indeed become enforceable. In addition, the detained child must be released no later than 72 hours after his detention and, for specific reasons only, he or she can be kept in custody for no more than 72 hours at all. So, of course, these things need to be remembered here, so that there is a time, let us say, for a limited procedure, and that is a good thing. But indeed the Constitutional Committee then assessed the constitutionality of the Constitution, just as Mr Kari said.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u52	Mr President! I myself would have repeated that this possibility for the detention of a child aged 15 or over has indeed been considered justified in these circumstances when it has been established that the child has been repeatedly committed and that his removal is being prepared.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u53	Madam President! I would like to reply to Mrs Elo mainly that, when it comes to the detention of a child, the detention of a minor child, I would also recommend that Mrs Elon take a look at our detention units. Detention as a measure is much stronger than what is now described in the Government bill as a measure of the obligation to live. One to four times registration in a housing unit is a considerably lighter restriction on freedom than a measure that is carried out, can you say, behind closed doors, if not in prison conditions but in a certain kind of detention mode. It is truly regrettable that, when we have received these asylum centres, such as public limited-liability asylum centres, Mr Elo has not been able to get to know them, but I believe that, for example, we will certainly have access to the storage unit of the reception centre in Metsälä.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u54	Madam President! It is also worth noting that 2014 was a good decision: the Swano Reception Unit has a special unit for such minors, which takes particular account of the needs of these people. And here we must remember that the idea of the government proposal is precisely to reduce this need for detention by means of this obligation to live. So I think that this is a good objective, and I believe that these small figures in themselves, which have been in Finland in this regard, which were mentioned earlier in the speeches, can even be reduced to zero, and it will be a credit to Finland, if that happens, and I believe that we can also find a common line here with the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u55	And back on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u56	Madam President! As far as children are concerned, I am particularly pleased that this is going in a lighter direction, because it seems cruel to me that children are being detained. I understand that this obligation to live is also the wish of many NGOs, even if they would have gone even further to make this situation easier for children. There is still that small possibility of detention, but mainly I see that it is a means of living — if necessary. But here it must be noted that their same criteria must be met in determining children to be required to live as in the present detention. This deadline, i.e. 2 plus 2 weeks, is quite understandable. Under no circumstances is an automatic, not even for an adult, and it must always be assessed on a case-by-case basis. In other words, each time a separate assessment, each time a fixed period, and that is why I think it is good, even though this is not going to be quite as mild in the case of adults as in the case of children, that the general rule from now on may be the obligation to live, i.e. to register one or more times a day at the place where the actual place of residence is. But that's not the same thing as being locked up behind locked doors all day. If that is how we get this order of business for asylum seekers so that they can be caught when they want to speak or are professionals who come to see them, or if there is a possible exit, then I can see that this is a good way to do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u57	Mr President! Reducing detention is, in itself, a very worthwhile objective. After all, detention is practically a case of deprivation of liberty in situations where a person has committed no crime. By far the majority of detention decisions in Finland also have a reason for leaving the country, i.e. most of them are not related to crimes committed by an asylum seeker at all. In my view, in the case of minors, detention should be abolished altogether. However, this bill now raises doubts about this very objective of reducing detention. Many human rights organisations have suggested that an obligation to register should be introduced as a substitute for detention, which is therefore a much lighter method than what the government is now proposing. They have also been campaigning for a long time for the total abolition of detention of minors in Finland, so I would now like to ask the Minister: why, in this context, could these means not be considered, if the aim is simply to reduce detention? What raises most doubts here is precisely what has been said in this many speeches that this obligation to live can be imposed on lighter grounds than detention at the moment. So I would also like to ask the Minister: how do we avoid that this change of law now leads to this kind of control and restriction of people's movement now being extended to a larger group?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u58	Mr President! The implementation of a negative asylum decision is sometimes hard to see. A few years ago, we had the opportunity to follow such execution through the airport bus window when we were going to Hungary by plane. The bus stood there waiting for a police hut and then a man was escorted into the plane by police force and he resisted. After all, the situation was that three policemen were sitting on this wet asphalt man's face and then tied up with bundles, and at that point the skipper of the plane came down the stairs and indicated that he was not taking that forced-to-turn machine at all and, of course, it was a good sign for us that we could safely get on the plane. Mr President! This government bill is mainly good and important in the sense that this detention of minors, between 15 and 18 years old, is now going to be even less important, in the right direction. I would like to ask the Minister: is this threshold not, however, reduced by the fact that the threshold for imposing an obligation to live is as high as the threshold for detention at present? There were slightly different interpretations here that the threshold will now fall, that the obligation to live will be more easily imposed than that detention. The second question relates to this extension: After all, when the detention order is three days at a time and then can be imposed for the second time three days and this obligation to live can be imposed for two weeks and over another two weeks, was it considered that this period of residence obligation would have been, for example, a week, that is, much shorter than this two weeks now? However, it is quite a large number of days more to what is this three days at the moment, even though the circumstances are much easier.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u59	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! It is perfectly understandable that last year, when the number of asylum seekers exceeded all previous records and faced a new situation in Finland, it has provoked a wide range of and contradictory debates in Finland. A plot in this debate, mainly in the media, has been that Finland today would no longer give value and weight to fundamental human rights or international human rights. Even some authoritative people have publicly stated that fundamental and human rights are no longer fashionable, and it has been suggested that we have laws in relation to foreign affairs that run counter to the fundamental rights of our constitution or to our international human rights obligations. As a result, I would like to say that every amendment to the foreign law or amendment to the law on foreigners that has been given to Parliament in recent years, even before this asylum crisis and now during the asylum crisis, has also been dealt with in the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee. And the argument that the government's proposals on these matters no longer pay attention to the fundamental and human rights aspects is untrue. For example, from page 29, this proposal under discussion contains some five pages of reflection and an assessment of the relationship between this draft law and our constitution and our international human rights treaties. This has been the case for all amendments to the law on foreigners for several years now. This is well known, for example, to the members of the Constitutional Committee present. I myself recall the proposal to abolish reception services from foreigners who no longer had any reason to receive reception services. Even in the Government's proposal, it was argued in the order of precedence that the abolition of reception services from those who are no longer entitled to receive reception services is not incompatible with the Constitution, because such a right to reception services also for those who do not need it is not a right guaranteed by the Constitution. I read it twice in the courtroom because I thought it was such a silly argument. This simply shows that these things have been taken seriously and taken seriously. After all, there is a unique system in Finland that the constitutionality of laws is already assessed by the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee at the time of adoption. In addition, we have the possibility under Article 106 of the Constitution of the Court of Justice to assess the constitutionality of the laws in individual cases. That's Rule 106. read: 'In the case before the Court of Justice, where the application of a provision of the law would be manifestly incompatible with the Constitution, the Court shall give priority to the provision of the Constitution'. Article 106 It has been interpreted in a consistent manner both at the time of adoption and since then that, if, however, the Constitutional Committee of Parliament has taken a position on the matter, then the law cannot be manifestly incompatible with the Constitution and then, after its consideration by the Constitutional Committee, the court cannot consider the constitutionality of this law. Madam Speaker! Now, however, we are apparently colliding with a new phenomenon. On 29 July, Professor Martin Schein was interviewed on the YLE news, specifically in connection with these blackmails of foreign law, and he said, according to the YLE reference: "The way out of the situation for the courts is to assess the constitutionality of the strict forecast," says Schein. The second quote: 'If the stricter provisions of the law are contrary to the Constitution, the courts will have to say, at least indirectly, that Parliament has exceeded its discretion in relation to the Constitution'. In other words, although so far all the legal scholars — as I understand it — have been united that, if the Constitutional Committee of Parliament has assessed and considered the constitutionality of the draft law, the court cannot reconsider the matter, it seems that Martin Schein, in this situation, seems to disagree with this completely unified Finnish system. Well, of course you can disagree on different things if you want to. I would just like to ask a question: has there already been a situation in which lawyers from this fundamentalist school question the authority of the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs as an interpreter of the constitutionality of the laws if the Constitutional Committee does not agree with them in all its interpretations? Madam Speaker! Finally, in the light of Professor Schein's statement, I would like to remind you that every tightening of the foreign law or any other amendment made in recent years has therefore been dealt with in the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u60	Mr President! I would like to thank Mrs Zyskowicz for her very clarifying speech on a subject that has indeed been written in the press and from this very point of view, which she has raised here. This information must be disseminated more simply for the simple reason that, according to the Constitutional Committee, it is the interpretation of these matters and, once done there, it will then be binding.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u61	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz must well know that the fundamental and human rights assessment is not only carried out in the Constitutional Committee but is also done by our courts, as is the case with the European Court of Human Rights. Unfortunately, this judicial process, when it comes to these, and in particular the European Court of Human Rights, is very slow, and even our judicial systems have not yet been able to assess legally this changed asylum policy line in Finland. There have also been a lot of public speeches saying that the decisions of the Finnish Immigration Service and their legality will be tried out in the Administrative Court, i.e. solutions to administrative law are still awaited as regards the current legal interpretations of the Finnish Immigration Service. Nor do I think that this is in line with good governance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u62	Madam President! First of all, it is perfectly natural and entirely in accordance with good governance that in Finland, as in all other constitutional states, the decision of the authority can be appealed to an independent court. This does not mean, and of course cannot mean, that the authority will deliberately take bad or unlawful decisions and will assume that the courts will then correct any possible errors. This right of appeal is about the fact that, although the public authority naturally seeks to interpret the law according to its best ability and judgement, the European Convention on Human Rights already allows all citizens of the States Parties to appeal to the Administrative Court, which is the Finnish Asylum System, today to the Helsinki Administrative Court, for which an appeal can still be submitted to the Supreme Administrative Court. This is perfectly natural, which means that, in the final analysis, the application of Parliament's laws in individual cases is a matter for independent courts. As far as the question of constitutionality is concerned, Mr Andersson, we have a completely strengthened, well-established and, I believe, a system adopted unanimously or almost unanimously, according to which, in situations where the Constitutional Committee of Parliament has assessed the constitutionality of the laws and, according to it, Parliament has acted by correcting them, or, if there is no need, without correcting them, the Court can no longer assess the constitutionality of the law in question separately. If we want to change this system, it is possible, of course, but this is the current system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u63	Mr President! This is not about the right of appeal, but about the fact that this policy on asylum in Finland has also changed as a result of decisions taken by the authorities and also as a result of a changed interpretation of the law, that is, not necessarily even through legislative amendments made in this Chamber, which have also been evaluated in the Constitutional Committee. As regards the decisions taken by the Finnish Immigration Service, it has been estimated, among other things, that this changed interpretation of the Finnish Immigration Service's security situation has had a significant impact on Finland's asylum policy, and the Finnish Immigration Service also applies this possibility of internal escape, which has existed in the past but has not been used and applied on such a scale as is now being done. This policy change has not been evaluated in the Constitutional Committee either, but it is now announced that it will then be seen and tested in the Administrative Court whether the judiciary will accept this changed practice. I do not think this is good governance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u64	Mr President! I too would like to thank Mrs Zyskowicz, the former chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for the way in which you highlighted the role of the Constitutional Committee in the overall work of Parliament. It is important that we understand what the role of the Constitutional Committee is in the constitutionality, constitutionality, ex-ante evaluation and audit of legislation. This is how it's done. The Constitution will ensure that our system is stable. It tells us of the values of Finnish society. When the Constitutional Committee evaluates legislation from a constitutional point of view, then, of course, it interprets the Constitution with its own interpretations, but the practice of the Constitutional Committee is not to change its own interpretations very quickly but to see what has been said on similar issues in the past. In addition to the Constitution, these earlier opinions of the Constitutional Committee are often based on new opinions. In some areas, the interpretations of the Constitutional Committee may have changed somewhat over time, and this may continue to happen, but we will try to turn them very calmly in that committee when the Constitution is being interpreted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u65	Madam President! First of all, Mr Andersson had to say that, yes, you are right, in Finland, we can also appeal to the European Court of Human Rights in individual cases and, through a particular process, also to EU law, which gives us binding solutions. As far as this interpretation and decision-making of the Finnish Immigration Service is concerned, the first is that Parliament amended the laws in so far as, in the past, we had such a category of humanitarian protection, which was not in other countries, this category of humanitarian protection was removed from the legislation adopted by Parliament, which, of course, has been affected by the amendment of the law in individual cases. In fact, I thought at the time that it would have little effect, but obviously these many Iraqi asylum seekers have been in a situation where they could have had a positive solution to the earlier humanitarian protection category, but when it is no longer known by our law, then, of course, their application has been assessed in accordance with the law in force, which therefore only knows asylum and subsidiary protection. Mr Andersson, I believe that the Finnish Immigration Service, like all our agencies and institutions and authorities, who constantly have to apply laws in their daily activities, is doing their best in this work and trying to apply the laws as they have been and intended by Parliament. It is, then, quite different that it is the rule of law that the decisions of the authorities can be appealed to the Court of Justice and then the court will finally rule on the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u66	Mr President! I am one of those who was concerned about this deletion of the humanitarian protection category. I remember how Mr Zyskowicz here spoke of it as a change of law that no one can oppose because it will have no effect on anything. This has affected asylum seekers' access to international protection in Finland. But that is not the only thing that has changed, but these new security guidelines of the Finnish Immigration Service and this change in the application of the internal flight have also had an impact on this general policy on asylum. And they are the changes that have taken place in the work of our authorities: they have not been dealt with here in the Chamber, nor have they been evaluated in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Personally, I am concerned that this changed security interpretation combined with this way of applying this possibility of internal escape to a situation in which, in practice, there is a consistent circumvention of the return ban, which has been a very fundamental principle of asylum policy in both the international refugee and human rights rules.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u67	Madam President! Indeed, as Mr Andersson recalled, when the category of humanitarian protection was removed from our legislation, I thought it was not very many situations, and this was based on the fact that in previous years very few had received international protection precisely on the basis of this category of humanitarian protection. Well, it turned out that I was wrong, and we know that the idea is not worthy of knowledge. In other words, as far as these Iraqis are concerned, I understand that this category of humanitarian protection known to them by previous legislation would have allowed them to have a positive decision in a situation where the need for asylum or subsidiary protection known to them by the current law does not materialise. With regard to this possibility of internal escape: The Government has emphasised in various policies that Finnish administrative practice should seek to be in line with the administrative practice mainly of Sweden and other Nordic countries, in so far as legislation does not apply. I understand that this comparison with the practice of Sweden and some other countries in similar situations, in the case of similar countries and in the case of similar regulations has led to this possibility of internal escape being given more prominence than in some previous situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u68	In the meantime, Minister Risiko's intervention is three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u69	Madam President! I just want to say a few brief words. There has been a very commendable debate here and, in a way, there has also been that constitutionality, and I am not going to repeat it now, because there is a great deal of it in that government proposal. I would just say, in general terms, that this work started at a time when the last government proposal on detention was a statement by the Government and that the intention would be to ban the detention of unaccompanied children in the future. Well, when this statement was made, whether it was possible — here it is found in the Ministry of the Interior's publication 35/2014 — it was found that this could not and cannot be completely removed, even if such a statement were to be made, and it was also found that Finland lacks the general possibility of imposing a residence obligation in a number of countries. Now that we have done so, and I think — if you think about it, too, when you bring me a suggestion that something like this is going on, then I think very carefully that whether this makes sense — this makes sense, because it is precisely the need to develop these new security measures and that alternatives to this detention have been created here. And when it is right to go through this carefully, that what we are going to do here and what we can do, I think that this is precisely an improvement to this current state of affairs. While this is still the case for children, this strengthening of the district court has been very carefully thought out. The question was also raised here about these weeks and so on: yes, they have been considered, and I am sure that when you hear from the committees, the rapporteur will then explain these different options and justify these decisions. Then, of course, whether these options have been discussed, what Mr Andersson asked about: Yes, for example, here in the report, the options for detention have also been discussed. That is what we have come to, and I think they are justified. What is important now, though, is to remember that whatever the situation is, it is always in the best interests of that child. That's what the law requires.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u70	Mr President! I have listened to this debate and we have talked about these detentions. It is now envisaged that these detentions will be reduced. For example, last year there were about a thousand detentions. As the Minister said, the intention is to be able to live in a designated reception centre and register there 1 to 4 times a day, and this is a much softer option. It is known that our asylum seekers have been reduced and further reduced. That is exactly where I was informed when we discussed the previous bill that the Finnish Immigration Service can then determine where these asylum seekers are. Now, by next spring, more than 7,000 will be reduced, and these reception centres, including ours, will end by spring. Now it is possible to better control these reception centres as they come here more limited and no longer exist throughout the country in such a way that they have been difficult to control. When these negative asylum decisions come, I think that this is the right solution for the Finnish Immigration Service to have now ended, according to this decision, more than 2,000 people from all over Finland. All in all, in my opinion, this performance is so much softer. As far as children are concerned, we will leave it, as was mentioned in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs about these traffickings and other detentions, that it is the last thing that is likely to happen, that children who come here alone will not be detained there. I believe that it is also worth relying on the Minister's actions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u71	Madam President! Finally, I would like to draw attention to one point. Parliament therefore removed the so-called humanitarian protection category from our asylum legislation. In the past, we had a real place of asylum for those who fulfil the definition of refugees. Then there was the so-called secondary protection for those who cannot be returned because there would be inhumane treatment. Thirdly, there was the so-called humanitarian protection for those who received a residence permit on the basis of international protection on the grounds that the conditions in their country of origin were generally such that no one could be returned there. After this category of humanitarian protection has been removed, it has been said in the media and perhaps even in the speeches of some politicians that Finland no longer provides international protection on humanitarian grounds. Well, that's the wrong thing to say. The whole of international protection, the whole of asylum policy, is an action based on humanitarian criteria, and the granting of asylum as a whole, the granting of subsidiary protection is therefore a humanitarian activity, and this gives people international protection in Finland on humanitarian grounds. I would hope that, in future, neither the media nor politicians would give the public the wrong impression by claiming that Finland no longer provides international protection on humanitarian grounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u72	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u73	Mr President! The government proposal under discussion requires large multinational companies to report their activities and taxes on a country-by-country basis to tax authorities. This is important if we are to succeed in the fight against the shadow economy and tax evasion. It is estimated that the EU countries will lose as much as EUR 1000 billion per year due to the shadow economy and tax avoidance, and it is estimated that in Finland this amount will move in the order of around EUR 10 to 14 billion, which represents 5% of our country's gross domestic product. As we all know, this money could certainly be used to preserve the welfare society and ensure adequate services for our citizens. However, it is not enough to report the data only to the tax authorities. This information must be made public so that it is also accessible to decision-makers, citizens and journalists. Finland should therefore include in the law under discussion that country-specific tax reports should be published. This has been the case in Great Britain, where national legislation has added the possibility for the state to publish reports. It is also worth noting that this publication would not generate any additional costs for companies. When this law was being drafted, only business opinion was requested. It is therefore important that, as the draft law continues to be discussed in committee, the committee also consults NGOs and the authorities involved in eliminating the shadow economy and tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u74	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u75	Mr President! Approximately half of all rental dwellings in Finland are funded by the state, and their share is most significant, especially in large cities. In particular, there is a shortage of affordable rental dwellings, especially here in the capital region and in large cities elsewhere in Finland. It is therefore good that the government actively seeks and creates conditions for increasing housing construction throughout Finland. Construction and housing also increase employment, and increasing employment is an important priority for the government. Employment must be improved in Finland. This government proposal amends the provisions on general interest which currently restrict the activities of entities that own rental and right-of-occupancy housing that are subsidized by the State far too much. According to the proposal, the requirements for general interest activities would be implemented on a project-by-project basis, not as at present, and the change would increase the interest of operators in state-subsidised rental housing production. However, in order to guarantee the allocation of State aid to residents and the management of State risks, recipients of a subsidised loan should, of course, continue to meet certain conditions, such as the pursuit of long-term rental activities and the solvency of the Community. This is an excellent proposal from the government, and here too I would like to highlight the many government measures that are already increasing construction and housing production.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u76	Mr President! This government proposal hardly has any effect on the construction of housing. Nor is there likely to be any great harm in this. I personally do not believe that new builders will come from this. We need other measures. I understand that the government has understood that the housing policy that started does not produce results, because now we are withdrawing the fact that the long-term interest subsidy was raised to 3.4%. It is now being reduced to 1.7%. It would be good if it were to go there to 1%, because at such a level of interest it would only be important for these affordable rental dwellings to actually be built. It was very good that Parliament unanimously declared to the government that this long-term interest subsidy should be developed. The backweight of the payment of its loans must be changed so that the rent level and the possibility of repairing the entire life of the rented house remain reasonable, i.e. the rent level is reasonable and the repair possibilities are good. So a little progress has been made in this government housing policy, and that is a good thing. That is where we can work together in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u77	Mr President! It is very good to hear that this government proposal is also welcomed from the point of view of the SDP. What is good about this is that the requirements for general interest activities are now being turned into project-specific requirements, that they are not common. This is now likely to increase interest in the production of state-subsidised rental housing, which has unfortunately been waning in recent years, since there have been no means to do so which have resolved that it is also possible to build productively.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u78	Mr President! I said that this is neither good nor bad, because I do not think that this will have much effect. But now it has to be said that during the last government, when this interest rate was 1%, last year, when it was built on the basis of the previous government budget, a very good result was achieved, 8600 apartments. And I realized that now that this happened this year, then the government found that the same methods were being introduced on the previous government list to strengthen housing production. And I think that this is a good thing not to stubbornly go along with the line that was adopted, as it were, but to see better results achieved. On the other hand, I am still very concerned that this ten-year model of interest subsidies is in place and very heavily invested in it. I believe that there is a will in this Parliament to develop this system so that this short interest rate subsidy does not take up the opportunities for this long interest rate subsidy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u79	Mr President! Mr Myller referred in his own speech to this short ten-year model of interest subsidies. It must be remembered that during the last parliamentary term the then government, which, I think, was the Minister of Housing from the SDP, was bringing to Parliament that short model of interest subsidies or intermediate model at the time, but for some reason it did not come to this Parliament. The current government has then introduced this ten-year model of interest subsidies, and Parliament has also decided in the summer — the law has now entered into force on 1.8. — that models will also be developed and sought for the further development of its 40-year model of interest subsidies. That both models are being developed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u80	Mr President! Now, Mrs Torniainen said that she was bringing but did not, and that was because it was not estimated that this model could be used to build genuinely affordable housing. They are too expensive homes, they are too short for rent and they also allow for this sort of interplay, and in the opinion of the Social Democrats no social money can be put on it. But I am very pleased that, together, unanimously in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and then in this Chamber too, the development of this long-term interest rate subsidy has been approved. And now we are waiting for good presentations to be made, based on which Finnish housing policy and people’s ability to live will be improved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u81	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u82	Mr President! This proposal relates to the pension law changes in 2017, and this proposal proposes to amend the church law so that the retirement age of the parish, parish union, capitula and Church Government official is gradually increased from the present 68 to 70 years. This change corresponds to changes in the Employment Pensions Act, which will enter into force at the beginning of 2017, raising the retirement age and the age until which the pension is increased. Similar changes have been made to the Employment Contracts Act, the Act on the Municipal Administrator and the State Civil Service Act. This proposal would improve the legal status of officials and would promote equal treatment between officials and those in employment contracts. The presentation is in line with the Council’s proposal, and the Council was prepared in the Church Government, and it has also been negotiated with the church’s main contracting organizations. So the motion has to be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u83	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u84	Mr President! The proposal is intended to implement the Article of the Energy Efficiency Directive, i.e. the order again from Brussels. In the background, the additional claims raised by the European Commission in its opinion to Finland are haunted. The law would also be supplemented with regard to certain definitions of the Energy Efficiency Directive. The objective is good and lofty, i.e. to strengthen the exemplary role of the public sector in promoting energy efficiency. In order to streamline the regulation, some technical amendments are also proposed. As I said, the objective is good, but the coin also has its darker side in this case. In short, the directive requires the construction of thermos bottles in which living causes indoor air problems and mold diseases — although there is hardly any such thing as this in media discussions and studies. There is a risk that people will become ill with various respiratory diseases and that sick leave days will weaken our country’s low competitiveness. Mr President! In this context, I call for the neo-renaissance of domestic wood and brick construction with pulp and flax insulation, instead of self-warming and self-manufacturing new technologies. More healthy living, even if living here in the Bothnian region costs a little more energy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u85	Mr President! Mr Hongisto's speech was a good one, and I would like to point out precisely this second aspect of improving energy efficiency, namely the reverse side and indoor air problems and mold problems, and hence people's illness. It is very important that we maintain a debate on what energy efficiency can also achieve if it is done wrong or badly. Yes, too tight homes are a problem at the end of the game, however, when people tell us why the home has indoor air problems or even mold. Indoor air problems are a very serious issue in Finland, and it is important that experts are consulted on this proposal as well as taking part in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u86	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u87	Mr President! I believe that this government proposal is justified because the cost of parenting is mainly directed at the employer of a female worker, and this often means that young women of childbearing age often end up in temporary jobs rather than permanent jobs. Therefore, due to their parenthood, there are gaps in their working lives, which can be seen later, for example, as a lower pension level than for men. According to the proposal, the cost of parenting a female worker's family leave would be offset by a lump sum of EUR 2500 paid to the employer, which is not taxable income. The costs of the reform would be financed from labour income insurance by the contribution paid by employers. The objective of a more balanced distribution of financial responsibility for parenting costs between all employers is justified. Reimbursement should be subject to the condition that the employment relationship with the employer has lasted at least three months before the start of the maternity allowance period and is based on a contract of employment for at least one year. It would also be required that the working time of the worker at the beginning of the maternity or adoptive mother's parental allowance period should be at least 80% of the full-time worker's regular working time. Similarly, compensation would be paid to the employer of the adoptive mother when she paid salary during the parental allowance period. The proposal is based on measures to strengthen the Government’s cost-competitiveness. The aim of the reform is to contribute to Finland’s competitiveness by promoting the employment and growth of women-dominated enterprises. Nearly 100 per cent of all enterprises in our country are small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. enterprises employing fewer than 250 people. These enterprises employ 65 per cent of the private sector staff and make more than half of the total turnover of the enterprises. SMEs play a very important role in the economy. For a small company in particular, the cost of parenting is a huge burden. One baby has been considered to pay approximately EUR 17000 for the average monthly salary of an employee to the mother’s employer. The three main items of expenditure are sick leave during pregnancy, holiday allowances on maternity leave and care expenses for the sick child. This has been considered to be a major barrier to the employment of young women and a burden on women-dominated sectors and small entrepreneurs in hiring staff. This reform has been an issue, and so have the Finns of Peru. Women have been driving for years and even decades. The reform is the right step towards a more equal position for women in the labour market and a relief for small entrepreneurs, especially in women-dominated sectors. The key objectives of Finland's Entrepreneurship Women's influencing work this year have been to equalise parental leave expenses in a spirit of solidarity and on a broad tax basis. According to Finnish Entrepreneurs, the objective to distribute more evenly the financial responsibility for the costs of parenting among all employers is the right one, but entrepreneurs wish to expand the funding base further. From the economic point of view of the country, it is particularly important to promote employment and therefore all ways of facilitating the conditions for businesses to operate are welcome. It left me to wonder that this reform does not, I believe, apply to a female entrepreneur who, for example, has to hire a substitute for his own maternity or parental leave. A similar compensation for the parenting costs of an entrepreneur would also encourage and encourage young women to become self-employed. This government proposal would involve some 30,000 employers, and the cost would be about EUR 75 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u88	Mr President! This government proposal improves equal treatment for women, promotes employment, proposes to compensate employers for the costs of parenting for the family leave of a female worker with a lump sum of EUR 2500. This support is proposed to be paid to employers who pay wages for at least one month during the maternity allowance period on the basis of a contract of employment or contract of employment. This government proposal is very good. It equalises the costs of maternity between employers, makes the labour market more flexible, makes it possible to achieve real equality in the labour market, encourages employers to recruit more people regardless of gender, and this has a very strong social interest, which is already contributing to the equality that I have said. This proposal describes this lump sum, which is financed by the employer's health insurance contribution, i.e. it does not affect state expenditure. I think that this proposal is exactly what the Finns of Peru are saying. Women have been driving what Entrepreneurship women have been driving, what women and mothers have always dreamed of driving, and now it is true. As the daughter of a female entrepreneur, of course, I am very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u89	Mr President! In Finland, the female euro is still about 83 cents and the female pension euro is only 75 cents. Many studies have found that one of the main reasons is that a woman spends much longer periods with her children than the father. Part of the reason for this problem is that employers do not favour the father’s parental leave, because the cost to employers is still so high. These costs actually come from three things. Firstly, there are the costs of absenteeism caused by pregnancy, and believe it or not: we are living in 2016, but still no one in this country knows how much of the absences during pregnancy are those for which it is precisely the pregnancy that is responsible or at least the strong motive. All absences during pregnancy go into a single bag with seasonal flu, both the broken arm and the absence of work due to pregnancy sickness. This is an easy point to make now, because Parliament's women's network has taken a policy initiative that costs nothing and which is not in any way political, but which seeks to find out how many absences we actually have due to pregnancy. This is only so that in the future, when we take decisions, we will be able to take decisions based on knowledge and not on belief, as has been the case so far. Well, of course, these parenting costs are very high from the time the baby is small. Wage and holiday expenses for maternity and parental leave are reimbursed by Kela to the employer of the mother, but only partially. In total, a mother who still earns the average wage will have to pay the employer some EUR 7000 during maternity and parental leave. When the cost of nursing a sick child under 10 years of age is included, this total of the three regions totals EUR 17570 — the amount of money for the average paid woman, and the average salary based on which the calculation has been made is EUR 3300 per month. Finnish Self-employed women have conducted a comprehensive survey together with Finnish Entrepreneurs, which was answered by around 1000 entrepreneurs, about how much you are home with a sick child under 10 years of age. The conclusion of this study and study was that the clear average was 5 days per child. As the mother of two reasonably healthy children, I can see this as a very moderate sum and quantity, because, given seasonal flu, stomach diseases, vaccines and so on, 5 days a year is not an overestimation, but I still stress that even this figure is not exactly known, this is just an estimate. In Sweden, all these figures are well known, and in Sweden, by the way, all expenses will be reimbursed 100% to the employer. That, of course, is the next big goal. It is really great that in this time the government takes this step and pays EUR 2500 for baby money to the employer of every mother who gives birth. I think this is a very fine gesture in a situation that is not economically easy. But we have the Swedish model as an example, which we should also learn from in Finland. In Sweden, therefore, it is the practice that all these expenses, which have now been mentioned, be borne jointly and severally, both by the absence of pregnancy and by the wage and holiday costs of maternity and parental leave and by the care costs of a sick child under the age of 10. That money is collected in connection with social insurance contributions from both employees and employers. And believe it or not, all employers' organisations and workers' organisations consider it a very fair practice in Sweden. Together with the fact that fathers have been tailored to one third of parental leave, it has also led to fathers holding about 25% of parental leave, which is certainly the world’s top figure, and I think it is also close to the maximum figure because the mother is the one who still breast-feeds the baby. When compared, for example, with Finland’s figure — well under 10 per cent of parental leave in Finland is held by fathers — there is a huge difference, and of course we want to pursue the same situation here in Finland, which is already the case in Sweden. The Swedish model will serve as a good example for us in the future, but a big thank you to the government for this EUR 2500 baby money. It is also worth remembering that we have also been presented with different models of family leave. I am pleased that the model presented by the SAK has received support across party boundaries. It is a very exceptional model, firstly by encouraging fathers to leave their family, by making it easier to reconcile family and work and by making the current system more flexible, but above all it does not add to the costs of the current situation, and that is why it is worth taking this model seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u90	Mr President! On 8 March 2015, Prime Minister Juha Sipilä presented the initiative of the Centre for Women's Day that EUR 2500 could be granted as a lump sum to the mother's employer. Now this government proposal is here in the Chamber, and I am very pleased that we have achieved it so far. This is an important step in the right direction towards a more equal Finland. The excellent thing about this proposal is that it takes account of both the biological mother and the adoptive mother, both of them can have it. The distribution of the cost of parenting clearly promotes more equal treatment of women in employment, employment and even the length of employment contracts. This will facilitate the recruitment of new workers by small companies, especially women-dominated companies. As has been heard in previous speeches, it is clear that our family leave system is no longer in line with the present situation, so there are so many different family situations in Finland. The need for reform is very clear, and this reform must certainly be carried out in the longer term. It must aim specifically at clarity, flexibility and the fact that different family situations in different combinations are always taken into account, so we still have a huge amount of work to do here, but this is a good step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u91	The 15th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 14/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-28-ps-91.u92	Mr President! It is indeed a government proposal to the Parliament to amend the Security Clearance Act and Article 20a of the Law on International Information Security Obligations. The Government's proposal therefore proposes to amend this Security Investigation Act in such a way as to make the protection police the only competent authority in the Ministry of the Interior in this area of security clearance. In addition, it is proposed to amend this law so that the exemption from the payment of the security clearance would no longer apply to the administrative authorities of the Ministry of the Interior or to the application of the educational institution. Some technical clarifications are also proposed. It is also proposed to introduce a kind of technical amendment to the International Law on Information Security Obligations. These proposed laws are intended to enter into force from the beginning of January 2017. It should be stressed that the Administrative Committee proposes the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the Government proposal as unchanged and does so unanimously. So, one more time: With this in mind, it is proposed to concentrate all the security studies in the Ministry of the Interior's administrative sector on the task of the protection police. On the basis of a report presented to the committee from the beginning of 2016, the centralisation of security clearances by administrative order to the protection police has already, before that, achieved significant benefits in terms of equal treatment between citizens and the applicant organisations in the security inquiry. What, then, does this mean with regard to the payment of security clearances? In practice, the proposed amendment means that security investigations carried out by the Protection Police will continue to be subject to a charge even if the security clearance is sought by another authority in the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior. This proposed amendment will contribute to reducing internal security clearances and thus the costs incurred. At the same time, however, the committee stresses that the number of persons entitled to use the safety clearance register must be kept limited. The committee is also pressing for a register to be put in place. Mr President! When there's no one here to listen to me anymore, I'll finish my presentation here.
