ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 2/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The general discussion will be opened by Mr Mattila, Chairman of the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u2	President! The proposal proposes to amend the Firearms Act by adding a reference to the regulation on deactivation standards and techniques for firearms adopted by the European Commission. The Deactivation Regulation is therefore directly applicable. The Deactivation Regulation contains provisions on authorisation, verification, certification, requests for assistance, marking of weapons, complementary measures, transfer of weapons to another Member State and notification obligations. In other words, this Deactivation Regulation sets minimum requirements for deactivation, allowing Member States to introduce additional national measures. It is proposed to amend the Firearms Act in such a way that a permanently deactivated weapon or part of a weapon rendered inoperable may also be presented to the Police Board or to a police department other than the municipality or place of residence of the holder of the permit. This proposal will therefore make the procedure more flexible for the individual holder of the weapon when the location of residence is waived. But an inspection by the police government may still be necessary when special equipment, for example, is needed. In addition, the committee proposes an amendment to section 115, which is not included in the draft law. The committee proposes that Customs be added to this as a supervisory authority and the related changes, as the monitoring function follows from the Commission's deactivation proposal. The committee has been briefed on the importance of the Deactivation Regulation and the Firearms Act for deactivated firearms acquired from the Defence Forces. This report states that the Firearms Act does not therefore apply to the repair and conversion of firearms and their components in the Defence Forces, including the deactivation of firearms, but this Regulation does apply to private partners of the Defence Forces and to private individuals and companies and their parts. In other words, deactivated firearms acquired from the Defence Forces must meet the requirements of the Firearms Act and the al-manage regulations adopted pursuant to it. The requirements of the Deactivation Regulation shall apply to previously deactivated weapons acquired by individuals and companies from the Defence Forces when the Regulation begins to apply. Then there are a few aspects: In other words, this Deactivation Regulation does not apply to weapons that have been deactivated before the date of application on 8 April 2016, unless these firearms are transferred to another EU Member State or placed on the market. There is also a free-of-charge transfer or exchange. According to the report received by the committee, costs are incurred. The fee to be paid in connection with the inspection is laid down in the Ministry of the Interior Decree on the payment of police supplies. Costs may arise from measures taken by the armssmith, which are case-specific. The above applies also to the following: Deactivated firearms acquired from the Defence Forces in accordance with previous guidelines. The committee considers it necessary for the Police Government to inform police services, the arms industry, arms enthusiasts of the procedures under this Commission regulation, including any division of labour between police services and the Police Government in the inspection of a firearm or part of a weapon. The police government must clarify and then inform the parties mentioned about the possible reactivation of the previously deactivated firearms. This report by the Administrative Committee is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u3	Madam President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Firearms Act by adding a reference to the European Commission's Regulation on Deactivation Standards and Technologies for Firearms. A firearm which has been permanently unfired and a part of the weapon that has been permanently rendered unfit could also be presented to the Police Board or to a police department other than the municipality or place of residence of the holder of the permit. In this respect, the proposal is very much to be welcomed. The proposed law amending the Firearms Act is linked to the European Commission Implementing Regulation of December 2015 laying down common guidelines on deactivation standards and techniques to ensure that deactivated firearms are permanently rendered unfired. The Deactivation Regulation is directly applicable law and does not give Finland much privileges. EU Member States will have to apply the Deactivation Regulation as from 8 April 2016, which means that thanks to this regulation belong in particular to the European Union. In this proposal, the Deactivation Regulation sets minimum requirements for deactivation, allowing Member States to introduce additional national measures. In the Government's proposal, it is proposed to include an informative reference to the Deactivation Regulation in the Firearms Act. The fact that a gun can be played at a police station other than where it lives makes sense. It will make the procedure more flexible for an individual gunfighter when he is given up his seat. I believe that an inspection carried out by the police administration may be necessary, in particular, and only when the inspection and marking of the inspection require specialised equipment and skills. I think that many police stations already have enough of this expertise. The Firearms Act and the Commission Deactivation Regulation also apply to private partners of the Defence Forces and to individuals and parts of firearms and parts of firearms handed over to individuals and businesses outside the Defence Forces. This means that firearms that have been deactivated by private individuals and companies must meet the requirements of the Firearms Act and the lower-level regulations adopted pursuant to it. The directive therefore also applies to firearms acquired from the Defence Forces, which have been deactivated in accordance with previous guidelines. According to the Directive, previously deactivated firearms may not meet the requirements of the Deactivation Regulation. I do not think that this amendment makes sense. The weapons have already been deactivated by professionals, so that should continue to be enough. Checking, of course, also pays. The fee to be paid in connection with the deactivation check is laid down in the Ministry of the Interior Decree on the payment of police performances, which is probably a few dozen euros per weapon. In addition, costs arise from deactivation measures carried out by the gunsmith, which are always case-specific. The proposal will increase the cost of the owner of the weapon in this respect, so I do not support the proposal in this regard. I know companies that have acquired hundreds, even thousands, of deactivated weapons from the Defence Forces. In the event of non-approval by law or separate regulation Deactivation by the military, which meets even stricter technical requirements, must be stamped by the weaponssmiths of Poha. The final charges will be passed on to future buyers of arms. Madam President! Gun owners and gun enthusiasts are very good for milking. They are constantly being punished for acts of terrorism in the world, but they will not give up. They continue their hobby as long as one of the enthusiasts has a gun and a place where the hobby can be safely practiced. I would like to see an end to this type of garrisoning of gun enthusiasts. We do not always have to stand in the way of the EU, but we can also think about things quite independently. I look forward to the time when children’s toys are found illegal. At the moment, the idea of it seems utopian, but with certainty it will come true.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u4	Madam President! The good thing about these deactivation orders, as far as this new bill and the law are concerned, is that they are not now applied retrospectively to all weapons. After all, a deactivated weapon plays a very important role in maintaining the will to defend the country, among other things, and the fact that we have weapons collectors is also a piece of our strong history. But, Madam President, we have much bigger questions ahead of us this year when the arms directive is on the table in the EU. National defence is the defining factor in this, which is why we must continue to use self-charged single firearms, especially for reservists, but also for other enthusiasts. That is why I am very pleased that we in Finland have managed to get a unanimous position to leave here and defend it on all the EU tables, but of course we still have a lot to do, and I also appeal here to all the other government and parliamentary parties that we can bring this together to the finish line, that we can continue with this good hobby.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u5	Madam President! Mr Kulmala said quite rightly when he said that there should not be a slump in front of the EU and, referring to what Mr Savola said, this year is really going to be a very important issue in which the Minister: Niinistö has said very clearly that Finland cannot accept the line that the Commission is currently taking in the Arms Directive. I myself was the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in a large committee, and I have noted with joy even beyond the opposition-government border the unity of the defence of the exceptional situation in Finland compared to other EU countries on this issue. At the moment, things are looking good. Minister Orpo has publicly stated that countries such as Sweden, Norway, Germany and the countries of Eastern Europe are in line with Finland in this respect, and even the majority of all EU countries would be in line with Finland on the five key issues that are important to Finland. It is looking good at the moment, and in that sense I can assure Mr Kulmala that there is no and should not be a mess.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u6	Madam President! I don't think anyone in front of the EU wants to be in trouble. It is a good thing to remind you, too, of the representative. Angle what we were both listening to in that parliamentary committee when we discussed the issue that is why this deactivation system has been introduced. In the background of the attacks in Paris, and even though deactivated weapons were apparently not used there, this possibility is now being removed. I think it's good in itself. I think it is very good and necessary, as the committee also pointed out in its report, that the Police Government should inform the owners of deactivated weapons of this change. With regard to information, it is also important to recall where this obligation of inspection comes into force. It'll soon be if the owner of the deactivated weapon turns over the weapon or sells it again. With regard to this European Arms Directive, I would also like to say that the Social Democrats, for example, in the Committee on Defence, agreed with the view that in the case of reserve weapons: Finland would apply for an exemption.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u7	Mr President! Representative Kulmala made an excellent point about how Finnish responsible gun enthusiasts are also still being charged, if not even bullied, for their legitimate interest in national defence.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u8	Madam President! It is true that the bigger questions are now coming up with this European Arms Directive, and Finland's position on it has been very firm and should remain so. We must ensure that voluntary national defence can continue in this country, and the continuity of shooting and hunting activities must also be ensured. The government proposal before us is in fact quite good, but the impact of this must be monitored. It is clear that we currently have deactivated weapons in this country, such as the Defence Forces Deactivation Certificates. We now need to see whether the deactivation certificates will then be accepted or whether new ones will also be required. Personally, I see that it is absolutely essential that these Defence Forces certificates, which were issued in due course when arms were abandoned, should be accepted when deactivated weapons are presented to the police.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u9	One more response.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u10	Mr President! As far as I know, the deactivation certificate comes with the gun to the owner of the gun, but there's no record of it in the police records. Representative Kari stated that the Police Government was given an obligation to inform and inform the owners of deactivated weapons of the upcoming review. It is interesting to consider that an obligation is given to educate, but if the owner of the weapon does not receive this information, will he commit a crime and thus be able to be sanctioned? This is an interesting situation. The second thing I am thinking about here is that if a deactivated weapon is used at the time of the old law, the term'may be placed on the market', can the owner of a deactivated weapon at the time of this old law hand it over without consequences to another person without it being re-checked. If such revisions have to be carried out, I believe that the police will have enough work to do to recheck these weapons.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u11	Madam President! The Ministry of the Interior and Poha have been asked about this issue that if, for example, the company has 500 Finnish machine guns deactivated, for example, it is not enough under this directive, but needs to be reactivated. After all, if you do not believe in the skills of deactivation of the Defence Forces, then you have to deactivate the weapon and it costs the buyer or seller. This can't be happening.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u12	Madam President! It is understandable that this binding directive of the EU must be put into effect, although this will create completely unnecessary bureaucracy and once again increase unnecessary visits to police stations or to the police administration. This debate, which took place a moment ago, well highlighted the ideas that I myself have raised here in the past with regard to non-deactivated weapons. It would be justifiable, as Mr Kärnä pointed out above, that the Defence Forces' deactivation certificate would be sufficient in the future and could be passed on to the data registers, so that this deactivation certificate should also be registered and the quantities of these weapons would also be known in Finland. In fact, our country's firearms legislation has been reformed several times in recent years. The changes have often been made on a very fast schedule and, you might say, sometimes with an almost panicky response to various very regrettable events in themselves. Every shooting at school or any other shooting is always a serious matter, and it must be taken seriously — I am not saying that this is not the case — but it is often forgotten that the cause lies in something other than our arms legislation. I understand most of the reforms that we may have made over the last eight to ten years, but I believe that there are already a number of problems and ambiguities in our legislation that can already significantly complicate responsible and safe shooting, shooting and also Finnish hunting. A good point is, in fact, that in general we shooting enthusiasts, we hunters are even more integrityless than average people. The reason is clear: weapons possession permits can be lost if you commit a crime, such as drunken driving. A while ago, we also tightened up weapons-reservation clothing. They received a very broad acceptance. It's good to keep the guns safe. I also believe that, in certain circumstances, the acquisition of a weapon has been made unnecessarily employable by the authorities, and it is not even justified in terms of safety, for example, to demand that all new weapons be shown to the police. This bill, which is now under discussion, concerns deactivated weapons, but we therefore have legislation in place which requires every new weapon to be displayed at the police station. It was pointed out that our police have good knowledge of these weapons. I myself have a few different experiences of how, for example, in a little more unusual weapons, police officers often have to ask for help, for example, to find numbers from the owner of the gun. In fact, the legislation goes so that anyone who has a licence to carry a similar weapon can see that gun and even do so by taking, for example, 20 guns at a time to be checked by the police. The question is whether this makes sense even for safety. In my opinion, a sufficient guarantee that the gun and the license will be met is that the weapon has been purchased from a legitimate arms dealer. The obligation of evidence, that is to say this duty of evidence to the police, could only be limited to situations where trade takes place between, for example, two private persons. Secondly, I think it would be justified to reduce the scope of the firearms licensing procedure, for example, in situations where an old licensed weapon is renewed into a similar type of newer weapon, i.e. without an increase in the total number of weapons. The authorisation process for such a situation is currently unreasonable and completely unnecessary. I would like to see the Minister of the Interior, Mr Petteri Orpo, also active in this sector in the midst of all other work-related activities, so that our arms legislation is moderated where it makes sense. It was pointed out here in the debate that the Social Democrats have supported the Finnish line in the EU Firearms Directive, that is, a strict line that we would not accept it, but we have heard other voices from the Social Democrats. For example, former Foreign Minister Tuomioja said that there was a greater risk that one day such a semi-automatic weapon would end up in the hands of some supi-Finnish breivik with disastrous consequences, and with such words he supported the EU Firearms Directive. In my opinion, this was reasonably outrageously said about Finnish reservists, hunters and gunmen. He also had completely incorrect information on the level of training in our voluntary defence, but it was good that Mr Kari, a member of the Committee on Administrative Affairs, pointed out here that they had support. This week, Home Secretary Orpohan said that Finnish arms stocks have received significant support from other EU countries. He said that Sweden, Norway and Germany were in complete agreement with Finland, and that the countries of Eastern Europe were largely in line with us. For example, we have been calling for weapons to continue to be purchased on the Internet, for civilians to be entitled to acquire semi-automatic weapons, which is essential for our reserve army, and for those under 18 years of age to continue to acquire weapons for sports and hunting activities. I would like to thank the Minister for Defence, Mr Niinistö, and Mr Petteri Orpo, our Minister for the Interior, for their active work and for the fact that this is now turning to the model that the Committee on Defence has unanimously called for from the point of view of the fundamental credibility of defence. This proposal, which is before us today, therefore concerns deactivated weapons, and there are many of them in Finland, and hopefully there will also be sensible solutions for this in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u13	Madam President! I would like to thank Mr Heino for his excellent speech and also Mr Kulmala for bringing this issue of deactivation to the attention of Parliament. I would like to say here to the whole Chamber that I hope that we can send a message together to the Police Government that, yes, the guidelines must now be changed in order to respect the skills of the Defence Forces in deactivation and to accept the Deactivation Certificates issued by the Defence Forces there as evidence from the police institutions that an absolutely genuine weapon of this kind has been rendered unshootable. If this cannot be trusted, then what can we trust in this country?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u14	Madam President! Mr Heinonen said that this regulation would involve unnecessary bureaucracy. Although I do support this unanimous proposal and I believe that this is balancedly drafted, I am somewhat concerned that there will still be more tasks for our authorities, such as the police administration's task of providing information on the police, on the arms industry and on the arms industry. Similarly, Customs will be given additional control tasks to ensure that deactivated weapons from another Member State of the European Union have appropriate certificates and markings,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u15	Madam President! This small part, which was now before the Administrative Committee, is unanimous, as has been said, and we support the fact that this is something like this, although I was also amazed at why this one part must be imported when we know that the actual EU directive, which then has a number of things, is coming. Mr Heinonen's comment: it is quite clear that different parties have different views, but we have seen over the years that there has been a need for Finnish legislation and there is now a need to make changes on the arms front. It's understandable, because the world is changing. At the moment, Internet commerce is quite different from what it was a few years ago. We've had a lot to fix in our permit policy. New practices are needed in deactivation. We have weapons that are not currently registered in any of these deactivations. They are still not registered if they do not change ownership. We still have a number of points where we will probably have to tighten up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u16	Madam President! Indeed, we have also had the problem of granting arms permits in general, that the practices have varied depending on the police department. That is why this communication by the Police Government, both in this matter and in any case, is extremely important for the various police agencies throughout Finland, and it is good that this message is now being transmitted and will be addressed. As far as this Defence Forces Deactivation Certificate is concerned, while these new deactivation certificates and displays are still needed, we must be able to deal with it with as little bureaucracy as possible so that it does not impose an unreasonable burden on arms owners, arms enthusiasts. We must remember the starting point when the whole of the arms legislation is now being tightened up by the EU, because we here are talking about honest arms enthusiasts, who have the permits in order, who have all done what they must have done, and that is what we have to defend here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u17	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Heinos, for your comprehensive speech. As a member of the Administrative Committee, I would like to make it clear to the whole large Chamber that we have been very united in this matter. On the other hand, Mr Heinonen pointed out that even quickly these changes in the firearms law were forced to work. Of course, this is all about this deactivation, and fortunately it was possible to do it quickly now, because the regulation will actually enter into force on 8 April and the legislative requirements have only left the EU since the beginning of this year. But I would also like to point out that last autumn the Administrative Committee launched very extensive and diverse expert consultations on this whole reform of the Firearms Act and, in that sense, we are also ready for those legislative requests. We share the situation picture and it is very similar regardless of the party, so in that sense Finland's position is clear and ministers Orpo and Niinistö can continue to do so. Thank you for the job.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u18	Madam President! We have made a number of stricter arms legislation, including after these school shootings. If I remember correctly, one of them was where the shooter got the legal way of the gun, but usually in such cases, where the gun is used for criminal activities, they are illegal weapons and people are sick. As in this case, a person should not have received that weapon and should have received other kinds of help. Perhaps the stakes should be focused on ensuring that such people, who suffer from different mental health problems, receive help first and foremost. These tightening ups that have now been made in Finland have been such that they have been unduly targeted at honest Finnish hunters and reservers. As I said in my speech, they have a claim so strict that even one drink-driving, which is a serious crime, can already affect the fact that the hobby goes with it, that is to say, loses the licenses. That is why, as I said, they generally work in a very responsible manner. Finally, on deactivation, Mr President, only that I would like to see such official certificates, for example: Defence forces or other certified deactivaters should be sufficient here, because I know that the police do not know as much about these weapons as the people who have done the deactivation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-11-ps-23.u19	There is still a real speaker on behalf of Mrs Talvitie. Was it meant to be used? — No, it wasn't.
