ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u1	The third issue in the order of business is the topical debate on the elimination of tax evasion and tax avoidance. The debate will be opened by the first signatory of the debate initiative, Mr Outi Alanko-Kahiluoto. He shall take the floor for a maximum of ten minutes. Mr Stubb, Minister for Finance, will speak next, up to a maximum of five minutes. The other speeches shall be reserved by means of a P button and shall not exceed 2 minutes. I will give the floor in the order that I consider. In addition, I will, at my discretion, give one minute's answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u2	Madam President! Eliminating tax evasion and tax avoidance is a topical and urgent issue throughout the world. As a result of the tax break, funds are lost that are out of service and people’s well-being. The sum lost annually by EU countries to the informal economy and tax avoidance exceeds their combined health budget. Finland also loses hundreds of millions of euros every year. The tax flight makes a gap in the Finnish economy, which the state is seeking to fill. The sitting government has cut the most from the weaker. In all countries, it is the ordinary low-income people who have suffered most from tax evasion. Tax avoidance is a major reason for the increase in inequality. The world’s richest percent own more than the rest of the world combined, and inequality continues, both within and between countries. For developing countries, the tax haven economy is the most disastrous: the poorest countries have more than 800 billion dollars in untaxed capital each year in tax havens for a small rich elite. This amount corresponds to nine times the total amount of development aid. Aggressive tax planning by large companies is also a huge flaw. It is paid for by small and medium-sized enterprises which are not able or willing to use tax planning services and therefore lose their competitive position. Tax evasion and tax avoidance must finally be taken seriously. Finland must also do everything possible to achieve a better tax collection rather than voluntarily donating our common funds to tax havens. Several major tax avoidance projects are underway in the EU and the OECD. However, the Finnish Government has not put forward any concrete new measures to prevent tax evasion and tax avoidance. On the contrary, Finland has taken a hard look at a number of projects that increase tax transparency and limit the opportunities for tax evasion. So far, Finland has been more a brake man than a solver in tax haven issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u3	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u7	Next up, Minister Stubb, five minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u8	Madam President! The debate is very topical and today we will probably be discussing two sets of issues, one relating to the prevention of tax evasion and the other to the fight against the shadow economy. This is also timely in the sense that about a week and a half ago I was in Washington at a spring meeting in which a long discussion took place within the framework of the IMF and with international colleagues, not just on Panama but on tax evasion in general, and, secondly, at the end of last week — Thursday, Friday and Saturday — we had an Ecofin meeting in Amsterdam where this became the main theme. I believe that each of us in this Chamber has a common goal, and that is to eradicate the shadow economy and tax evasion. Why? Because it undermines and narrows the funding base for the welfare state, I therefore agree with the previous speaker on this general objective to a large extent. In this debate, I will also highlight six concrete measures that we are taking to combat the shadow economy and six on the basis of tax evasion. But in this introductory speech, I will go over the whole in general. We cannot accept a system that increases the funding base of the welfare state and the tax burden on honest businesses and taxpayers through the shadow economy and tax evasion. That is a common goal for all of us. After all, our aim is that tax revenue should be collected as fairly and efficiently as possible, and surely there are no two words about it, and in practice that means that we must have as broad a tax base as possible and low tax rates and loopholes in the tax system as possible. After all, everything is based on the fact that capital largely moves freely in today's world economy, which means that if we want to eradicate the black economy if we want to combat tax evasion, then the best way to do so is of course international cooperation. After all, this focuses on three entities, the first of which is the OECD BEPS, with 15 measures, the second is the EU and related legislation, and the third is the bilateral agreements that Finland is concluding along the way. I disagree with the previous speaker that the government would in some way have been passive or not at the forefront. I can very well quote, for example, the speech I made in Amsterdam after a while. Yes, we have assumed that Finland has been active in the fight against tax evasion and the shadow economy in promoting international cooperation. We have been at that forefront in almost all of our speeches. An example: the BEPS project against the erosion of OECD tax bases and the transfer of profits, which we have been at the forefront of, is of course also based on the anti-tax avoidance directive currently being prepared by the Commission, which is seeking to reach an agreement at the Ecofin meeting in Brussels in May. In Amsterdam itself, I talked a lot about the fact that Panama paper was a game changer — a game changer in the sense that we now also have the opportunity, within the framework of the EU, to act as quickly as possible, and it is worth taking advantage of this moment. Of course, our aim is to tax the income of companies in the country where the result is generated. This involves the country-by-country reporting of tax data between authorities already agreed in March and the national preparation for the implementation of the directive, which is currently under way in Finland. There are also other entities that will probably be dealt with today. Avoiding taxes. Of course, it must also be influenced by national legislation, and a short, quick list of what we have already done on the side of these provisions, i.e. in Finland in general: intermediate communities, restrictions on the right to deduct interest, a general tax avoidance provision, transfer pricing rules and a limited hybrid provision based on the Parent and Subsidiary Directive, whose further development will also be assessed in the context of EU and OECD projects. Of course, all of this involves an automatic international exchange of tax information, and that is what we agreed already within the framework of the EU in March so that the exchange of information takes effect at the beginning of 2017 and concerns the 2016 tax data. So there's a lot going on in this area. A strategy to combat the shadow economy, it was completed a few weeks ago. There's been a lot of talk about resources. We will go through this whole and then we will also consider whether there is a need for additional resources. Internal security budget, 50 million. Just now, I met the leaders of all the agencies, and Customs said that they have spent roughly 4 million of the 50 million on fighting the black economy. The establishment of a Incomes Register is a good project to combat the shadow economy. It is an obligation to report wage data instead of annual reporting, which allows real-time tax supervision. The fight against money laundering, the financing of terrorism, is being stepped up within the EU, and preparations are well advanced in Finland. The Parent-Subsidiary Directive will be taken forward. And then let us not forget the bilateral tax exchange agreements and tax agreements that are being concluded on an ongoing basis. Finally, Madam President, aware that I have already exceeded my time by 36 seconds, I would say that bilateral tax treaties will not cease to exist either, as an example of which is the tax agreement with Spain, and at the Ecofin meeting this weekend we received confirmation from a Portuguese colleague that we will also be able to conclude a new agreement with Portugal, in line with the objectives of Finland, on the taxation of pensions, among other things. The sum of summrum, tax evasion is a phenomenon that needs to be addressed with a very hard hand. The more effective the exchange of information between countries, as well as other electronic means of control, the better the opportunities for public authorities to cope with criminals. In other words, the fight is often continued tirelessly through various measures, both at national and international level. Against this background: this debate is timely, interesting and I look forward to it. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u9	Thank you. — First of all, we are going to these two-minute speeches, first of all, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u10	Madam President! It is very welcome that the government affirms that it is taking the tax break seriously. Beautiful speech — but we are now waiting for action. The Minister of Finance was surprised by the criticism that the Finnish Government had been inaccessible or passive in addressing tax evasion. What did I point to? Following the last major tax avoidance leak, a special committee on tax loopholes was set up in the European Parliament last autumn at the initiative of the Greens. In this case, Finland was among those countries that did not provide documents to investigate or detect these loopholes in taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u11	Madam President! The government has no credibility in resisting tax evasion and tax planning. It's only highlighted when you compare government activity before and after Panama's papers. The government had a good legacy. Quote: "Finland seems to be seeking the role of a pioneer in the fight against tax havens and tax evasion." This is how Helsingin Sanomat Jutta Urpilainen called the first EU meeting against tax evasion three years ago. However, Finland is no longer a pioneer, but a follower. The leading project of the previous government was the programme against the shadow economy. It was wrecked by the Sipilä government. The money was taken, the staff was reduced. After intense criticism, some of the money was returned afterwards, but less than half, and the damage had already been done. What did the government do before the Panama leak? The government offered a bill of amnesty for tax evaders, in which the tax offence of millions of euros would have made petty scratches. In addition, the government offered to hide direct ownership in management registers and two government ministers had acquired practical experience in tax havens or tax planning. What about after the Panama leak? Suddenly there is a conversion, suddenly the government has some nominal action and declarations every day. It takes credit for the EU's actions, but they are only in their early stages. Therefore, instead of words, we must focus on actions. Will Finland continue to slow down, as has been the case so far? So is it faith or hypocrisy? This is also an opportunity to prove the words by action. Answer me, Minister Stubb: Do you support public access, public access to the European Register of Owners? Are you in favour of public access, that is, public access to the country-specific publication of company profits and taxes? Yes or no? Are you also in favour of full transparency in Brussels and not just in the light of lightning?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u12	Madam President! Even though the current government's mercenaries to date are not particularly good at preventing tax evasion and putting tax havens under control, I want to look ahead and hope that in the future we will take big steps here. Of course, this is made easier by the fact that at least two ministers in the government also have practical experience of how to organise companies in tax havens. You also have to give thanks when you have a place to thank. Mr Stubb, as he mentioned, was able to renegotiate the tax treaty with Portugal when a left-wing government came to Portugal. Imagine if there was a left-wing government in Finland, how well tax havens would be handled. Madam President! We need to get tax havens and illegal money hidden, hidden and rolled around. But at the same time we must remember that at least a large part of this problem is legal aggressive avoidance of taxes. It is not enough for us to condemn and say that we do not accept criminal activity — which no one accepts — but we must also make criminal activity that is now legally avoiding taxes, through what is known as legal tax evasion. Examples of what we should do: we should prevent tax evasion by means of insurance cover, holding companies and other arrangements of this kind. We should extend the scope of the intermediate law so that artificially displayed income in a low-tax country is taxed in Finland, or, for example, take a model from Sweden: remove loopholes in legislation restricting the right to deduct interest.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u13	Madam President! In many ways, the grey economy is one of the most important challenges facing our society, as has been said. In Finland, the grey economy causes direct loss of tax revenue to society, undermines the general tax morality and makes it more difficult for companies engaged in legal activities to compete. The fight against the shadow economy requires decisive action from the state. The key is to reduce the possibilities for committing crimes, increase the risk of being caught and improve the response capacity of public authorities in the detection and fight against the shadow economy. And the police, the prosecution, the judiciary, Customs that the Tax Administration therefore needs sufficient resources to combat the shadow economy effectively. Contributions to the fight against the shadow economy quickly pay back many times as tax revenue that would otherwise not come to the State. During the last government term, RKP was very active in the government's implementation of the programme to combat the shadow economy. That is why we also proposed in our shadow budget an additional EUR 20 million to combat the shadow economy in the 2016 budget. I see now that it is a good start that the government, too, has taken this challenge that we have raised seriously by publishing a strategy to combat the black economy and economic crime and by setting up a parliamentary working party to monitor the black economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u14	Madam President! This debate initiative is very important and I think it will also work well as a referral to the work of the parliamentary working group which will start its work on tax evasion and the informal economy. In order to combat tax evasion, the whole chain of authorities against the shadow economy and financial crime must be in order. There must be no bottlenecks due to the lack of resources, which means that we need sufficient resources for the tax administration, the police, the prosecutor, Customs, the judiciary. Yes, at the moment, the very great concern about this is precisely when we look at the coming years in the light of the government's recent budgetary frameworks. For example, with regard to the police in practice in 2019, and already in 2018, we will have several hundred fewer police officers if these frameworks proposed by the government are implemented, and it is quite clear that there will not be enough police resources in the fight against the shadow economy either. The same problem lies with the Tax Administration. There are currently only 15 international tax evasion researchers working there. More resources would definitely be needed to deal effectively with these crimes. It is known that one official will bring back tenfold the contribution it makes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u15	Madam President! We all hear transparency, ethics, honesty, that is important when we talk about aggressive tax planning. I hope that the opposition also remembers these principles and does not go out and stigmatise people and actors unnecessarily and incorrectly. Indeed, a lot has happened now in the international, global prevention of tax evasion. Above all, the International Information Exchange Directive, which includes both the OECD and the USA and the EU as well as the G20, will change the world. The world is no longer exactly the same as it has been until 1 January 2017. Transparency is clearly increasing. These legislative projects are very important, to which Mr Stubb referred and which are currently being prepared in Finland and prepared by Ecofin, in connection with this BEPS project. Then, Mr President, these law firms do not have these really large companies, international companies, which do not necessarily pay very much taxes for anything. They enter into direct agreements with countries, including the EU founding countries, the Benelux countries. This is intolerable when we have the same currency and everything else, and it is good that the Commission has brought State aid actions in these matters, obviously also successful. In this way, too, this matter is getting better. It is certainly the case that the atmosphere is also affected. People today will also vote with their feet if they see that some company does not follow ethics in these matters. It is also good that there are large companies at EU level, really large companies, now obliging them to tell us what they are paying their taxes. I think the Finnish Government has been active in this whole time, at the forefront. This assessment, my auditor's assessment, is based on facts. I think this job,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u16	Mr President! As far as tax evasion is concerned, we should be clear. Tax evasion is disgusting corruption and miserable free travel. The tax evader exploits the benefit of society to himself and to his lobby without giving back to the Community what it legally belongs to the Community. So the tax evader despises his own community and fellows and wants to make them pay for their own ill - acquired living standards. Tax evasion undermines the moral and economic backbone of society as a whole. In a word, tax evasion is selfish unpatrioticism. Unfortunately, the problem is large in scale, even in Finland several billions of euros of lost tax revenue per year, up to 1000 billion at EU level. This is a significant part of our entire tax base, and it is therefore very important to correct the situation and to help Finland's state finances considerably. Every politician wants to get this under control, there is no doubt about it. It is a question of fairness and the functioning of society as a whole. Effective and usable solutions must therefore be sought at all levels of policy. And, fortunately, as the Minister of Finance presented to us, they are coming at a fast pace. The first is this exchange of information, which will therefore come into force from the beginning of next year: hiding taxable income in the world will then be significantly more difficult. Secondly, bilateral agreements, as did the Minister. Finland has already prepared one with Spain and has now negotiated it with Portugal. Thirdly, the government has drawn up a strategy to combat financial crime and will also draw up a programme of measures, which will also consider resources. So much is happening, and no measure should be prejudiced against,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u17	Madam President! It is currently possible in Finland for a foreign venture investor to buy a Finnish company at tens of percent higher prices than a Finnish competitor, whether a competitor is an investor or an SME willing to expand. This is because Finnish law does not prevent the use of interest relief in the way in which interest is directed to tax havens. In other words, this higher ability to pay prices is due to the fact that a foreign venture investor does not intend to pay taxes to Finland. This mechanism is well known to the tax authorities. It's easy to do because the holding company owes money. It buys this Finnish production company, and the Group reduction of the production company is directed to the holding company, which directs the interest rate tax-free to tax havens. So I ask you, Prime Minister, because you know very well the business world and the associated taxation: since the law on the taxation of businesses and the reduction in interest rates is not enough to prevent this immoral and discriminatory behaviour in Finland, should we change the tax procedure law so that the tax authority can dismantle such an arrangement in which interest is actually a dividend? This law is still in force in Great Britain, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u18	Mr President! I, too, drew attention to that article of the Helsingin Sanomat published on 27 December 2012, which referred to that meeting against tax havens and tax avoidance in Finland, which was being called together by the then Minister, Mr Urpilainen. This is a major problem on a global scale: EUR 27000 billion, estimated at EUR 150 billion in tax losses. I think it is important that Finland is one of the first countries in the fight against tax evasion and is working to ensure that tax avoidance, in addition to criminal activity alone, is an issue that is being seized and prevented. Transparency is, above all, the most important thing in this as a whole. The EU is now tightening standards. On several occasions, our ministers have praised themselves with their own measures at that European level. Now I ask whether the government has a genuine will to remedy these problems at European level. Does the government have the will to do so in the way Commissioner Jourova put forward? Is the government genuinely behind transparency when the government there in Ecofin apparently represented a view that 750 million would be the turnover threshold at which this automatic exchange of information will take place? I understand that there were suggestions that a much smaller turnover would result in this transparency. I'm asking Minister Stubb. The government's record in this respect is not very strong when you think about these early years: the money cut from the fight against the shadow economy, this management register and then this system of effective repentance. I hope the government is changing its position. I hope that the government will answer these questions I asked.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u19	Mr President! It is regrettable that the debate on international tax evasion in recent years has not been based on the work of the authorities but on various information leaks. Of course, these revelations have also served the work of the authorities in their search for tax evaders and money launderers. Finland and the European Union should therefore do everything in their power to ensure that more of these leaks occur. In practice, however, the opposite is the case: for example, the so-called Luxembourg papers are made public and the persons who have come to the attention of the tax authorities are currently in court. Both the former employees of the Luxembourg accounting company and the French journalist who published the information have revealed the tax evasion of billions of euros. In the European Union, Finland should therefore take the initiative of introducing a so-called 'whistleblower' legislation in Europe, which would protect the whistleblowers of the illegal activities of businesses and public authorities from the possible legal consequences of the leak. On the other hand, it is good to remember that the fight against the shadow economy and tax evasion cannot depend indefinitely on occasional leaks of information. For example, no one knows what they may have been cleaned out of the Panama papers that have been disrupted in recent days or whether the person who has leaked the information has other motives than moral indignation about tax evasion or resentment towards the former employer. The fight against the grey and black economy needs sufficient resources and requires international cooperation and smooth exchange of information.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u20	Madam President! When, at the end of the 1990s, Parliament began to discuss the grey economy and financial crime, this was also the subject of a topical debate. A lot has happened since then. There was quite a bit of a national scene back then. At the time, I said that the shadow economy, financial crime, tax evasion is a cancer that must be eradicated for three reasons: it takes billions of common tax resources, it distorts competition — honest entrepreneurs cannot survive in a situation of dishonest riots — and the third reason is moral decay. Now the situation has changed. A lot's happened. The problem has become increasingly international, and now the most flagrant example is the exploitation of tax havens in harsh tax evasion. The government claims to be active and to do a lot. Against this background, in January, when the Commission published a proposal to eliminate aggressive tax planning, the government's statements were withdrawn and, in other words, cautioned against competitiveness, the consequences, perhaps the EK was used to ensure that, for example, the restriction of the right to tax deduction could jeopardise investment and so on. In this connection, I would like to ask you a few details: The Government has brought the administration register issue back to Parliament a little bit. This is where Prime Minister Stubb in Question Time said that it is before Parliament and then Parliament will do what it wants with the motion. I hope this means that Parliament, in its wisdom under the leadership of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, can really knock this proposal out and allow transparency in the management registers. The second question relates to this limitation of the right to deduct tax. Do you genuinely agree with the Commission,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u21	Mr President! There is a very effective and legal way to fight against the black economy and also against the grey economy, and it is called the household allowance. It is also known that the reduction in household income will also increase employment. According to various estimates, thousands of new jobs have been created in Finland over the years through the reduction. This reduction will certainly increase demand for, say, domestic work, nursing work, home maintenance work, and all this, everything that increases tax revenue, which reduces the shadow economy, will also increase government tax revenue, despite the fact that the reduction, of course, always costs something as such. At present, the maximum amount of the household allowance is EUR 2400. It has been calculated somewhat over the years. In its own alternative budget, the Swedish Parliamentary Group has proposed raising this ceiling to EUR 4000, which would have even better effects on both employment and demand, thereby reducing the informal economy. I would like to ask the government, the Minister for Finance, how do you feel about this motion from the Swedish Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u22	Let us take a few more speeches and then go to the answers of the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u23	Madam President! Tax control and, on the other hand, tax leakage will not be contained unless we allocate enough resources to the authorities. If I understood what Mr Stubb said correctly, he said that these resources could be considered, and this would indeed be important. Statistics show that, for example, every company inspector at Customs made 11 times his salary back, and I believe that tax inspectors also have a very high efficiency. Last autumn, the Christian Democrats proposed an additional EUR 10 million for the recruitment of tax inspectors, specifically in order to curb tax evasion, and we hope that more of these resources will be available in the future. It is also in the interests of an honest entrepreneur to have such fair market conditions and fair competition when bidding for different projects. This information on taxes paid per country would also be one that might increase the pressure to reduce aggressive tax planning. After all, by means of transfer pricing and the right to deduct interest, international companies are now transferring and distributing their profits from high-tax countries to non-taxed or even tax havens. In Finland, we have raised the issue of foreign-owned health care companies, which, after all, buy some health care services with tax money, but these companies do not participate in tax payments. Now that the government is going to instigate and also open up this sector more and more to competition as a result of the war, I would have asked whether this aspect has been considered, whether freedom of choice means whether or not it is being paid.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u24	Mr President, Fru talman! Now that the government here lists all its intentions as to how it intends to intervene in these matters, it is good to note that until now the government has not in any way contributed to efforts to curb tax avoidance until there has been a public debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u27	Madam President! We have a law that should be reformed in a hurry, because this law dates back to 1986, that is, before the free movement of capital in Europe, and this is the law on group subsidies for taxation. In the spirit of that law, it is said that when a group grant is granted, it should be given to a domestic company. Now, however, the situation in Europe has changed quite a bit. We also regard countries which are not written in the way that Finland is written, but, nevertheless, at European level it is considered that Spain and Sweden are not equal to Finland. The tightening up of one article of this law would make it impossible, however, not to put money into tax havens through another euro country. This bill was on the table during the last government term, among other things. I made a bill about it at the time, but it was stated that Finland has a custom that if a company has a branch in Finland, such as a hot dog kiosk or a studio apartment, then it can be paid Group grants when the situation must of course be so that it must be a municipality of residence in Finland that it is tax-free in Finland as well. There is a difference, and I hope that this government will now really intervene in this matter. And then there's the other thing. When we eradicate these tax evasions, there are these tax inspectors. Now one tax inspector earns about three times his own salary. You might want to add some of these. Tax controls produced EUR 405 million a couple of years ago. There were also other inspections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u28	Madam President! It has been suggested in this Chamber that the current government is doing nothing and that all previous measures have been scrapped. When you look at the latest statistics on the surveillance of the grey economy, they tell you quite otherwise. During this government’s first year of operation, the police recorded a record of 1842 new financial reports, the highest number in the last 10 years. 310 reports of gross debtor’s dishonesty were recorded. They have increased by 53%. The number of vicious tax frauds in police books has increased by over 30%. The police have done a good job and done a good job.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u31	Let us take three more two-minute speeches, followed by the answers of the ministers, and then we shall continue. These three persons are representatives of Aalto, Lintilä and Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u32	Mr President! It is, of course, good to hear that Mr Heinonen praises the actions of the previous government. But it is wrong to say that the government has done absolutely nothing to prevent tax leakage. To be honest, the government has done, but it has not done enough. It is a good thing that the government has now awakened much more vigorously, at least at the speech level, and it is worth it, because according to the 2013 Annual Report of the Tax Administration, Finland's total tax deficit in 2013 was between EUR 4 billion and EUR 7 billion. My question is: should not the closing of this tax deficit not be a top priority for the government and, among other things, in the Prime Minister's proposal on how to close the sustainability gap in public finances? It is good that the government says that it will do its utmost to prevent this tax leakage. Therefore, why has the government been critical of the EU's blacklist of tax havens?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u33	Madam President! It's just a basic concept. This is a little confusing with tax planning and tax evasion. A very simple example: When a person goes to Estonia to buy a bottle of wine, he makes tax planning. If he buys it in that parking lot in the West Port, he'll be doing tax evasion. When here comes this kind of aggressive tax competition, then this is unfortunately one part of the world today. I do not believe that we will be harmonizing the whole of taxation on a global scale, but I hoped that this debate would have taken off in a more constructive spirit. I've been in the IRS for 13 years. In my opinion, the tax section has never met a situation where some proposals have been blocked or attempted to curb the shadow economy or tax evasion. They have always been welcomed. Of course, there are also two different elements. The first is the grey economy, which is more national. At the moment, we are quite well placed to be involved. We have prevention, we have control, we have national legislation that goes pretty well in time. But, of course, the biggest problem for us is tax evasion, where this big money goes, that is, international tax evasion, and there is an international exchange of information that plays a crucial role. As long as we can't get these elements going... — Well, there is currently a BEPS project on the OECD side, the Yanks became FATCA. But we have to get the G20 involved, and that must be a little difficult if you look at those Panama papers, there might be a few countries involved. This is a long-term activity, not one government or two governments. Yes, the next government has always continued to do what the previous government has done. That's what's happening right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u34	Mr President! For my part, I would say that this government did change the course. Last season, Finland was indeed identified as the top country in the fight against tax havens — that is, that we want to be — under the leadership of Minister Jutta Urplainen, and yes, the direction has now changed and this headland thinking has since turned into a brake attitude. President! It is very important to note that under the option of the SDP, we have our own proposals to combat both the informal economy and tax evasion. These include sufficient resources, as I mentioned just now, that the government has cut them in a worrying way. We propose that loopholes in these insurance envelopes, i.e. capitalisation agreements, be blocked. And we are also proposing to limit the right to deduct interest on Group loans. I would like to see a catch taken from these SDP proposals, because so it is, Mr President, that tax revenue is needed in order to ensure good day care for our children, school, care for our elderly. And now we wouldn't have to do such cruel cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u35	Then the answers of the ministers. First Prime Minister Sipilä, please, and then Minister Stubb — three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u36	Madam President! I think that the spirit of this debate is in vain to blame in this matter. I do not believe that there is any person in this Chamber, in the Ministers, who would object to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u39	Secretary Stubb, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u40	Madam President! If, in the second round, I can respond to the six measures that we have taken in relation to the black economy and to avoiding the six taxes, and in this reply I will focus on the questions that have been raised in the short formula. Representative Harakka directly called for us to be in favour of public access. The unambiguous answer to that is yes. In other words, we are promoting public access to the register of business owners and beneficiaries, unlike in many EU countries, and this means, in practice, that we will see what kind of box companies exist and what kind of Bulgarian companies are used in possible tax havens. It was also asked how about a whistleblower. This is already happening in the money market, and we are currently seeing whether it can be used in the fight against money laundering, which is, of course, an attempt to promote this. Congressman Rinne intervened in effective repentance. Now, if I do not recall quite correctly, Mr Rinne, when you were in the Ministry of Finance, you were driving this strongly and this was a unanimous decision of the Parliament, which was then withdrawn by this government after the committee consultation. But you can, of course, correct me if I am wrong about this. The country-specific reporting was asked. It actually has two dimensions, the first of which relates to the exchange of information between authorities. That is what we are in favour of, and the other has just come out as a proposal from that side of the Commission, and it is in the investigation on the part of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, which is responsible for this whole. The management registration was linked to this discussion on the grey economy and tax evasion. It is therefore a system that is perfectly legal and operating in the majority of EU countries. The reference was also made here to the fact that we would in some way be in the back door bringing control registration to Finland. The answer to this is that we do not extend the management registration to Finland. Perhaps you can take one example carefully here, and that is that roughly 50% of our ownership of the Helsinki Stock Exchange today is in the hands of foreigners and most of them use management registration as an operating procedure. Why? If this were not the case, they would all have to open a bank account in Finland individually, and this would certainly make it more difficult for foreigners to invest here on the Finnish side. The question was about blacklists. Yes. Who said they don't? Representative Wave, misinformation. Yes, we are in favour of the blacklists and we have taken a strong stand on their behalf in Amsterdam. A lot of figures were used here on how much the shadow economy and tax evasion cost in Finland, how much it costs at European and global level. I would be careful with these figures because no one has any specific information on it. The information I received directly from Tax Administration is that in Finland we practically have a tax deficit of between 6 and 7 per cent for companies. So this is the chapter of the Tax Administration. The availability of bank account information was referred to. In fact, in this original letter G5, which became an EU28 letter, we proposed that access should be wider and not just focused on the police. We have taken other measures: the abuse of the securities market will become stronger sanctions. This bill started last week. Various forms of investment, including insurance cover, will be investigated on the VM side. And last but not least, what I have said before is that the activities of our authorities in this Panama Leaks group would contribute to the existence of these documents by our authorities. And I continue to appeal to the Finnish Broadcasting Company to ensure that these documents:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u41	Minister Orphan, two more minutes, please. Then there will be one minute of debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u42	Madam President! Firstly, it is quite clear that economic crime, the shadow economy and tax evasion are phenomena in society that are so gnawing that we must do everything we can to combat them, and there is hardly a party, a representative or a minister in this Chamber who would not like to do so. I think there are two things: First of all, the government has taken concrete steps, last of all the Portuguese agreement negotiated by the Minister for Finance, which was an excellent demonstration of the concrete measure. Secondly, the government is setting up a parliamentary monitoring team to monitor the measures. Thirdly, we have adopted a strategy against the shadow economy and financial crime, which is the seventh of its kind. It will be the subject of an operational programme, which will be completed in May, of further measures. As far as resources are concerned, it is wrong to give the impression that the government was somehow in particular cutting. We have 545 policemen and women investigating financial crime every day. The few million that were missing due to the difficult economic situation was this special programme, additional funding for the police, but we, in cooperation with the Minister of Finance, were able to find at the board table the solution by which the missing money for the continuation of this programme was secured. These work continues, and here was the normal budgetary process by which we applied and together found those priorities, because this matter was considered important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u45	Let us now have a quick debate through one-minute responses. I would ask those Members who wish to take the floor, with the V button, to reserve and stand up. — Representative Alanko-Kahiluoto, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u46	Madam President! I am glad that this debate is about to take place in concrete terms. Once again, however, I would like to ask the Government, in particular the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, why the Finnish Government did not allow documents on business taxation to be submitted to the Special Committee of the European Parliament in autumn 2015, and whether the Government is now prepared to allow such documents to be forwarded to the European institutions. It would be important to have a clear answer to this. The second question is for Prime Minister Sipilä, who has said that he will bring the State's Corporate Governance Strategy to Parliament this spring. I would like to know whether the government can ensure in this context that the country-by-country reporting of the majority-owned companies owned by the Finnish State on their own tax footprint is finally comprehensive and that its loopholes are blocked. This could be done in Parliament this spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u47	Here, Minister Stubb, answer immediately, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u48	Madam President! I am sorry that I did not answer that question directly just now, and we are very happy to give a written answer. But if I have understood correctly, you wanted us to send the authorities information on the measures taken by the Finns to the temporary committee of the European Parliament, and then perhaps I will ask more about the question of what is the legislative basis or, in practice, the moral justification that this type of measure can be taken. I find it terribly difficult to see that this type of information — if I have understood it correctly, correct it if I am wrong — can be given to an outsider, as it were. The first step would probably be for us to give it to the Finnish Parliament and the committees, but the fact that we would just leave here as if we were passing that kind of information on to the European Parliament committee — although I very much like the European Parliament — does not seem reasonable. But we will give you a very direct written answer to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u49	Mr President! Admittedly, much remains to be done to prevent tax evasion, but many improvements have already been made, as has been said here today. In addition to other measures, this Parliament and the government have concluded tax agreements with Spain and Germany, and now the result of negotiations with Portugal has also been achieved. Of course, that is a good thing in many ways. The tax revenue generated by these tax agreements brings a little extra revenue to the state treasury, but an even more significant increase in tax revenue is the message given to citizens and taxpayers by these agreements. These agreements clearly show that Finns do not want to be unequaled on the basis of income and wealth. It is certainly capable of improving tax-paying standards in these difficult economic times,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u50	The one-minute speeches will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u51	Mr President! I want to thank Minister Stubb. I received a direct answer to the second question. Finland therefore supports public access to the registration of the owner of the final beneficiary. That is why it is a contradiction that you are trying to hide public ownership, currently public, in the management register abroad. This is a source of amazement even abroad: transparency or secrecy? For the sake of consistency, management registration should therefore be abolished once and for all. You had no position on the second question. We are therefore following very closely whether the government is also following its speeches in deeds, i.e. in the country-specific public access to the results and tax information of large companies. It's still blacklists. I do not know whether I am referring to the same thing as Mr Aalto, but last month, before the Panama leak, a directive was adopted requiring large companies to report their taxes. The Commission proposed that the names of the companies which refused should be published. Finland was opposed to publicity. Now, of course, after the Panama leak, you might be doing something different.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u52	Madam President! I too would like to thank the ministers and the government for having concluded these negotiations with Portugal and Spain, and I believe that the negotiations with France will continue. The question that is of interest is how long it will be before these agreements are brought into force, for example, that Portugal will no longer be able to conclude these agreements and thus avoid taxation. Although this is a matter for the parliaments to deal with, is it possible to add a point to this debate with Portugal that these will no longer be granted after the outcome of this negotiations has been achieved and that the agreements will only come into force once they have been dealt with by the parliaments?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u53	Mr President! I have a little déjà-vu in this room right now. A lot is said, but when do words become deeds? As early as last term, a parliamentary working group on internal security and justice was sitting in Parliament, and it unanimously stated in its report that the enhanced programme for the shadow economy and economic crime carried out between 2012 and 15 should also be extended during this next parliamentary term. These measures in the last period have reduced crime opportunities, increased the risk of being caught and also increased the response capacity of the authorities to reveal the informal economy. However, the government programme of this government did not appreciate this unanimous statement, that is to say, the enhanced programme for the shadow economy and economic crime has not been extended, it has no longer received funding. One of the problems with this funding is that in the state budget:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u54	Mr President! I think it is quite clear that there is a very strong and common will here to eradicate tax evasion and the shadow economy. It is done at the G20 level, it is done at EU level, it is done by the government, it is also done by the previous government, and this parliamentary working party also gives the opposition the opportunity to participate in this work. I would therefore like this debate to be a little more constructive and forward-looking than it has unfortunately been at times. The wider the tax base, the more efficient the collection of taxes, the lower and fairer the tax system that serves citizens and, above all, honest citizens. I would also like to express my thanks for the fact that a tax agreement has been reached with Spain and Portugal. I think it is fair that, regardless of the country in which you retire, if pensions from Finland are paid, they are public or private, then taxation is at the same level.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u55	Mr President! I do not interpret this debate, Mr Prime Minister, as being in any way reprehensible, but there is a genuine concern that we have different issues brought to Parliament by the government which, in my opinion, have undermined the credibility of the government as regards tax evasion and tax evasion. I therefore hope that this line, which now seems to have been confirmed by the government, will also be followed. I would also like to say to you, Mr Stubb, that it was decided in Parliament in due course that a model of effective repentance or a model of double punishment or a model of sanctions should be examined by the Government. It was done, and I said as Minister of Finance that I am not bringing such a proposal to Parliament, this amnesty legislation. Then I would like to say that it is now important that we also have an answer to the question, Mr Finance Minister, whether you were against the turnover threshold below 750 million. That's what I thought was going on at Ecofin.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u56	Madam President! First of all, I must say to Mr Pekonen that I believe that during this spring the government will be able to complete an updated programme to combat the shadow economy, which will also include the definition of the need for resources, which will involve it. Then, on the other hand, there was the question of what the economic effects of this would be. It is terribly difficult to say what these economic effects are. We are very much in favour of taxing where profits come from, which is like a fair play. But then it is also worth noting that Etla did a study, for example, that during Nokia's time Nokia's cell phones, which were made in China, made tax revenue for Finland. So this situation that exists is not so black and white at all. The same is true of these tax agreements: we have a situation where it is very good that we get these high incomes that run away from taxes, but I think we have a situation where, on the other hand, in Spain, taxation on low incomes is less expensive than we do. That we're going to go in the other way, even on the other side of the fork. As spokesperson Sampo Terho said, tax evasion with everything is disgusting.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u57	Madam President! The European Fraud Prevention Unit, Olaf, is very famous for its effective work. It costs about EUR 50 million a year, but it collects around EUR 450 million. In its plans, the government has thought that in the coming three to four years, EUR 1.7 million would be added to this tax fraud investigation per year. Now that we all know that perhaps one of the most productive things a government could easily do, it would be to add between 10 and 20 million, when the accumulation is always ten times as much, I ask what this logic is in that there is so little to be invested in. This does not seem justified in any way, however, when we know what profits are expected here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u58	Two minutes of reply, at this point Mr Hassi and Mr Zyskowicz. Since then, the Prime Minister has asked for a one-minute reply, and then we will continue with the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u59	Mr President! It is good to hear that the Finnish Government is in favour of drawing up a blacklist of tax havens in the EU so that, like the United States, a strict tax can be imposed on transfers of money to these countries. However, I would encourage the government to support the proposal that taxes paid by large companies in several countries should be made public, and I would encourage the government to support this more broadly than the Commission proposes. After all, the Commission would limit this to EU and tax haven countries, which would mean, for example, that tax evasion through the United States would be excluded. Now the position of the government parties on this issue, at least in the European Parliament, has been unclear. Last July, the plenary session of the European Parliament voted on it, and the two Finns voted against this country-specific publicity, the two representatives of the Coalition Party and one representative of the Centre, while the other Finns voted in favour of it. I would also encourage the government to support the harmonisation of the basis for calculating corporate tax in the EU, as this would make tax evasion more difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u60	Madam President! There's been a lot of compliments here on the previous government and Minister Urplainen. I, too, applaud his work on these matters. But contrary to what the opposition has said here, the current government has also done a good job, and it has a lot of work to do on these issues too. The work and entrepreneurship line of the Coalition Party is strongly visible. And this is indeed the case, because tax fraud, which circumvents taxes, effectively imposes them on other entrepreneurs and other employees. Panama is very important because: what these tax havens sell — they sell a secret business. And now such leaks tell us that the tax villains are not hidden, sheltered anywhere. I would like to draw attention to two points that have not come up. This year's 1. On the day of the entry into force of the amendment that illegal evidence may be used, contrary to what is known as human rights lawyers, and this is of great importance. And today, at second reading, there is a report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights which, in certain exceptional circumstances, will have to reverse the burden of proof in tracing the proceeds of crime. That's important, too, because his wallet is his place in the IRS.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u61	Mr Terho, before we go into the answers of the ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u62	Mr President! In response to this ill-drafted accusation, which therefore did not identify what was at stake, but I have the impression that you are referring to a directive on shareholders' rights, which, of course, you failed to mention, of course, that it seems rather unusual that this directive on shareholders' rights and its connection were surrounded by amendments to the Accounting Directive — at the initiative of the Greens, as I have heard — by: It is true that the representatives of the People's Republic of Finland, along with their ECR group, voted against this proposal at the time because it was wrong and incorrectly worded. It has now been re-introduced into the European Parliament and therefore in general the amendments to the Accounting Directive, which are the right place for this reform. It is therefore highly likely that the ECR Group will also change its position, and it is certainly not against this country-by-country reporting, but only against wrong and ineffective formulations. And now, by the way, this presentation of yours is stuck in the trilogues, so once again you have done nothing but harm by this idealistic action.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u63	And the answer, Prime Minister Sipilä, no more than two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u64	Mr President! Three things that mentioned my name before I had to leave. Firstly, this corporate governance strategy: this strategy will highlight social responsibility, where this country-specific report is one small part. Then to the Portuguese agreement. Here the Minister of Finance has done an excellent job in reaching an agreement with Spain and now also with Portugal — it has not yet been signed. Indeed, this now makes it possible for pensions paid by the private sector to be taxed in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u67	And Minister Stubb, no more than two minutes at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u68	Madam President! I will return to the effective regret that Mr Rinne referred to there. I have here a letter from the Tax Section of the Parliament's Finance Committee to the then Finance Minister, Mr Rinte, on 11 February 2015, on the basis of a rapid googling, in which the Committee considers it important that the preparation should proceed as quickly as possible, and it would be desirable that the amendments to the law should be brought into force already this year — I understand a unanimous decision. Then also from that Democratic magazine on 7 June 2015 under the heading "Active Repentance Driven by the Ring" finally moves forward". This article can be found if it is correctly quoted:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u69	And then the one-minute speeches continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u70	Mr President! The Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, is right that Panama paper was a game changer in two ways: there was exceptionally much and concrete evidence of how big the problem is, but also because citizens in all EU countries are now waiting for big, genuine changes and measures to tackle this problem. Reference has been made here to this government's strategy to combat the shadow economy, which I regret to say is of a general nature. It didn't contain much concrete. I would now like to ask the Minister: when will this concrete programme of government measures be published, and will it also include national measures to address, for example, the shortcomings in transfer pricing and the right to deduct interest? I believe that this is such a clear flaw that we should move forward at national level and not wait for the decisions that are being taken at OECD or EU level. Finally, Mr Stubb, I would also like to know: if this government also sees aggressive tax planning as a problem,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u71	Madam President! I would like to highlight the four incomes needed to strengthen the tax capacity of developing countries. In recent times, U.M., they have been conducted with merit. There is a need for political influence on the implementation of the revised tax rules for companies operating globally, such as the G20, the OECD and the EU, and to support the participation of developing countries in that implementation. Strengthening tax administrations and other important tax institutions in developing countries is needed. There is a need to raise awareness and train civil society about the link between tax collection and public services and to demand accountability from their governments. And there is still a need for research into illegal cash flows and effective fiscal capacity-building measures, among other things. In my opinion, these are excellent lines from the UM.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u72	Mr President! However, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: have you opposed the lower turnover rate for automatic exchange of information in Ecofin or not? That would be interesting in this debate now to make that clear. Then I will say that such legislation to which you refer did not come in my time here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u73	Madam President! The elephant of the gray economy must be eaten in pieces. We talk about morality, but we also talk about greed. It is essential that measures and means for identifying and preventing the shadow economy are also created in the context of public procurement and planning. Monitoring in municipalities, but also cooperation with the Tax Administration on information exchange, should be stepped up. With regard to the fight against the shadow economy, it is important that it is possible to intervene as quickly and effectively as possible, including through contractual technical means. Contracts should be encouraged to include effective termination, dismantling and sanctions clauses. This would increase the incentive and responsibility of suppliers to comply with the common rules of the game. Taxes have to be paid. In addition to the Procurement Act, municipalities should also have guidelines to combat the shadow economy. The procurement legislation is in the process of being reformed, and I would like to ask you, Minister: is there something coming?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u74	Madam President! Indeed, this automatic international exchange of information is absolutely key, and 100 countries have already signed up for it. We need the G20 to be involved. No other countries are leaving, including Panama so far. I should like to ask Mr Stubb: your colleague, Mr Schäuble, said that sanctions, some economic sanctions, some sort of intravenous pressure on these countries must be applied. It is simply not acceptable for people like Panama to be excluded from this exchange of information. Economic sanctions or the like will put these countries in order. Are you ready to join Wolfgang Schäuble on this front?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u75	Madam President! It is a pleasure to hear that the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, is very keen to highlight how active we are at the EU level in terms of legislative changes. However, I would like to ask the Minister what is the level of activity. We are here to applaud the fact that during the previous government, the programme for the shadow economy has been implemented, and has had good experience. It has been extended in this government, albeit with a little less resources. What has been Finland's activity at EU level that this good model would be exported more actively, so that a similar grey economy system could be introduced in the EU when Finland has had good experiences, i.e. control resources, cooperation between different countries, other things, not just legislation but active action among different authorities?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u76	Madam President! This is a very constructive and good debate. The government can recall these many good suggestions. Several have talked about, among other things, the resources of the authorities. I would also like to raise the issue of health and safety authorities, who have access to company tax information and to see on-site companies what working conditions are there. Secondly, I would like to emphasise that environmental crimes are also a form of the shadow economy. Companies can seek economic benefits by not treating waste properly and in a lawful manner but by dumping it into the environment to pollute our environment. I hope that the government will invest in the fight against environmental crime. Thirdly, country-by-country reporting. I think it would be a good idea for the government to at least support the Commission's proposal, and more so that companies' turnover would be lower than this EUR 750 million in terms of information on taxes and profits being made public. This would provide all citizens and public authorities with certain, clear information on where taxes are paid.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u77	Mr President! In itself, interesting ways have been put forward to address many of the shortcomings and loopholes in current tax practices. However, in my opinion, these agendas lack one major flaw, namely the trade unions, which currently recognise duty-free dividends on rental income. For example, via VVO alone, ay movements have accounted for almost EUR 50 million in five years, and the amount is increasing. At present, this activity is a cause for disapproval in the deep ranks of the people. I would like to ask Mr Stubb: does the government have the means to address the fact that housing subsidies, for example, will not continue to flow as tax-free dividends to ay shops? At the moment, the Ay movement is enriched by tax-free dividends as VVO’s rents increase and profits increase. I guess this can't be morally right either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u78	Madam President! There has been a lot of talk here about the grey economy and illegal tax evasion, and this needs to be tackled vigorously. But, Minister Stubb, you said with regard to the management records that it is perfectly legal. It is legal, but it is now a question of not only tackling what is illegal now, but also of making illegal the aggressive tax planning, tax evasion, which is now going to get us out of business, when it is not illegal. I think this is the big question. Is the government prepared to introduce legislation? Are we prepared to push for tightening up in the EU so that the immoral tax avoidance now in the legal sphere is put under control? In my first speech, I brought up a model prepared in Sweden in which loans made within my own group could not be reduced. This is the way in which profits in Finland are transferred to tax havens. Would the Ministry of Finance, for example, be able to bring this legislation on a very fast schedule? Here is an example of how to address:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u79	Mr President! The most important selling product of tax havens is a secret. A significant proportion of new jobs are currently being created in small and medium-sized enterprises in the European Union. Stirring gaps in the tax system will improve the competitiveness of European SMEs and create room for new growth. The best companies are no longer on the market, but the most harsh and the biggest. Those with a desire and financial capacity for tax evasion win. It's not fair. It's unfair. We need more transparency and more access to company information. This government is working hard to eradicate tax avoidance, even though the opposition claims otherwise. Like Mrs Wallinheim, I too would like to remind you that there has been a great deal of criticism about the ay movement for over-subsidisation of companies, even though dividends have been good enough for them, even if they are tax-free.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u80	Madam President! Now, however, we must remember that we have associations of general interest all along the same lines, not just the ay movement separately, and all the others of general interest in some sort of different legislation. I hope that this is clear to all of us. It is good that a parliamentary working party should be set up, because when the first audit committee was set up, Mr Matti, President of the Social Democratic Party, For the first time in this big hall, the burden took this matter up for discussion so that Parliament as a whole was able to intervene jointly in matters of the shadow economy and tax evasion. Last year, a tax trail of more than 50 % of state-owned companies was started, and now I would have asked the Prime Minister if he had specified the instructions, because it does not require a decision from Parliament, but can be instructed by the Minister responsible for corporate governance to report to these companies. Secondly, will the next budget, when the frameworks are made, have the 40 million shortfall in police resources, around 800 person-years, been eliminated if we consider that the resources are kept at the current level?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u81	Mr President! I fully agree with Mr Satos that everyone in this Chamber must want to fight against the shadow economy and tax evasion. Fortunately, there are different methods, and earlier in this Chamber, when the opposition is generally called for, only what the Swedish parliamentary group has proposed, namely an increase in the household allowance from EUR 2400 to EUR 4000. This is a win-win-win arrangement. It is a win-win situation for households who are allowed to work, for small businesses, for micro-enterprises who receive more employment and more income, and for a country that receives more tax revenue when informal work is reduced. I repeat my question to the Minister for Finance: what do you think of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u82	Madam President! This has not seen the forest from the trees, namely raising the employment rate of Finnish workers, creating jobs for Finnish workers. In southern Finland, for example, every third building builder is a foreigner at the moment, we have tens of thousands of foreign construction workers alone, but at the same time we have structural unemployment. We have more than 12,000 builders in the building industry who do not get jobs. How can we favour Finnishism if we cannot even create jobs for our own citizens, for our own employees? They go right in front of the others. In that sense, I would have asked how these public contracts, which, however, compete for these jobs, can be put on an equal footing by Finns who pay taxes here and by Finnish companies who pay taxes here. We know, for example, the status of posted worker, where six months do not necessarily require the first tax payment here. This advantage is considerable when we start competing for public procurement in the construction sector. Could we do something about things like this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u83	Madam President! When Minister of Finance Alexander Stubb says that I give false information about blacklists, you will at the same time say that the government's own statements give false information about these black lists, because that is exactly what I have read and studied, and I recommend it to you as well. It is directly said about these: 'It is unclear on what grounds the states mentioned in the list are considered uncooperative'. So it is a question of different black lists of these. Those lists are important in order to make some sense of the criteria for investing in public financial institutions. You have supported such watered lists, where there are small island states, but when you talk about Luxembourg and Switzerland, they are very critical of these longer lists. That's what this is all about. And as far as the open system of ownership is concerned, it is a leading European star in Finland, and that is why Finland received its derogation from the EU CSD regulation. Now you are going against the mainstream: the EU is heading for the Finnish state, but you are going against the Finnish state line and against the EU line with this new proposal,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u84	Mr President, Fru talman! If we look at what has happened in a cold way, it has to be said, unfortunately, that less is being done to combat the black economy and less resources are being used than in the last parliamentary term. Suomen Kuvalehti asked various authorities what kind of resources The Sipilä government gave them the grey economy: did the resources increase, remain unchanged or decreased? When the Katainen-Urpian Government granted additional funding of EUR 20 million, including: Customs received EUR 1 million, and now the Sipilä Government has not granted Customs any additional funding at all. This reduction has led to a reduction in financial intelligence and investigation staff in Customs. The Sipilä Board of Directors also cut the revised budgets for the fight against the shadow economy of the Finnish Competition and Consumer Protection Agency, as well as from TEMA and STM. On an annual basis, the Sipilä Government has reduced by more than EUR 5 million the budget to combat the shadow economy. No one should be offended by saying this, but it also does not justify the government beating itself in the chest, how well it handles this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u85	Madam President! Mr Feldt-Ranna's argument is very unintelligent. The Sipilä Government spends a total of EUR 4 billion less, i.e. EUR 4000 million less, on central government expenditure at 19 levels than the Katainen-Urpinen Government. If some 5 million of this EUR 4000 million has also been taken up in the fight against the shadow economy, that is regrettable, but is it not regrettable that the savings in education and training are not regrettable, is it not regrettable that social security savings are not regrettable? So this argument, Mr Feldt-Ranta, has nothing to do with it. But it is important that we invest in the black economy, and that is what the Sipilä Government has done. It is not just a question of money, but, as I said, it is a proposal that is being discussed today — hopefully, Feldt-Santa will have an opportunity to stay to deal with it — in which the burden of proof will be reversed in order to recover the proceeds of crime in certain circumstances. The villain must show by what legal means he has acquired those funds. This is an important reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u86	Mr President! This speech by Mr Zyskowicz has now proved that the government has lowered the level of ambition over the last parliamentary term in the fight against the shadow economy. We all regret that, but we hope that you will take these opposition proposals which we have tabled in this Chamber and raise this level of ambition, because all the research data we have available from previous parliamentary periods shows that the appropriations to combat the black economy are going to pay back. In addition to this, Finland has previously represented leadership at a European level in the fight against tax avoidance. The reinstatement of its leadership is very important, and I hope that the government will also take concrete action on good intentions, not only here at home but also at European and global level.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u87	Mr Zyskowicz will answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u88	Madam President! My speech in no way showed that the government has lowered the level of ambition over the last parliamentary term. I was simply trying to show that if 4000 million are saved — and all these savings have been rejected by Mrs Feldt-Ranta — then it is no wonder that 5 million will also hit this important target. But when you say that the level of ambition has been lowered, I challenge you to the future: let us see, in the next parliamentary term or when the statistics are completed, in which parliamentary term, in the last parliamentary term or in this parliamentary term, we have been better able to collect tax evasion, tax evasion, the shadow economy, the money and revenue back to the state. I dare say that all the measures to which I referred, but to which Mr Stubb referred in particular, will mean that, when we look after them, this parliamentary term will be more effective in combating the shadow economy and financial crime than in the last parliamentary term, when good work was done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u89	Madam President! Mr Pekonen has already asked Mr Stubb whether the income side should not be taken into account. Mr Zyskowicz's speech highlights the problem and clearly highlights the problem: merely cutting and trying to get the state finances right by cutting. The results may be the opposite, as is the case with the fight against the shadow economy, in putting tax avoidance in check: Customs, police, tax officials — when resources are cut, it is for fools. It's not about saving money. It's about losing revenue. It should now be estimated that, by investing in something, in this case in the fight against the shadow economy, as the previous government did, it brought additional revenue of tens of millions of euros. The question is why the government has short-sightedly cut 5 million, with which it has lost many times its income. After all, these revenues balance the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u90	Madam President! It must be noted, however, that this government has also made an increase of EUR 50 million in the appropriations for internal security, which goes to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and Customs. Some of them also go into the study of the grey economy. And it is precisely here that ministers have said that, when this strategy for combating the shadow economy comes to Parliament, additional resources will also be dealt with, which would also be required as a budgetary issue. I would also like to point out that today, at second reading, this translated burden of proof is a very big step towards catching up with financial criminals. This has not come from the previous government, unfortunately. I would have liked to ask the Minister again how it is with Nordic cooperation. However, over the last eight years, 45 Nordic co-ordinated information exchange agreements have also been concluded under the OECD through the Nordic Council of Ministers. Are we also going to continue Nordic cooperation...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u91	Mr President! Little smiled when RKP said that he was committed to fighting the black economy in previous governments. In documents leaked from the 2011 government negotiations, the RKP strongly opposed the activities of the informal economy, the transparency of ownership and the blacklists of tax havens. To the extent that the Prime Minister has said that interest-rate reduction regulations are a problem. When the Interest Reduction Act was adopted in 2012, the Central Party made a big fuss about the fact that it left the real estate companies with a big loophole. After all, Minister Toivakka proved its existence by setting up a real estate investment company in Belgium. Well, of course, everyone expected that when the center came to power, it would close this loophole. However, there was no proposal, as there was not a single national proposal that hinders tax planning. Now the Prime Minister said that we should cover, cover what the EU and the OECD are doing. The government has outsourced tax avoidance legislation abroad.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u92	Madam President! During the last parliamentary term in 2014, a strategy and action programme for combating environmental crime were established and strongly supported by the Coalition Party. In this programme, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of the Interior work closely together with the aim of providing official training and improving cooperation between the authorities and specifically bringing environmental criminals to justice. In 2014, 420 environmental crimes were recorded, and between 5 and 15 of them were gross. I will ask the Minister how and what results have recently been obtained from this programme. And then the second question: Environmental crimes some age in 10 years. As we know, it may take years before leaking oil tanks and such things occur. Can we consider extending the period of aging?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u93	Is that what Mr Toivakka wants to answer?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u94	Mr President! I would like to say that Mr Harakka is lying here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u95	I ask you to use the appropriate language.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u96	Mr President! It would be interesting to know whether you are going to intervene in any way when twice in this Chamber an inappropriate language was used. I admit that I was imprecise in the fact that the Minister was not in charge of operations, but he was the owner of this company when this arrangement was made, which took advantage of this loophole. In this respect, the Minister has been involved in this work, and he himself acknowledged in the interview that this arrangement is related to tax planning. But it would certainly be interesting to know whether language in this Chamber is now turning completely into a violation of good manners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u97	Mr Harakka, if you had listened to what I have just said, I said that we should use the appropriate language here. This applies to ministers as well as representatives, and now we are going to have proper language.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u98	Madam President! Mr Stubb asked me a direct question, which I would now like to answer. In replying to me, he appealed to me not to know what would be the legal basis or the moral basis for Finland to be able to provide information on corporate tax arrangements to the European Parliament committee and to suspect that this would be confidential information. However, this is about the impact of changes in national tax legislation on the tax base of other EU countries, and that is why the EU Council's Tax Working Party is discussing tax issues, i.e. not individual tax decisions, only legislation. Since changes in company tax legislation affect other EU countries, the EU and the EU Parliament need to discuss these issues. I would also like to say that 14 EU Member States were prepared to provide information on the discussions of the Council's tax working group, but Finland was not. 14 countries felt that there was no legal or moral problem, but Finland felt that there was a moral problem with the disclosure of information on tax arrangements.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u99	Three more replies, then Minister Stubb responds. These three people are representatives of Satonen, Rinne and Stefan Wallin.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u100	Mr President! I am very sorry that this debate has taken on rather unpleasant aspects at this final stage, especially since I understand that there is a common will and a common desire to resolve these issues. I would also like to see a constructive effort being made, at the time when we have a joint parliamentary working party, to find common solutions and not to discourage the opening up of personal matters which, in my view, do not belong at all to this debate. That's my point of view. There may be other views here, of course, but when the opposition here on many occasions, especially Mr Rinne, has constantly stressed that there is parliamentary preparation and that together, now that the hand of cooperation is offered together, I hope that you will also have your own lines in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u101	Mr President! All I say to Mr Satonen is that the SDP is always a proper party and is trying to move things forward, not backwards. However, I have now asked Mr Stubb three times during this debate whether you in Ecofin thought that a threshold below EUR 750 million could not be accepted. I would now like to ask whether you were against the proposal to make public those who refused to provide information. Could I have a clear and direct answer to these questions now?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u102	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Harakka, in a way just now, actually referred to the 2011 government negotiations, when Smolna was like a sieve. The RKP did not leak at the time, but papers were leaked to the public purposefully. This paper, published in the magazine Power, has been interpreted completely arbitrarily, and the same debate continues, so in this respect the criticism of the representative goes completely to the ground. Instead, I would perhaps be more concerned that the Ay movement in the evening Sanomat yesterday refused to share its stock exchange holdings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u103	Then the answers. First Minister Toivakka, is 1 minute enough? — — — —
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u104	In fact, I would like to say a little about what the Foreign Minister is doing to strengthen the tax collection capacity and the tax base of developing countries. In other words, as Mrs Paloniemi has said in her excellent report, we are taking action to do so. One of Finland’s priorities is to strengthen the tax recovery capacity of developing countries, and this is already strongly reflected in the objectives of sustainable development, including the Addis Ababa Financial Conference, because there is a clear link between tax evasion, tax avoidance and developing countries. Erik Solheim, chairman of the OECD Development Assistance Committee, is aptly using the example that if the tax base of developing countries were raised by 1%, it would be more than traditional development aid combined. In other words, it could have a huge impact on the development of developing countries. At present, developing countries are able to collect between 10% and 15% of their GDP in the form of taxes and payments, and Finland has now become active in this respect. One priority is that we help our partner countries. For example, we are working with Tanzania to export this type of tax system development expertise to these countries. Now the Foreign Office is currently preparing a tax and development agenda and it will be published in this perspective at the end of June, and then we will hear more about it. But they work all the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u105	Finally, Mr Stubb, the reply will be made for a maximum of five minutes. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u106	Madam President! Albert Einstein once said that the hardest thing to understand in the world is income tax, the most difficult thing to understand in this world is income tax. Perhaps we could add a grey economy and tax evasion to this, as it were, in their own fields of science. I believe that the debate today has been lively and colorful, and I am sure that no one can blame us for the fact that there are so-called harsher statements every now and then. A few direct answers to this start and then a summary. Congressman Wallin asked about the household allowance. We are currently working on a broader tax package, in which we will also be dealing with the issue of the household allowance and its possible increase in one form or another. It can be partly linked to this grey economy debate, but it is seen more as such, let us say, as a dynamic tax measure. On several occasions — no longer present — representative Aalto referred to blacklists. So it's about the goals. Now that a lot of questions were asked about what I said at the Ecofin meeting, telegraphically: 1) Panama is a game changer. 2) We finance ministers must ensure that tax collection is maintained, and this is also a measure in which the EU shows the advantage. We need to address tax avoidance, tax offences, aggressive tax planning and money laundering. We must act as quickly as possible. We need to increase transparency. We need to exchange information. We must obtain and implement common registers and create a list of black countries. I support the French proposals, the German proposals and the G5 proposals, which we are prepared to go further. This, I'm sorry, is a translation of what I took from the notes. Representative Rinne also asked directly about the 750 million. It is, therefore, the Accounting Directive. A direct answer to you, Mr Rinne: we have not opposed the abolition of the border in Ecofin. This approach to the Commission's proposal for a directive on accounting is currently under way in the form of a TEM-driven approach, and this reporting between authorities will be subject to the same limit. So we are looking at this situation. But I tried to dig through the memos and see if there was anything to say about this, and I also went through the Ecofin papers, and at least that kind of stock formation didn't come out of my mouth there. Let's look at the whole thing. Then brief answers to what we have done, because this really is a difficult and complex entity. First, the fight against the shadow economy, which is the whole. 1) Programme to combat the shadow economy and financial crime. 2) Fifty million were added to the appropriations for internal security. I have just spoken to the Director-General of Customs, who has added 4 million on his side to the fight against the black economy. At the same time, on this question of resources, I would like to stress that, when we have automatic exchange of information, this will also reduce the human resources aspect, but it is, as it were, a matter of fact. 3) The common situational picture function of the informal economy and financial crime by the authorities. 4) With regard to the VM, our main project to combat the shadow economy during this government period, as the Prime Minister said there, is the establishment of an income register. 5) We will step up the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. This is where the implementation of the Fourth Money Laundering Directive is taking place, and preparations are well advanced in Finland. 6) Automatic international exchange of tax information will be intensified, Common Reporting Standard. We have 80 jurisdictions involved. So there are six clear positions on the grey economy. Then, from the point of view of avoiding taxes and preventing aggressive tax planning, six entities. 1) We are actively involved in both OECD and EU activities where the BEPS project is on the EU side of the OECD and the ATAD Directive. 2) We are involved in preventing aggressive tax planning, for example through the Income Tax Directive. 3) We have also implemented the amendments to the Parent-Subsidiary Directive in the field of dividend taxation. 4) We are active in concluding bilateral and tax exchange agreements. 5) We also conclude tax agreements if the content is outdated or problematic in terms of revenue collection in Finland. Spain and Portugal are examples of this. (6) We also operate through national legislation, of which I mentioned intermediate entities, interest relief rights, the general tax avoidance rule, transfer pricing and the limited Parent and Subsidiary Directive and so on. Last comment and summarum: Yes, Panama Leaks is helping to move these entities forward, and I believe that this is crucial in the fight against the shadow economy and tax evasion. Now we need action and more international cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u107	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u108	Madam President! I feel that the foreign law is now the best subject I have been here to talk about, because every week there will be at least one part of this sequel. Now there is a slight problem because when you cannot look at them as a whole, I will describe to you one point relating to this HE 64. As a whole, this legislation to delegate tasks from both the Border Guard and the police to the Finnish Immigration Service is a good thing so that the Finnish Immigration Service will have more opportunities to process these permits. However, at this very moment, when we have a proposal before the Committee on Administrative Affairs last week to reduce the time for complaints, among other things, the strong message of the experts has been that by reducing the time for complaints, the processing times will not be reduced, but will even be prolonged. There are many different reasons for that, including the fact that they have to be added to the explanations afterwards and other things like this. It has become clear at that point that much easier and a better way would be to shorten processing times. Now, this proposal, which comes two weeks after that, is a directive which would have been useful to know when we were dealing here a few weeks ago with the previous one, which is an attempt to shorten processing times that do not work, and now there is a reduction in processing times. I do not know, I hope that this is just a mistake, a slip or something else and not a conscious attempt to tighten up the time for complaints and then bring this reduction in the time for processing. Of course, the police still have to be informed of decisions after they have become negative or positive, which has already been the subject of one legislative proposal, so that this can also be entrusted to the immigration authorities, particularly in positive cases. In other words, it is not just police officers in the future who can tell people what kind of decision has been taken, but, of course, the removal and monitoring tasks of the Aliens Act are still the tasks of border control and police. One big change that is coming to this now that these permits would no longer be applied for from the police department and the police would not be the licensing authority is this suggestion that they could only be applied for from nine special offices. Now that we know that these 32,000 people — and then some others, but also when there have been between 3000 and 4400 — do not happen to come to these predetermined points, what are the realistic possibilities for asylum seekers to travel to these places to take forms to apply for them? This didn't get away with it very easily, did it? Was there an alternative to this? I am in favour of a big line on this part, i.e. the powers of the licensing authority for the Finnish Immigration Service, but here are the two problems, i.e. suspended legislative preparations, which may lead to changes in advance that are unnecessary, and, secondly, these disproportionate, potentially disproportionate journeys for asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u109	Madam President! I understand this proposal in such a way that it seeks to develop the division of labour and the powers of the various authorities in these matters. It is certainly good there in the Administrative Committee to look at these details and also at the accessions to the previous proposal to which Mr Paatero referred. In this context, I myself would have liked to draw attention only to the fact that there is obviously a great deal of potential in the administration through the development of activities and division of labour to make sensible savings. I am referring here to one example that has become topical: When there were a very large number of asylum seekers in the country last year, over 30,000, it was started to wonder whether it was actually a good system, that we had the police or the Border Guard in the case of a foreign asylum seeker and then, after a few weeks or even months, separately the Finnish Immigration Service is doing this actual asylum interview. When this was considered, it was concluded that this does not make much sense, but that things would go smoothly and without unnecessary waiting for this applicant, that it was decided that, at the same time, the Finnish Immigration Service would also conduct this initial interview on basic information and then the actual interview on asylum. Madam Speaker! With this I would just like to say that this change was made when there were ten times as many asylum seekers last year. Perhaps the benefits and savings of this change from the point of view of bureaucracy could and should have been made before such an exceptional situation occurred. So I would like to say that the administration should constantly consider the division of labour and the development of activities as sensible as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u110	Mr President! Indeed, some of these government proposals, which we see now, are good, but on the other hand they are also such as to shut down the bushes, because, of course, it creates terrible official processes when 32,000 people rush into the country and start these asylum applications. Of course, it starts changing systems and everything is messed up and trying to find savings. Good for you, but I hope that, as a basic Finn, we are also alert to this main problem, namely that asylum can still be applied for indefinitely. If these border arrangements, which have now been made here in Europe, do not, then we will be facing a very big problem very soon, a bigger one than we are now. As far as this government proposal is concerned, I must mention that I have received some feedback from people that there is a great deal of trust in the police in Finland at all. People trust the police. But instead, people’s credit to this Immigration Service is beginning to weaken just because these positive asylum decisions are being distributed here most easily throughout Europe. In other words, I hope that this will actually happen now, so that this investigation process, the route and the story that has come before the police hearings will be intensified, as the asylum interview will now be launched. I hope, however, that the same objectivity that the police have maintained in the past will remain there. This is what I hope the committees will ask when the experts are consulted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u111	Mr President! Here again, it is good to note that this main line itself, which seeks to rationalise this cooperation between the various authorities and also to seek synergies and to consider how we can manage these issues more effectively in our administration, must be fully supported and explicitly reflected in such a situation. And there are very sensible proposals in that direction in this government proposal. But then I would go into this matter where Mr Paatero also's own speech lacked, that every week, when these amendments to the foreign law are brought to this Chamber for referral, then, in a way, it is easy to forget that these big issues should have been dealt with as a whole and looked at the reform of this foreign law as a whole and then, in that context, think about a number of parts of how they are intertwined. We know that the last time we talked about family reunification, the last time we talked about this issue of legal security, the last time about this abolition of the humanitarian section — and so on — all of which, on the other hand, are linked. So it would certainly be more sensible for people to understand what these reforms of the Aliens Act are aimed at, that this should be done in a holistic way and that it should not be done at once, that they always come in drops and week after week here, and then they are always in a different pace in committee week after week. These solutions come in a few drops, although then some of these issues should focus explicitly on how they affect one another.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u112	Madam President! I am witnessing the same thing as my fellow committee member in this regard. Admittedly, in the Administrative Committee, the handling of foreign law is now at least setting itself on a somewhat more difficult track. When reading this government proposal, I drew the same attention as Mr Paatero, among other things, in his own speech. But in addition to that, I would also like to draw attention to these resource issues. This government's proposal is also based on more efficient use of resources. Last year, a little over a year ago, there was a parliamentary working group in this Parliament that was then in charge of police and justice, which presented to the police, to the Border Guard and so on EUR 75 million more money to carry out their duties. The government contributed EUR 50 million to these players. As far as police resources are concerned, it was not a question of raising the level for this money either, but only of patching up the narrowing down of the spending limits. To this end, our asylum system. Mr Savio may have already left, but the claim that asylum decisions are being handed out in Finland shows either ignorance or indifference from the MP. One third of the people who have submitted an asylum application in Finland receive an asylum decision, and this level is good at European level in many ways.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u113	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u114	Thank you, President-in-Office, and my finger was not exactly up to date when I tried to see where this revision of the information society cycle, version 1.1, came from. In practice, this aims to correct a number of problems identified in the arc and to update it in the light of changes in the environment. These amendments, which have mainly been tabled, are fully justified, but I would like to raise a couple of questions which I found there during the first round of chapters. For the time being, the proposal remains the most transparent fate of the so-called net neutrality. It is a technical change as such, because the Council of Europe and Parliament have adopted a regulation on the neutrality of information networks, which replaces the national laws on network neutrality of the Member States, including Finland. It's a pity, because there was a good debate on neutrality during the last parliamentary term and the result was a good law. The problem here is, however, that the guidelines for the application of that regulation are not yet complete, even though the regulation is already coming into force and national laws must be repealed. As a result, this proposal also states that this change will have an impact on the position of consumers, businesses and public authorities, but it is not yet possible to explain what these changes are. I do not believe that this is the best possible culture of governance at EU level. I look forward to what happens when the committee tries to find out about this point. Changes in the confidentiality of radio communications are also interesting. The proposal has sought out, and quite rightly so, the balance between the protection of privacy and the development of new digital services, because first of all, the changes have been fixed for a limited period of time, so that their effects can be monitored, and the proposal stresses in various ways that only anonymous data can be processed and cannot be combined with individuals. Nevertheless, this makes it possible to develop services that have so far not been developed, as companies have feared that this would pose a legal risk to them. However, one open question in this confidentiality of radio communications remains open. As the presentation now allows for the monitoring of radio traffic by remote control devices, such as these drones, does this in fact also mean autonomous vehicles, for example robot cars, which are in constant radio traffic with traffic infrastructure and other vehicles? In fact, they are not very different from these flying drones, at least technically. At this point, we must be particularly careful not to accidentally hinder the development of these new digital services in transport. Finally, it is truly excellent that this proposal introduces into the information society cycle the provisions of the so-called public regulated satellite services. In practice, this obviously means Galileo, but this definition is sufficiently vague in this proposal that it is likely to mean other services. But in any case, this is a very good thing, because satellite services are one of the things that is becoming increasingly important in the very basic infrastructure, in the everyday lives of citizens and in the activities of public authorities. And that is also why it is a very important question for Finland that the economic importance of this so-called near-space or upper atmosphere is increasing, and here both the international regulations and then the Finnish legislation are, in fact, quite open — it is not. It is a good thing that we also get this matter into a so-called legal position. Mr President, I look forward to hearing what we will hear about this in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u115	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u116	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The above-mentioned topical debate on the shadow economy and economic delinquency of the opposition argued that EUR 5 million would have been saved from the resources to combat the shadow economy during this parliamentary term. I do not know whether the figure is the right one, but I wanted to show in the debate that if and when the government as a whole is saving around EUR 4000 million in this parliamentary term for one of the more difficult targets, then this EUR 5 million will not be very much. Of course, the answer was that by putting $5 million back in the fight against the shadow economy, much more will be achieved. In fact, I also believe that if the resources allocated to combating the shadow economy are properly spent on the police, the prosecution services, Customs and so on, this money will come back and indeed with interest. I therefore believe that if we see — when the government now finalises its programme to combat the shadow economy — that there are legitimate resource needs to which the allocation of resources can increase the return of the shadow economy to society, these additional resources should be used for this. But not all the fight against the black economy will require more money. I already pointed out in the debate that during the last parliamentary term, towards the end of the parliamentary term, it was decided in Parliament that illegally obtained evidence could be used. This was a very important line in the fight against the shadow economy, because it can be said that all these leaks, whether they be Panama papers, Liechtenstein papers or Luxembourg papers, have come in one way or another through illegal activities, and if they could not then be used as evidence in tax and judicial proceedings, then that would be a very sad situation. I have to say that I personally contributed to the fact that illegal evidence, for example, can be used in these situations, even though many so-called human rights lawyers were horrified by this idea. Mr President! Now we are dealing with another law that will strengthen the fight against the shadow economy and, above all, the recovery of the proceeds of crime without any further money being required. It is a pity that, for example, representatives of Rinne, Feldt-Ranta and The magpie is not here now — they all argued in the above debate that the current government had not done anything before the Panama papers to combat the black economy. The law before us means that, in certain limited situations, the recovery of the proceeds of crime, the burden of proof does not normally lie with the prosecutor, but with this criminal convicted of the crime. So it is a so-called translated burden of proof. Of course, this is a considerable exception in our legal system, and this does not, of course, concern the guilt itself. So, as far as guilt is concerned, there is, of course, a normal burden of proof in which the prosecutor must prove the accused guilty and the accused does not have to prove himself innocent. But once a person has been proved guilty and criminal, such as a drug criminal or a financial criminal, and when he has considerable amounts of unexplainable money, the prosecutor will no longer have to prove by what crime these funds have been committed, because in practice it is often an overwhelming task for the prosecutor. On the contrary, this defendant, whose account in the tax havens, such as Panama, contains millions of euros, must show by what legal means this money has appeared in his account or by what legal means he has obtained this money, which he has then put into his tax haven account. From a practical point of view, this change is of great practical importance in these major financial crime cases, the big drug crime cases. Thus, at the last reading, at first reading, it became clear that, although the professor-level experts have reacted with rejection or, at least, with a good feeling to such an exception from our normal legal system, it is the practical men and women — I understand: financial investigators and policemen — who have welcomed this very much. And as much as I do not appreciate in these contexts the view of these so-called human rights lawyers, that is, the view of theorists, and more than that of the practical people, such as the police and prosecutors, I very much welcome this reform. I am very pleased that this proposal has been made by the government. I am also pleased that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not find the proposal unconstitutional and against a fair trial, unlike what it did with a similar proposal some 15 years ago. Thirdly, I am very pleased that although the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which did not consider the proposal to be unconstitutional, felt that this procedure should not be followed, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, chaired by the representative of its chairman, Mr Tolvanen, decided, contrary to the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that this government proposal should be implemented. I'll finish by saying that his wallet is his place as a financial criminal. This is the kind of reform that will make it easier to recover the proceeds of crime very welcome.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u117	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz made a very good speech on this so-called translated burden of proof. Yes, I am a little confused that there are only two representatives of the People's Party and two representatives of the People's Party in this Chamber — of course the President is also here — but not, for example, any opposition representatives who, two hours ago, accused the current government of not doing anything to eradicate the black economy. As Mr Zyskowicz said, there are no more loud critics present. So this is about changing Chapter 10 of the Criminal Code. For financial criminals, that worst fear is the fear of losing money, and this translated burden of proof is now being extended specifically to this suspicious property, its origin. In future, the burden of proof in criminal matters rests with the plaintiff, the prosecutor or the plaintiff, but then if the person is found guilty and has such a questionable great fortune, he is obliged to prove in what honest manner that property has been acquired or whether there is any reason to believe that it has come through the crime. In the first debate, I quoted the State Prosecutor Ritva Sawavirta, and he has done a thorough job on this issue. He notes that the consequence of the loss of the proceeds of crime is an effective means of combating financial crime, and the current government now wants to introduce this effective means.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u118	Madam President! I would like to say to Mrs Heinos that she should not be surprised, for example, at the absence of the Socialists and the Greens from this debate. With all this conviction, they can blame the current government for having done nothing to combat financial crime when they do not take part in the discussions on the proposals that the current government specifically acts against economic crime and the shadow economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u119	Mr President! International automatic exchange of income and tax information will further reduce the opportunities for tax evasion from the beginning of next year, as has been said many times in this Chamber today. This extensive cooperation on information exchange involves dozens of countries and further tightens the network around tax evaders. Of course, the system will not be complete in the future, but at least the easiest means of tax evasion will, in my view, be prevented. Mr President! The race between tax evaders and its inhibitors is a continuous one-step race, and, unfortunately, the tax avoidance forces are always ahead of at least one step in this race. For this very reason alone, the government and Parliament must continue to do what they can to plug all known loopholes. The reverse burden of proof on the origin of suspicious property in connection with this legislative reform under discussion is another step in the right direction on the government's list of measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u120	Madam President! Mr Zyskowicz, former prosecutor, has been actively involved in this debate. When we had that previous debate, I received some feedback that this is a revolutionary change and in some way jeopardises people's legal certainty, and even was suggested that, when it has been so far, 'not guilty until proven otherwise', then the model would become 'guilty until proven otherwise'. That is not what this is about. I would ask Mr Zyskowicz when you, as a former prosecutor and lawyer, know these things well: are there any dangers here that could in some way jeopardise legal protection?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-04-26-ps-43.u121	Madam President! I don't think so. A fair trial is an important European and Western principle of a civilised state, and that is also respected by this law. In other words, it is quite clear that, as I said in my speech, the accused does not have to prove himself innocent, but the prosecutor must prove the accused guilty. This translated burden of proof refers to certain specific situations in which a criminal already found guilty has this property. In such a particular situation, in which it is practically impossible for the prosecutor to prove this acquisition of property by a criminal act, the accused becomes obliged to prove that this inexplicable property has been acquired by legal means. This is a very welcome reform and, as I said 15 years ago, it was on the agenda, but it was then brought down by the Constitutional Committee. Otherwise, an example of how loyally the Constitutional Committee, understandably in itself, listens to these theoretical experts, is that, although the Constitutional Committee has now adopted this proposal, that it is not contrary to the Constitution, the Constitutional Committee nevertheless makes its own statement in this third paragraph that this reform should not be carried out. And it is an indication that the word of the experts there is a strong one, as it should be, that although the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is proposing that this reform should not be carried out, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for example, said here at first reading that he is very pleased that the Committee on Legal Affairs did not act as the Committee on Constitutions did in its unanimous opinion. The Legal Affairs Committee therefore proposed that the law should be adopted, and that is a good thing.
