ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-23-ps-76.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The Council of Presidents proposes that Parliament should decide to suspend the Parliament at the end of this plenary session and to continue its work on Tuesday 6 September 2016 at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-23-ps-76.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 10/2016 vp. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 22 June 2016. In the debate, Mr Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objection 1. With the support of Hanna Halmenpää, Ozan Yanar has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objection 2. Kari Uotila, supported by Li Andersson, has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objection 3. With the support of Anna-Maja Henriksson, Joakim Strand has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objections 4. With the support of Mr Sari Tanus, Peter Östman has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objection 5. Pia Viitanen, supported by Kari Uotila, has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objection 6. With the support of Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, Pia Viitanen has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objections 7. Pia Viitanen, supported by Mr Yanar, has proposed that Parliament approve the statement of objections 8.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-23-ps-76.u3	First, we'll vote for Pia Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-23-ps-76.u4	The election of the second Vice-President will now be followed by compliance with the provisions of Article 34(2) of the Finnish Constitution and Articles 5 and 6 of the Parliamentary Statute. So the election will be delivered on a full-time basis. Representatives shall bring their ballots to the urn according to roll call, which shall be delivered in alphabetical order. I would like to point out that the name of the candidate must also be identified with sufficient precision, if necessary, using the first name. Nu följer val av andre vice talman, viiket förrättas enligt 34 § 2 moments i Finlands grundlag och 5 och 6 § i valstadgan för riksdage. Valet förrättas således med slutna röstsedlar. Riksdagsledamoterna ska enligt namnupprop i alphabetisk ordning lögga röstsedeln i urnan. Jag vill påminna om att candidates namn ska anges tillräckligt tydligt. Vid behov kan också förnamnet anges. As assistants for checking ballots and counting votes in the election, I would ask the following representatives: Olavi Ala-Nissila, Ritva Elomaa, Kalle Jokinen and Lauri Ihalainen. Jag ber följande ricksdagsledamoter granska röstsedlarna och rösterna vid lies: Olavi Ala-Nissilä, Ritva Elomaa, Kalle Jokinen och Lauri Ihalainen. I note that the votes cast are not made public. Jag ber er notera att namnen på röstsedlarna inte läses upp.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-23-ps-76.u5	The result of the vote shall be read. Omröstningsresultatet avkunnas.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-23-ps-76.u6	When Mr. Arto Satonen has received more than half of the votes cast in the election, he has been elected second Vice-President of Parliament for the remainder of the 2016 Parliament. Eftersom ledamot Arto Satonen vid liet erhållit mer ylften av de avgivna godkanda rösterna, har Han valts till andre vice talman för den återstående tiden av riksmötet 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-23-ps-76.u7	I would ask the other Vice-President to give Parliament the solemn assurance provided for in Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure. Jag ber den andre vice talmannen att inför riksdage avge sin högtidliga försäkran i enlighet med 4 § i arbetsordningen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-23-ps-76.u8	I Arto Olavi Satonen assure you that, according to my powers as President, I defend the right of the Finnish people and parliament according to the Constitution. Jag Arto Olavi Satonen försäkrar att jag som talman effecter all min förmåga skall försvara finska folkets och riksdagens rättigheter enligt constitutionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-23-ps-76.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, please. In the words of Maaria Leinonen, "I was born in the arms of this landscape. I'm learning to breathe It's urgent. / I learned the steps. Songs. - I'm a part of it. / I learned to see the forest from the trees, /wood forest. / To hear the fly of the butterfly,/ see /Now/ anywhere/but home in this landscape." Tack för detta år, och jag önskar er en trevlig sommar.
