ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. I would ask the representatives to address the question to the relevant Minister for Sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u2	First question, Mr Guzenina.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u3	Mr President! When I was a minister, I launched a comprehensive account of the past of child protection in our country. The results of the study were published last spring. Children were held in inhumane conditions. They were forced to work, abused, sexually abused, and subjected to constant arbitrariness. The government finally announced two weeks ago that Finland intends to apologize to those who have been abused in children's homes and in school homes for decades. I am sure we all agree that it is a good thing that the government has decided to recognise the fate of those who have lost their childhood. However, it was also an essential part of the launch of this study that compensation should be paid to these mistreated people for everything they have experienced, as has been done in the Swedish civilised state and in the Norwegian civilised state. Finland does not wish to pay compensation. Mr. Prime Minister, why?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u4	Mr President! About three hundred Finns have been asked about having been in foster care between 37 and 83 C.E. The report that came out in the spring is such a reading that even after reading a few pages it can be said that human dignity has been violated, you might say, forgotten. Secondly, we are now making a state apology on the coming Sunday. It is one part and one way of responding to people who have become abused. Every life is unique and important, and this too has been one message that, when this apology is made, has come as feedback. It's a relief for at least some people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u5	I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u6	Mr President! In Sweden, the government first tried to adopt the same approach as Minister Ruhula, that apologies are requested but no compensation is paid. Due to the public upsurge in the matter, the then Swedish Prime Minister civilised himself and reversed his minister's decision and granted compensation. I do not understand why Finland could not do the same. Mr President! There are also problems with the present situation in child welfare. The sad case of Eerika is still in everyone's memory, as is the recent case of Oulu's incest father, where the girl was left unsaved, even though all the signs were visible. In addition to a study of the past of child welfare, a comprehensive survey of the current state of child welfare was carried out in Finland during the last parliamentary term by the demars. Could you tell us, Minister Rehula, the shortcomings revealed by this report — and I am sure you know them — and the stage at which they are being corrected?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u7	Mr President! Sweden has been faced with a situation in which decision-making has taken place, it has been a process in which solutions have been made in favour of compensation, it has been decided not to pay, and then another kind of decision has been made. These control countries and control decisions can be found when international comparisons are made with this type of situation. Secondly, there are these individual cases of child welfare, each of which is too much. What happened in the case of Eerika, what happened after, or what has happened since the situation in Oulu, has been examined very carefully. And after that Eerika incident, for example, the City of Helsinki renewed child welfare practices in such a way that such a situation should never happen again, and it must never happen again. What has the government done? I think it was the previous government that put things in motion, the work of the social adviser Aulikki Kananoja in charge, paragraph 55.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u8	Mr President! I think it is very good that we have conducted research-based studies on the lives of children and young people. For example, a recent school health survey revealed that about half of the young people in the 8th and 9th grade felt that the teacher or the adult of the school was not interested in their life or in their opinions and hearings. About 65 percent of them felt that school adults did not interfere in various bullying situations. In addition, a child barometer published yesterday states that about 20 per cent of boys aged 6 feel that they do not receive encouragement or praise or positive feedback from adults. These same references also apply to special children and child welfare children. They have felt that they have not been heard, that they have been left alone. Mr President! I ask Minister Ruhula: how does the government intend to address these shortcomings?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u9	Mr President! We have existing child protection legislation from 2008, and at the heart of its law — not only in spirit but at the heart of the law — is that the child should be heard. The child must be heard. When you asked how to deal with the situation, we have this government's top project on children and families, which is precisely about making use of existing practices, which have been gutted many times and have good models, so that these good models are available throughout the country. Secondly, one of the core elements of child protection legislation is the need for the authorities to exchange information. This exchange and exchange of information is at the heart of the discussion of the child’s interests. Thanks to the last term of government, I have read the news yesterday that the use of home services for families with children has increased, and that has been the best preventative work,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u10	Mr President! With his question, Mr Guzenina drew attention to an important issue. I myself chaired the Roma Advisory Council earlier and was very surprised when adults, big men, came to tell me about their experiences with Roma children’s homes, how systematic violence, bullying, sometimes some young people even took their lives in these children’s homes. It was extremely important for them to be forgiven for this, and they felt that these things have not been brought to light in Finland, even though, above all, some of our minority groups have had exceptionally strong means in place at the time. What are the ideas of this minister, and have the fates and affairs of Roma children's homes also come to the attention of the minister, and can these groups in particular still receive such an apology, an agreement of the past, in any way?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u11	Mr President! Each one of us is an individual, and in those children’s homes and places of foster care where abuse has been experienced, people have experienced them in very different ways even in the same locations and places. It's a very personal experience. Last night I received thanks from a person from a Roma background for inviting me to come to Finlandia House on Sunday and for being taken into account in this way by the government. It is a big thing that at least some of the people who are now the object of this attention and apology may have experienced this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u12	Mr President! Our child welfare institutions continue to be reported repeatedly on the humiliating treatment of children and on the illegal restriction of rights. However, the statutory control obligations are broadly in place, but in practice, due to the lack of resources, the regional government authorities do not have the possibility of an own initiative for audit activities and the audit activities in municipalities are very varied and random. Finnish cars are surveyed more regularly and firmly than Finnish child welfare services. What can we do now so that in 50 years' time, we do not have to hold another similar event at the Finlandia House?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u13	Mr President! There must be zero tolerance in the notification obligation. The legislation is very clear that, in a situation of malpractice, the professionals, whether they are in school, in school health care, in health care or in the police, have to make appropriate declarations. You have to have zero tolerance. The second thing, and the essential thing, is that children and young people are being consulted. They are the best experts in their lives, and the courage not to remain silent but to talk about them must be. One part of Mr Haavisto's question, which is directly related to this too, was that silence and reflection on matters themselves do not lead to a good outcome, but that is what matters matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u14	Mr President! Thank you, good government, for making a public apology. The sexual abuse of children was also raised here and the case of Oulu was raised. Thank you, too, for the first mention of the Oulu case in Parliament. A week ago, I was receiving this victim, Marlene, at the address of Temple Square. He called and asked that "come and receive my petition, take it forward." Mr Government, I have the address of Marlene, where she has raised some of the misdemeanours she has found in connection with the crimes of exploitation. Will you accept this petition? My second question: I have taken a bill to raise the threshold for sexual offences against children. At what point is this study in Finland where it was promised to investigate the general convictions, such as sexual offences in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u15	Well, I think it's Minister Lindström's question to answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u16	Mr President! We are talking about a very serious, important issue, and it is quite clear that these are issues that the government takes extremely seriously. When you asked whether we would accept the petition, we would accept that message and take it seriously and take all the measures we can do. We are constantly investigating the rights of the child, the right to visit the child. We are dealing with these crimes against children: what can be done about them, whether the legislation is in order? In this connection, I would also like to mention this so-called 'legal sense' project, which will be completed next spring. Then, for the first time, we will be able to draw conclusions from an investigation as to whether this legislation is in order in relation to the various crimes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u17	Mr President! Taking a child into custody is always a last resort. The child and his or her family are primarily assisted by other means, such as a support person, therapy or home service. The Social Welfare Act, which we adopted during the last term of government, has shifted the focus to this preventive early support, so that families can get help in good time and so often do not need child custody. However, according to the Ombudsman for Children, it seems that although the situation has improved, it is still difficult to obtain home service for families with children. Social workers also often have far too many customer families, up to 70 families with one employee. Hopefully, the Government's leading project, the programme to change child and family services, will bring about a change in this in due course. However, we cannot wait for its results, the obligation to take preventive action in relation to child and family work is already in force. What is the government going to do to get the situation in child welfare and early support for families in a timely manner?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u18	Mr President! One of the news of this week has been that the regulations made during the last parliamentary term to invest in the home service of families with children are producing results at least somewhere in the country. This was the city of Vantaa, just by name, I read the news, and thanks to Vantaa, I hope these vans are elsewhere. Secondly, we have Imatra as one example, which is repeated time and again by good practice of reducing the cost of child protection on the one hand, and, on the other hand, a better situation for the child's family than would otherwise be. What Imatra has done differently: it has invested in preventive work. How are we now trying to spread this throughout the country and remind them that preventive family work is important? Firstly, this government has contributed to the increase in these appropriations, and secondly, this key project is precisely because:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u19	Mr President! It is true that the activities and practices of child protection need to be changed and that the whole system needs to be replaced. The working group on child protection, to which the Minister also referred, and the quality recommendations for child protection are all about this. So we have information, but now we should simply ensure that these things are actually being reformed in the municipalities. Often it is not a question of money, although it usually is, but in this case, I can say that, for example, the relationships of power and responsibility in child protection in many places, unfortunately even in Helsinki in connection with this case of little Eerika, were not clear. There were about 20 child welfare reports on him, but they didn't go anywhere. Yes, then it is a problem that the system does not work. I am now asking the Minister: really, before this Lappe programme is able to intervene in these content of the services and in that consultation and participation, will there be more control or can it be made more effective in order to see whether these reforms are actually going forward?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u20	Mr President! Control has a role to play, of course, but what can be done and done at the end of the ministry is that we get follow-up information, we get information from the airport that actually happens there. These unfortunate examples have helped to gut — as I said, I have the knowledge that, for example, the people responsible for the protection of children in Helsinki have gone through the whole process — what happens there, that this kind of thing that has happened will never happen again. Oversight can reach some point, but vice versa, it is the daily work and the activities of the related multiprofessional working groups — where appropriate, it is important to have sufficient skills — that is at the heart of the work. And the most important thing is: knowledge must go, not be afraid, but must be communicated to one professional to another, bearing in mind the confidentiality obligations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u21	Mr President! There is abuse against children and minors not only in child protection but also in health care. The recent abuse in Oulu over many years, repeated rapes in the neighborhood, repeated abortions and finally childbirth — no one stopped enough, no one asked enough, no one had enough time or more courage to stop for a difficult matter, and the abuse was allowed to continue. I can't believe it. I would like to ask the Minister for Education: would it not be time to see to it that, in the future, there will also be credible workers in the field of education in gynecology who have a desire and have the courage to stop at difficult and complex issues for the benefit of us children and young people?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u22	Mr President! At the very serious and important points, we are also dealing with this issue. I think it is important, as Mr Ruhula has already pointed out, that we should be able to strengthen the professionalism and bring about the multi-professional cooperation models and forms that can address serious situations as early as possible and then intervene. And, of course, education plays a key role in this, when those professionals are trained to be adequately equipped to intervene. In this respect, of course, we are constantly trying to develop the education system in such a way that it also responds to these different needs, which is what multiprofessional activities and the exercise of children's rights require.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u23	I will give the floor to Mr Sarkomaa, Mr Henriksson and then to Mr Guzenina, the first author of this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u24	Mr President! When it comes to child welfare, there can be no more important matter, and when it comes to children, we must always talk about families. And it is excellent that we have a new social welfare law, which emphasises precisely that prevention and support for families at an early stage. We parliamentarians have received a number of embassies, from which it has been reported that the municipalities do not know this law, that home service must be provided in a preventive manner. A single mother with cancer who has more than one child has not received this help. And when we contacted the child - father councilman, he then contacted the ministry, and we also wrote a letter. I would like the Minister responsible to tell us what action has been taken. This development project for families with children is good, but it also takes time. Is there anything concrete that you could do here and now that those families would not be left alone, that a single mother would not be left alone with her cancer and that would prevent home help?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u25	Mr President! Municipal self-government is an issue in which municipalities have a responsibility and a role to play in this insofar as the ministry is able to intervene and has actually intervened. We are currently in the middle of a field tour of what kind of good practices exist. We have people who support municipal officials in the work that seeks to improve the work at municipal level so that changes can be made there. And then the phrase that does not warm up much here, but it is true: yes, we municipal decision-makers, for our part, are responsible for making budgetary decisions, in what way it is understood that this preventive work, just as in the Imatra model, actually saves a large amount of euros.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u26	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! I welcome the fact that Minister Ruhula and the government are about to make a state apology. Thank you to the government for this. This payment and payment of compensation in general we have had experience of the last term of government when the Ministry of Justice prepared the law at the time, which made it possible for the people who were interned after the post-war period to receive compensation. This law was adopted by Parliament in 2014, and in practice these children were now given the opportunity to apply for compensation, and it expired last year. These state compensations acknowledged to the internees that the activities of the Finnish authorities were unreasonable. Now I ask the government: should we now take a look at this case of last season?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u27	Mr President! There is a model, but the fact that we are today, here and now, in a situation where this formal state apology will be made on the coming Sunday is now the path that has been decided to move forward. The point raised by Mr Henriksson: you know better than I do how long the process went on then, where it came to the conclusion that the so-called full compensation of EUR 3000 and half the compensation of EUR 1500 were paid. It was the result of a long preparatory process. But I'm sure there's something to learn from this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u28	And Mr Guzenina, last question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u29	Mr President! The processes must be started somewhere to be completed, and it is really good that the government is now being recognised for the social welfare law that has been introduced during the last government term. There was no unanimous support for it at that time. But the current resources of child protection must be put in place, and they are far from being at the level of the civilised state. In addition, respect must be given to people who, in the past, were not protected by the protection of children by society from the terrible experiences of many of them who continue to suffer life-long trauma. However, Prime Minister Sipilä, would it not now be more honorable for you to withdraw this decision not to pay compensation to those who have been mistreated by child protection in the past, as your colleague in Sweden did in the past?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u30	Minister Ruhula.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u31	Mr President! Of course, there is no decision here that could be withdrawn. We have carefully reviewed this report, and it is wildly read, this which has happened a long time ago. When I have talked to people and received feedback about it, this apology and consideration of the matter is in the minds of these people the priority action that is now expected from the state. We took this up, and we humbly want to do so because of past decisions and respect for what these people have been through. What is being done from now on: lessons need to be learned from this, we need to intervene earlier in these matters, and we need to make sure that information is passed between the authorities when it comes to the child's matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u32	Next question, Mr Modig.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u33	Mr President! The U.S. Guggenheim Foundation has long sought to get its own museum in Helsinki. The decision-makers in Helsinki have been critical of the project and have already rejected it once. Now, however, the project is back on track. In the past, Helsinki and the Guggenheim Foundation made it necessary for the state to contribute to the financing of the project. You, Prime Minister Sipilä, said that the State is not going to support the project. And you, Minister Soini, said very clearly: Gug-gen-heim does not receive state aid. Now, however, the project is before us in Helsinki again, because Mr Grahn-Laasonen, Minister for Education and Culture, has promised that Mr Guggenheim will be eligible for state aid and will receive EUR 1.3 million per year. The decision that we in Helsinki have before us is conditional on this state aid in the form of VOS. And since the government has now provided such contradictory information, I would ask you, my dear government, whether Guggenheim is going to receive state funding or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u34	I'm sure the Minister of Education will answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u35	Mr President! This Guggenheim project is now very much on the agenda because it is coming to the decision-making stage at the Helsinki City Council. As a government, we have decided that the State will not contribute to the construction costs. This new model, which is in the decision-making bodies of the city, is based much more on private donations than the previous ones, and I am very pleased that we have people in Finland who want to fund culture in Finland. So that's how I'm going to thank these people. What will happen to this project and whether it will succeed in the City Council of Helsinki can only be answered by the City Council of Helsinki. It's not our business here today. But what we have given the world about the Ministry of Education and Culture: not a promise, but a preliminary view of the conditions under which, just like other museums in Finland, they can become part of the state, and it will become topical when such an application is made, if this project progresses. And on top of that...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u36	It was so brisk for over a minute. I would now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u37	Mr President! We couldn't figure out the government's line. After all, the project is still largely implemented through public funds and taxpayers' money. In this form, your promise of access to the system of state aids is an essential reason why this is a proposal before us in the first place. The central government system is the backbone of Finnish cultural funding and has been cut by 3.3 million since 2014, but now suddenly 1.3 million more per year have been found to be allocated to the US Foundation project, and you also say that this is not out of the other beneficiaries. This raises great questions and confusion. After cutting 3.3 million from existing operators, would it not be reasonable with this new money to compensate for the cuts that have already been made and to support our domestic art field, and not allow the US Foundation to become one of the largest museums enjoying state interests?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u38	Mr President! Yes, the cuts referred to here were made during the previous government, and I think the Left Alliance had the portfolio of the Minister of Culture. That's what I'm talking about. If we look at the world, the creative sectors and tourism are growing, and of course I hope that Finland too will be able to benefit from these funds and tourist flows and invest in the creative sectors. We have a wonderful cultural field in Finland, and, for example, Helsinki and the Helsinki Metropolitan Area have done a wonderful job in the way in which culture has been brought even more strongly into the city's vitality. Examples of this are, for example, that decisions have already been taken during this government to finance, among other things, the Dance House, which is a wonderful project. What the City Council decides is a matter for the City Council of Helsinki, but I would like to,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u39	Mr President! Mr Grahn-Laasonen himself knows that what he said about these cuts of 3.3 million does not apply to the then Minister for Culture, Mr Arhinmäki, because they were made after I was no longer Minister. You know it well yourself, but it's good to go around the truth. What is essential is that next year the state transfers of museums will be cut, and this will affect the fact that museums will in fact receive only two thirds of the shares of the state that they will receive under this VOS system. VOS is not given on the basis that it may bring tourism income but on the basis of art. So this can't be the reason for giving the VOSs. And that's not all. The construction of the Guggenheim Museum requires that VAT during the construction of the museum is not paid. If anyone believes that this construction will cost it 130 million, then 31 million will be spoken of. Mr President! So I ask the government: do you think the Guggenheim Museum should pay?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u40	Mr President! The Guggenheim Foundation has submitted an application for VAT, and this application is treated in the normal way and treated in the same way as other similar entities in the past. This is a purely fiscal decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u41	Mr President! The Committee on Finance and Education has also dealt with the whole issue. Our great concern is that Finnish culture has been saved a long way now, and we understand that when we save so little money, the big question is whether this saving line can be continued. Next year, saving will continue to be very hard, and many museums and cultural actors will be very tight. At the same time, it does not look good for the government not to be able to tell us what the common line is for cultural operators and these museum operators. We have noted that it does not give a good impression that there is a variety of voices here as to whether the new possibility of a private museum to receive state aid is being treated in the same way as Minister Grahn-Laasonen has in the public domain. Low, yet to be saved euros would be allocated to a new private museum
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u42	I am sorry that I sometimes have to come to the speech because it is so obvious that the agreed time limit is exceeded.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u43	Mr President! The government programme of this government does not include any new direct cuts in culture, which means that what we now have to do, which are in the framework there, is a legacy from previous governments and a very unfortunate one. Instead, in cultural policy, we have sought to launch structural reforms that have remained on the table of previous governments — the process has been, but have not been, completed — and which relate, among other things, to the reform of state aid and state aid. Then there is an increase in lending fees, which has been a very positive thing for the library community — the new library law has just arrived — and an av-incentive to bring film productions to Finland. In other words, on the cultural field we also have a great deal of positive news, but of course it is also the case that you would always wish there were more of those resources.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u46	Mr President! In Las Vegas, Vilnius, Berlin, the Guggenheim project hasn't gone quite right. Taxpayers fear that, if this project is implemented, a large slice of it will be paid by taxpayers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u49	Mr President! It is certainly the case that, when you look at the history of cultural policy, there has always been strong opposition to all major cultural projects. And in this Guggenheim case, of course, I hope that the decision-makers there at the City Council in Helsinki will make informed decisions as to what the model is and, for example, how it has evolved from the first models that were public at the time, and in this respect I fully trust that the City Council of Helsinki will be able to assess this issue. But we have a great cultural field in Finland. Museums, for example, are now very well placed to ensure that, through new innovations such as the Museum Card, for example, the number of visitors is very high and we have many new museums and new museums opened. Forssa, my home town, for example, has also chosen the Forssa Museum as the Museum of the Year here a couple of years ago, and it has done a wonderful job there. Perhaps if something were left in the hands of this debate, I would encourage people to visit museums and spend cultural services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u50	Mr President! For Helsinki city councillors, the question of whether the government intends to support the establishment of the Guggenheim Museum is not trivial at all. In Helsinki, however, we are in a situation where, in practice, if the majority of the council decides to build Guggenheim and if it turns out that the government does not meet with state interests, then the council will easily then be in a situation where the costs of its museum will be financed. As a representative and delegate in East Helsinki, I myself fear how it will happen to our local libraries, children's culture, residents' houses and so on, if we are in a situation where the government first suggests that there is support and then there is virtually no support. Because the government has now become so different from the different ministers
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u51	Would the Prime Minister like to respond?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u52	Mr President! The Government has addressed the issue of state funding for the Guggenheim investment, and we have decided not to support the Guggenheim investment. Instead, I am pleased to note that private money is being found for such projects. Yes, Helsinki needs destinations where tourists can stop. It's obvious. But in this situation it is not possible for the State to support that investment — let it be made clear to everyone here. If the City of Helsinki wants to invest money, it is a matter for the City Council of Helsinki. It is a matter for private parties if they want to invest in it. Everyone can make their own decision. As far as supporting activity is concerned, action will begin during the next term of government. The following governments will then make their own decisions on support for action.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u53	I will give the Minister the floor on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u54	Mr President! That is exactly what I am going to say on our side at the moment: the Ministry of Education and Culture has, on request, given a preliminary view of the criteria that can be applied to the state, and our assessment and the official view is that this would amount to around EUR 1.3 million. Of course, just as Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto is certainly well aware of cultural policy, he knows that the person years of museums, such as theatres and orchestras, are fixed separately each year. In other words, for each museum there is a political risk that they may change year after year, and in this respect this Guggenheim solution does not differ in any way from other museums. I have noted that we have a happy situation in terms of the use of the winning pool that has developed positively, which has made it possible to invest more strongly in culture with the funding, and I believe that this could be one way, for example, to enable Guggenheim in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u55	In this debate, I will give the floor to Mr Heinäluoma and then to Mr Modig, the first author of this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u56	Mr President! Man does not live alone on bread, yes, it also needs this nourishment of spirit and soul, and culture gives us all, not only these superart enthusiasts, lovers of modern art, but also everyone else. Of course, this project also has a major tourist significance, as has been seen from similar museums in New York and Bilbao, But then it is one thing to have doubts about this. The decision-making process is now in Helsing's hands. As a tax payer in Helsinki and as a Helsinkier, I cannot be terribly unhappy if the government were involved, as is the case with other museum projects. But it is equally clear that the government's line must be clear both in relation to investment grants and in relation to access to operating costs, as is generally the case with museums. The Prime Minister's answer was clear, he agrees with Minister Soin that there will be no investment grants, but I would like the Prime Minister to confirm that you are well advised that this museum can receive the same operating costs grants as other museums in Finland. It would make it easier to make decisions so that there is no uncertainty about the state line in a project of this size.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u57	Mr President! Now we're going in circles over the same question. The Minister for Education and Culture answered that question. The preliminary decision has been taken here, and the next governments will then take decisions every year and in their budget, just as the Minister for Education and Culture said. For the investment, this government will not provide any assistance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u58	Congressman Modig, final question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u59	Mr President! The level of private funding for this project has been very successful in exaggerating. Anyone familiar with this economic plan knows that the biggest responsibility for funding rests on the city of Helsinki. If the project goes wrong, the responsibility lies with the City of Helsinki, which is the taxpayers in Helsinki. We have no objection to the cultural project at the Helsinki parade site. We would like it to reflect perhaps Finland or Finnishness and our own expertise in some way. You said now, Sipilä, that there is therefore a precedent for this. So, Minister Soini, isn't the government's support through the state's contribution state money? But I would like to say to Mrs Grahn-Laasonen that, when you criticise the fact that the previous governments have left you with a burden, you are leaving quite a burden here for the next governments. This project is planned for 20 years, 1.3 million a year: 26 million state aids, Minister Soini.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u60	Did Secretary Grahn-Laasonen find a question about this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u61	Mr President! As I recall, Mr Modig is also the City Councillor of Helsinki and will be able to decide on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u64	Next question, Congressman Wave.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u65	Mr President! The government has made huge cuts to basic human security and education. But there's still enough money for one risky investment over and over again. The bottomless money hole in Winterfell has already been driven by nearly one billion euros throughout its entire life cycle, and there is no end to it. This Winterfell miracle costs taxpayers EUR 10 million a month. The Government justifies the extension of Talvivaara and the additional funding of EUR 100 million by the fact that the mine may be on a sustainable economic and environmental basis. I ask the Prime Minister: how much money does the mining of taxpayers or investors need before the company’s cash flow is positive, and has the company’s descriptive cash flow forecast for 2018 taken into account the investments and obligations that environmental permits are very likely to require?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u66	Mr President! The Minister of Responsibility is not here, the Prime Minister is now trying to be the Minister of General Affairs. First of all, what has been done in Terrafame over a year or so can be called a miracle. The employees of state-owned companies are rarely commended. They have to be, work under greater pressure of publicity than usual, and what was left there and where has now been achieved can be called a miracle. The environment is in a completely different state than it was a year ago. A huge number of risks and problems in the process have been resolved during the year. But of course in economic activity, business always carries an economic risk. This too has been reduced in the course of the year; it has been well planned to move forward. The company’s estimate is currently that it needs funding of EUR 150 million before it becomes cash-flow positive
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u67	I would ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u68	Mr President! During Terrafame, the water problem at the Talvivaara mine has mainly been solved only with additional runs that are contrary to the environmental permit and environmental law. The waste water treatment technology that has already been needed since the mine was set up is only in the piloting phase. An industrial-scale water treatment plant may have to wait for several years. Prime Minister: on what basis has the environment in the Talvivaara mine been handled well during Terrafame?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u69	Mr President! The value of the metal emissions in these wastewaters is about one tenth of the values permitted by the environmental permit, i.e. go clearly within those limits. The water balance or water supply in the area has decreased from 10 million cubic metres to 4.2 million cubic metres. The main thing is that the process now works, evaporates about 300,000 cubic metres of water per month. So the process works in such a way that it consumes water and does not produce waste water and water that has formed that risk for the region to be preserved. Because the area is huge, it rains water, and this water balance must be maintained in such a way that no polluted waters enter the environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u70	Mr President! In the past few years, quite a few lakes have been destroyed in a very weak condition around Winterfell. Now the question is: What is the reality of this situation in Lake Nuas, because these wastewaters are now being run into it, huge amounts have been drawn along that pipe? Lake Nuasjärvi is a very sensitive ecosystem. Although the concentrations are very low, it can cause irreplaceable damage, and this is then linked through water bodies to large water bodies, to the river Oulu and so on. Is the Prime Minister fully convinced that this is a safe road?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u72	I give the Prime Minister the floor. At the same time, I note that the Minister for the Environment is not here. This is about to go to some kind of substance, but the Prime Minister will be able to answer if he so wishes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u73	Mr President! Water to Lake Nuas also meets clearly stricter environmental permit requirements. I have also received assurance from the Ministry of the Environment that this is the case. I spent a long time discussing this with the Chief of Staff of the Ministry of the Environment, and he also witnessed the same thing when, of course, he went to the mine at different stages of it, and he said that during the year there has been a miracle from an environmental point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u74	Mr President! On the basis of such an overall analysis, we have concluded that there are three reasons why Terrafame's mining activities should be continued: The take-off has taken place as planned, and now time is also needed for this new external ownership to become an anchor owner, and it will now require a little more effort. Secondly, however, these environmental issues have progressed in the desired way. And in our thinking, one thing weighs almost beyond the others, and that is that this is a job for 1,500 people and the livelihood of their families. This, too, is quite an important issue. In the Kainuu region, if this goes down, there will be no new work for these people immediately. We think there must be work and livelihood, and this is a big Christmas present for these families.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u75	Would the Prime Minister like to comment?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u76	Mr President! That is precisely the case, and the fact that the workers who work at the mine have done a very good job over the last year and over a longer period of time to get these things right. The workers reported that they have also been under great pressure and pressure in their private lives because of this company’s bad reputation and this public debate. In this context, I think they deserve to be commended for the fine work that has been done there in Kainuu. For all of Kainuu, this is also of enormous importance as jobs. This mine, when operating, has a full capacity of more than 10 per cent of the total gross domestic product of Kainuu. It's really important there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u77	Mr President! Terrafame has certainly succeeded in these environmental issues, quite indisputably. Tomorrow, by the way, Terrafame will launch a large new central water treatment plant, and there will be several water pilots running, all of which will continue to take this Terrafame forward. According to the impact study published yesterday, Terrafame is on the road to employing more than 4,000 people annually in Finland, approximately 1,500 people in Kainuu. Its production impact is over one billion euros per year in Finland, i.e. a huge Finnish employer. At the moment, with the new decision, Terrafame will be capitalised by 100 million, now worth less than half a billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u78	Mr President! This is real. A new central cleaning plant will be introduced in the region, there will be constant work to improve the process and to make further progress in environmental matters. For example, this water balance has very quickly improved. I must say in that way that if we were to deal with all the problems, especially those which are in a very negative tone in the public debate, in the same way as that persistent group in Sotkamo, I believe that Finland would be a very different-looking country today. With tenacity they have set us an example in making the impossible possible. As far as this extension of funding is concerned, the government’s condition has been that private money should be found. ♪ Now we are ♪
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u79	I give the floor to Mr Sarkkinen and Mr Järvinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u80	Mr President! A lot of taxpayers' money has been spent on the Winterfell mine and, in any case, money will still have to be spent, either to support the operation or to shut down. The best thing for Kainuu's employment is for the mine to continue and for jobs to remain there. However, the activities must meet the environmental framework conditions. The environment can no longer be ruined and old environmental damage must be compensated. Furthermore, the mine must be economically viable, and taxpayers' money cannot be put there for long. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: when will the conclusions be drawn once and for all if private investors are not involved, i.e. what is the final date? I would also like to ask the Prime Minister: What has substantially changed between spring and today when you said there was a miracle? What is this miracle now?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u81	Mr President! There's a lot of questions. I'll start here at the end, which is what's changed in a year. When we made our decisions last summer, last spring, we had three big risks at hand: we had an environmental risk, we had a process risk, and we had a financial risk. In the circumstances when we were dealing with the matter, we came to the conclusion that closing is the preferred option. We left the door open to the fact that if these things are put in order and external funding is found, then the operation can continue. Now there has been a significant reduction in environmental risk, and things have been sorted out. There has been a significant reduction in the risk of processes; things have been sorted out; there is already evidence of this. And the financial risk will be reduced as planned. This is the big change that's been going on here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u82	The Minister of Finance has something to say about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u83	Mr President! We have indeed set aside for this supplementary budget proposal, which will be submitted to Parliament shortly, EUR 100 million, and when you consider this from the point of view of central government finances, when you look at these options, then in this situation and in the light of the development that is taking place there. Kainuu has happened, this was a sensible decision. But just as clearly it is that, in some foreseeable period, the cash flow must be positive and the mining business profitable, because the long-term, of course, cannot be supported by the State. But now that the development has been so good, as the Prime Minister has said, and the alternative cost would still be
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u84	Mr Järvinen, last floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u85	Mr President! The Ruralia Institute has estimated that Talvivaara employs up to 2000 people, and it is clear that this is also a vital issue for the Kainuu region from the point of view of employment. When the other half of the truth is that the state has injected nearly EUR 1 billion into it, you can certainly talk about perhaps the most expensive employment project in this country. In practice, this means that, per one job, some EUR 400000 of state money has been spent. It would have been possible to do so by other means and at the same time the environment would have been spared without pollution. However, this is the path that has been taken. Now two questions. Minister Lindström, do you know any employment projects of the same scale as Winterfell, where money has been spent so much per job? And Mr Sipilä, you said that the funding will continue until mid-18, when it should be profitable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u86	Mr President! Even under the Green Government, the well has been supported, and it is made up of, more than one government, what has been done. When we get this company and the problem and the challenge into our hands, we will have to consider alternatives. In the other hand, there is an option of closure, the estimated cost of which moves between 250 million and 500 million, and in the other hand there is the question of whether or not it will be put right there and whether it will be cheaper and more socially sensible to move forward. We have come to the conclusion that things are available and that the speed we have been waiting for and required, and then this road, which we are going to take, is also the more sensible road in the long run from an environmental point of view. Decisions are always made with the facts and where we are.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u87	Mr President! I do not see this as just an employment project, but as a business project of this kind. We, as a government, have many times been in a situation where we have had to choose which direction we are going, knowing it, as the Prime Minister said it would cost, went in the direction A or went in the direction B. And yes, at least I have the big deal here — of course the environment is important, no one wants to ruin it — these jobs. As Mr Ihalainen said in his excellent speech and pointed out, this is such a big deal for Kainuu that where else to get so many jobs there. This means a lot to this government, but not on any terms, as Minister Orpo said.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u88	And one more question, Mr Kaikkonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u89	Mr President! Sometimes it seems that we in Finland are dominated by all kinds of pessimism — and not least by this Parliamentary Question Time. It is true that there is still too much unemployment in Finland and that not everyone is doing well, but there are more and more signs that Finland is finally turning towards a better direction. At present, the economy is growing and unemployment is falling. This week, for example, positive news has been received about investments in employment, both in Kemijärvi, Pietarsaari and New Town, where as many as a thousand new jobs are promised. This is the kind of news we need more. I ask the Prime Minister: how do you see the economic and employment situation in Finland at the moment, and what do you think the good news is telling us now?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u91	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 27/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. The chairman of the committee will first present the list of speakers: Mr Haatainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u92	Mr President! This is a Government proposal to amend Article 7 of the Child Benefits Act, which relates to the Government's savings decisions. According to the spending limits decision, there will be an equal reduction of 0.85% in benefits linked to the National Pensions Index and child allowances. In total, this will bring savings of 11.7 million for expenditure on child supplements. In connection with this Government's proposal, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health has also discussed Act 93/2016. The committee heard experts here, and the committee notes that this particular proposal does not have a very great impact, but these measures from the various cuts will then be cumulated with the families, and this can then, together, lead to a deterioration in the status of families with children. The Committee therefore considers it important that the child and family impact of the reforms carried out by the government in the various administrative sectors affecting the status of children and families with children be assessed, in accordance with the declarations previously adopted by Parliament, by means of separate reports, so that these synergies can then be fully known when these laws are adopted. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health proposes that Parliament adopt the bill contained in Government proposal 151/2016 without amendment and that bill 93/2016 be rejected. This was put to the vote. This bill was proposed to be rejected, but by majority decision this bill was adopted and the report therefore contains three objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u93	Mr President! Contrary to the Prime Minister’s earlier promises to cut child supplements by 0.91%, the government intends to achieve savings in public finances. In the short term, the cut will have a minor impact on disposable income on average, but in the longer term, the proposed reduction in the child benefit level, together with the removal of the indexational link of the child benefit from the beginning of 2016, will reduce the purchasing power of child supplements. According to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, the main current transfers for families with children, such as child benefit, parental allowance and home care allowance, have fallen short of the overall increase in prices and earnings. In about half of families with children below the poverty line, no one is employed. When most of the family's total income consists of various transfers, there is a high risk of poverty. Poverty in families with children should not be increased. According to the THL's Family Wellbeing 2014 survey, economic inequality is reflected in children's everyday life, especially as differences in consumption and operating opportunities. A family’s low income may result in discrimination against children, exclusion from the group, and bullying. The THL cohort study on children born in 87, up to the age of 21, who had received long-term income support from registration data shows that children had a low level of education, mental health problems, custody and small-scale crime. Similarly, there was an increase in the experience of income problems during the adult age. The circumstances of childhood thus have a significant impact on later well-being. The reduction of child benefit is expected to increase income support expenditure in the future. At the same time, the increase in income support dependency would raise the employment threshold for low-income families with children, as the subsidy will be cut out as income increases. Mr President! The index freezing and cuts in basic security reduce the priority of causal social security in relation to last resort social welfare income support. The reduction of the child benefit has a similar effect. The index freezes and cuts of basic security and housing allowance and the reduction of child benefit increase income support expenditure. In the longer term, the development will lead to a reduction in the importance of basic safety and housing support based on causes and to a corresponding increase in the role of means-tested and household-specific income support in income security and housing support. So, with this decision, we are taking the Finnish social security model increasingly in a need-tested direction. A major change of approach is therefore a matter of principle. Mr President! The livelihood of families with children must be considered as a whole. The Committee's expert consultation has pointed out that this is not a single austerity measure but that the cumulative effects of the development of child benefit should be assessed over a longer period of time. The real value of the child benefit has decreased since 94 and its relative level compared to the general income and salary level has decreased considerably more. The fact that the index was indexed in 2011 did not change the situation much when the index increases were frozen for the period 2013-2015. During the last term of the government, child benefit was reduced by 8%, but the surgery was compensated by a temporary tax deduction for families with low and medium incomes between 15 and 17, which will unfortunately be abolished in 2017. During this term of government, the indexation of child benefit has been completely abandoned, which is regrettable. It should be borne in mind that the original purpose of the child benefit was to compensate for income between families with children and households without children. Child allowance is a universal benefit paid to all families with children, which is not affected by their income. When the child benefit no longer follows either price or income trends, it would be necessary to assess how child benefit should be developed and whether the original purpose should be abandoned. We believe, as has been shown in the expert consultation, that such a change of principle should be subject to an open social debate and a political decision. Gradual gnawing of the child benefit without impact assessments is not an acceptable approach. We Social Democrats cannot accept unequal decisions on families with children. In addition to benefit cuts, these include doubling the maximum fees for early and early school pupils, limiting the right to early childhood education and increasing group sizes in early childhood education, as well as cuts in education for children and young people, and in particular funding for secondary vocational education. We believe that benefit and service cuts for families with children should not be carried out before a comprehensive assessment is carried out. We require the government to evaluate its policies on families with children as a whole, taking into account not only benefits and services but also measures to reconcile work and family. We're going to come forward with a proposal for a code of conduct.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u94	Mr President! These savings decisions are, of course, unpleasant, and they are neither easy nor comfortable to defend. The economy has been in a situation where savings have been made in many different places. This is a minor cut in child supplements, which means that, at the beginning of next year, the child allowance will be reduced by EUR 0 and 87 cents, or EUR 0.87 and, in the case of the fifth child, by just a few euros. But I personally welcome the fact that, even in a difficult situation, the government has taken the decision that this single parent increase, which is slightly less than EUR 50, has been excluded from this saving. I am absolutely convinced that these families will also need this child benefit most. Personally, I think we're gonna make it through these difficult years with this surgery for less than 90 cents. I would like to finish by thanking the government: at this same cutting point, 0.85% had also been proposed for cutting the front allowance, and I welcome the fact that in Parliament the government parties have decided not to make this cut. But, unfortunately, in child supplements, this little surgery now has to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u95	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the article on the size of the Child Welfare Act. So this is a savings law. The level of child supplements is now being cut in euros. In 1948, child benefit came into Finnish legislation according to the Nordic model. The original purpose of the child benefit was to equalise income between families with children and households without children. Child allowance is a universal benefit paid to all families with children, which is not affected by their income. Child allowances are a constant political issue. They have not been spared cuts in bad economic times. During the recession of the '90s, child benefits were cut into the clippings, and so did the Stubbi government. At that time, the Centre put a mid-term question on the government’s child supplement surgery, and now the government is cutting more child supplements in the centre-driven government. Mr President! In 2011, child benefits were indexed, but it was not a long-term joy when index increases were frozen for 2013 and 2015. During this term of government, the indexation of child benefit has been completely waived. This means that, as prices rise, child benefits will remain unchanged, thus providing less and less goods and services. This child supplemental surgery takes 0.91 per cent of the child supplement. In terms of money, it makes one child in the family less than EUR a month. As the size of the family grows, the euro-denominated impact increases so that the child benefits received by the family of five children will fall by a total of just over EUR 6 per month. Not so dramatic, then, but the problem lies in the long run. For a few years now, the overall impact is beginning to accumulate at a completely different pace. It is not an acceptable policy to gradually undermine child benefit without impact assessments. Mr President! The Left Alliance's parliamentary group cannot in any way accept this proposal from the Sipilä Government to cut the child supplement and cut the families with children, and we will vote in favour of the rejection motion by the SDP.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u96	Mr President! This package of child supplements is an important part of the Finnish social security system. We are spending some 1.4 billion on public funds, as I recall, to compensate for income differentials between family and familyless households. If we look at what has happened to the Finnish child allowance system in the last five years, I do not believe that it is a special honor to this political system as a whole, to any party. That is why I am surprised at what the Socialists and the Left have said. All parties have been involved in developments where, among other things, the indices of child benefit have made a very woozy policy: during Mari Kiviniemi's government, it was decided that child benefits would be indexed, then the next government ended up freezing them, this government decided to remove this link, and now we are going through a clear little drop in child allowances here. It should then be noted that the last government, under the leadership of the Assembly, also clearly performed a cut in the child's allowances. We are bound to be at the point where, given the importance of this transfer of income in the state budget, it does not make sense to continue indefinitely, but to look at the child allowance system as a whole. In principle, I regard it as an amount that can be sustained, which is now done as an operation for this, but of course I do not underestimate its impact, for example, in a family of many children on low incomes. I wouldn't let that happen. At the same time, however, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the focus of this government's child and family policy, the choice as an additional financial contribution, is also directed towards the service system of families with children, and if we look at the gap and polarisation that has taken place between families with children in Finland, it is also very central to the service system. That is why this government, as was heard during Question Time, decided to shift the focus of child protection and the whole range of services for families with children in a preventive direction, i.e. not to spend municipal funds and our common public funds endlessly on custody and hence also on extremely inhuman childhood stories, but to help families in time. I think it is quite essential that this package should be treated as a package. It is not only a question of the child benefit system and its income supplement, which is particularly relevant to the low incomes, but also of the service system and the necessary changes that are taking place there. If I really hope that the government will succeed somewhere, then in this change of focus, also because it is not an economic issue, nor is it a human issue, when we know the impact of childhood on human life. But as far as this child allowance system is concerned, I think it is essential, whenever the related legislative changes are discussed, to recall its history. After the wars, the welfare state construction project ended up creating a benefit that is universal and common to all regardless of income level. It has been sought to hold on to this even in difficult economic times, and only the last government was the first to make a clear cut to its level. Otherwise, we have discussed these indices, in which I criticised this short-term approach, which all the governments have fallen into. I think that the policy of families with children should be discussed as part of the service system, and then part of it comes through transfers, but we must see the whole and also the need for Finnish families, which is not only euro-denominated, but also about correcting the fragmentation of the service system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u97	Mr President! The original purpose of the child benefit was to equalise income between families with children and households without children. Child allowance is a universal benefit paid to all families with children, which is not affected by their income. When the child benefit no longer follows either price or income trends, it would be necessary to assess how the child benefit should be developed and whether the original purpose is to be abandoned or what is to be done about it in the future. The development of child benefit has not been fair to families with children, just as Mr Saarikko has just said and has reviewed its history. Last season, the government cut child benefit but at the same time it was made easier by tax reduction for families with children with low incomes in order not to suffer this cut in child benefit. If child benefits were still index-linked, as required by the law in force in 2012, in 2019 the child allowance for the first child would be approximately EUR 112 60 cent. However, according to the draft law now being decided, it would be EUR 94 88 cents. This represents a reduction of almost 16 % over this period to the real level of child supplements, since index adjustments are based only on the maintenance of the purchasing power of benefits. Mr President! I think I'll be in the front. [First Vice-PresidentMauri Pekkarinen : Representative,you may win if there is a little more to say,without any change. (Speaker moved to speaking rooster)
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u100	Mr President! In the case of child supplements, the total amount of surgery is EUR 11.7 million, although child allowances are no longer even categorically included in index-linked benefits. It is notable that the government is cutting child supplements in three different ways. The index increases in child supplements were abolished at the beginning of this year instead of a temporary freeze. It is estimated that the abolition of indexation will already cut child supplements by 4.1 per cent by 2019. The operation is strongly incompatible with the promise that child supplements will no longer be cut. The child benefits were indexed in 2011 and index increases were made in 11 and 12. Until now, and since then, no index increases have been made, resulting in a 30 % decrease in the real value of the child benefit since 1994. From the beginning of 2015, the amount of child benefit was cut by 8.1 per cent, which was compensated by the tax deduction on children. In a year's time, the government will also abolish the child allowance. And now, once again, the government is cutting off the child supplement. It is the most vulnerable people who are undergoing child replacement surgery. Especially in the everyday life of deprived families of children, child supplemental surgery is disproportionate. I cannot accept these cuts and have proposed that they be withdrawn. All in all, for Christian Democrats, the welfare of children and families with children has always been and will always be a priority, and that is why we propose that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u101	Mr President! In the short term, cuts in child supplements have a relatively small impact on the disposable income of families with children, but in the long term the impact will increase due, among other things, to the abolition of the indexation of child benefit. Poverty in children and families with children continues to grow, and I am afraid that we are repeating the mistakes we made in dealing with the recession of the 1990s. The same savings were made for children, families with children and their services, and according to THL’s studies, the consequences of their savings are still evident in this day. THL has studied that children who were then in poverty still have more mental health problems, long-term unemployment and exclusion, which means that the consequences will last for decades. Mr President! This week we are celebrating a week of children's rights, and the theme of the week is equality and inclusion. This decision, together with many similar decisions, increases inequality between families with children and reduces the opportunities for equal participation of children. Studies show that children of poor families cannot engage in the hobbies they want, do not participate in friends’ birthdays and are even more harassed. Mr President! Why has the government not carried out an assessment of the synergies in its decisions, even though it has repeatedly promised to do so? One law at a time when you're brought here doesn't tell the whole truth. It is high time that we had an overall picture of the situation, also evaluated by the government. At present, this information is produced by many experts, but the government has not listened to these experts. Investing in children should always be seen as an investment, never as an expense item. Finally, Mr President, just as Mr Kiljunen has just said, so last season there were also reductions in the child benefit, but there was also an overall assessment of the impact of children, and when this assessment came to light, it was decided to compensate for the loss of income from low-income families in the form of tax reductions. This is precisely the meaning of these overall impact assessments.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u102	Mr President! The representatives of the parties who are now opposed to this motion were all in the last parliamentary term to undertake the first cut in child supplements, which shows that this is a very difficult and difficult issue for all of us. None of us really want to start making cuts, but now that we are in this situation in the state economy, we can almost continue with the same arguments that were spoken during the last parliamentary term. Child benefits are a very important issue for the city centre, and they are certainly not something they want to be touched more than is seen to be absolutely necessary in this situation. What matters to us, however, is that child benefits belong to all families. When such cuts have to be made, however, the situation is that it is important for us that the situation of families with children be monitored and what things can be done to ensure that the situation of families with children is improved. In his speech just now, Mr Saarikko presented the plans for the centre, all of which we have ahead of us. What is essential here, however, is that efforts are being made to help families with children during this term of government with very strong and significant measures. Personally, I believe that the issue of custody, especially of children, is something that needs to be tackled very much, that these situations will not occur and that children will be able to stay at home as much as possible. Search for measures and opportunities to support children’s stay at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u103	Mr President! It is true, as many have said here, that this single surgery on child supplements is not very large at this point, but it is also true that when child supplementation is no longer linked to the index, the long-term trend is constantly decreasing. When we know that child allowances are particularly important for low-income families and they often receive other benefits, and when all of them have been indexed or indexed or deindexed, these are many of the same families, and the overall impact is significant for families' everyday lives and incomes. That is why, in fact, I am most concerned about the government's proposals on the deletion of indexation, the freezing of indexes, because they cause this long-term poverty. And we know that there are rarely good economic times when you can make such high-level increases that you can catch the hole that is caused by the removal of the index. Well, as has been said here, children's allowances have been touched before. It is, of course, such a large sum of central government finances as a whole that they have had to go to it, but it is good to remember that during the last period, when the cut was made, this was compensated by a tax deduction for those on low and medium incomes. I think that we need to make the overall impact assessments precisely because we are able to take account of the various tax reductions that can then be allocated to these low-income families, which are the ones that suffer the most.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u104	Mr President! It is, of course, regrettable that children's allowances should be touched on, as the government has now decided in its programme to carry out a considerable examination of all the benefits in order to restore the state and public finances, thereby raising employment and the economy, which is essential if we are to survive in the longer term. So this performance is a shame in itself. But there has been some recollection of the past here, and I remember from the mid-1990s when the then MP, Liisa Jaakonsaari, presented the so-called list of so-called "Liisa" with ten targets, including the taxing of child supplements. Well, when you were here too, Mr Kiljunen, and Mr Pekonen in particular, these old ones, then was Minister Huttu-Juntunen, a responsible minister of the Left Alliance, and I remember well when he almost weptly presented the huge cuts that were made after the recession when the Finnish economy was no longer in the model of having to take such decisions, and then he had to present them to Parliament. It was a sad time. Thus, during the last parliamentary term 27.3.2014, the previous government decided to cut child supplements quite substantially, ranging from 7 to 8 per cent, in its spending limits. Even now, the government is correcting the position of low incomes by reducing taxation in this respect, as has been the case here. And I will continue to say that those on good income also receive child supplements, and in that sense this problem, that is to say, surgery, is not limited to low incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u105	Mr President! As has been pointed out in this debate, a rather large cut was made on child allowances under the leadership of the Socialist Minister for Finance last year, and the KD party, or Christian Democrats, were also in the government at the time, and now, with a very strong word in this debate, it is believed that child allowances should not be touched by this government even by 87 cents. Under the leadership of the SDP, with the KD on the board and the Greens on the board, there was a much larger cut, and the Greens said that last season had to be done. That's what we're gonna do now. We're not better off at the moment. The legacy that this government had of the last period — the government in which we ourselves were — did not yet allow us to raise levels, not child allowances or many others. There has also been a need to reform and change student support, and it must also be remembered that, when the old ones have been remembered here, it was actually the case that the Left-wing Minister for Culture, who was responsible for the study aid, made, as far as I know, the first cut in history to study aid at the time. So, in these tough times, each party itself will have to shoulder the responsibility, and in that sense it would be desirable to have the same honesty, whether in the government or in the opposition. Perhaps a little can also point to this criticism of the centre, which, during the last period, raised an intermediate issue in a similar situation. So let's take a little longer to look at this whole thing. I personally believe, however, that unemployment is the biggest pain for many small families with children at the moment. And if we can get more employment here, we will have a much better chance of responding, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u106	Mr President! It is quite true that for several years we have treated families with children unfairly, as I have just said. And last season, we had a child supplemental surgery. But, as has already been said several times here, we then immediately carried out an impact assessment on children, which, under the leadership of the Social Democrats, under the leadership of the Minister of Finance, was compensated for by this cut for families with children on low incomes, and thus did not have the same effect on families with children, as is the case with these cuts, which this government is carrying out, they were not in the same proportions. And another thing. I have to say to Mr Heinos that, when Mr Heinonen was certainly also involved in the discussions when this plan for child allowance was being drawn up in various political parties, the assembly had a much greater need for child benefit than what was ultimately decided on, to a good EUR 100 million. And that level of surgery was then determined in accordance with the Socialist proposal. But child benefit surgery is always a painful operation, as has been said here. Then it must also be said that last time, under the leadership of the Social Democrats, a development programme for child protection was put in place, with 54 proposals for measures already mentioned today, as well as a very important reform of the Social Welfare Act, which specifically strengthened the preventive services of families with children and also the services to be taken home.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u107	Mr President! I really wonder the argument that if the last period was operated on, it should justify further cutting now. I do not quite understand this logic in this regard, because should we not then wake up if it is cut off that no more cuts are being made from those who most need these child supplements? If we look back on the discussions that have taken place last year and last year in this Chamber, I remember in particular Mr Sipilä's comment at the time, precisely in the context of the debate on the mid-term question presented by the centre, in which he said very emphatically that child benefit must never be cut off, under any circumstances, because we must not repeat the mistakes of the last recession. This probably wasn't quite a straightforward quote, but in any case, his message here was like this. Now we are repeating these same mistakes. My question is, shouldn't we learn from the past? I therefore hope that, at this stage, the government will carry out an assessment of the overall impact of proposals on families with children and will dare to make a correction if it clearly shows that poverty in families with children is increasing. This was done during the last term of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u108	Mr President! As bad as this cut is, I would still like to correct the argument often made about the opposition that the most vulnerable people in particular should be cut off. This is not the case, for example, because the single parent increase is excluded from surgery and there is no government intervention on income support, and I do not want it to be. Therefore, the most vulnerable are taken care of, as is definitely the case. It is truly sad that the previous government was not able to make the necessary changes to the state economy and the future of our economy, but allowed debt development and unemployment to explode. Now we are in a very bad position to have to take these adjustments. The opposition is saying that poverty in families with children should not be allowed to happen, and I fully agree with that. Everything must be done to ensure that poverty does not increase. However, the only real solution is to increase employment and create jobs, because we cannot live through transfers of income indefinitely. I do not understand why the state's economic development has been allowed into this state over the last decade, that these painful cuts have to be made to the welfare state. Fortunately, as mentioned, this monthly cut in the child allowance of around the euro per child is not the same for the poorest or single parents.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u109	Mr President! One of the most important things about this government program is that we must not accept debt to our children. All these austerity measures, which have been brought up in different areas and what we have to do, are based on the fact that we need to put a stop to government debt, because every euro that we owe must be paid by our children. What we are going to do now is to get this into a situation where our children will have the opportunity to live here in our country in the future, and what we are doing with these measures, in addition to the government programme, is essential that efforts are now being made to improve the position of the low-income, but, above all, we are doing everything in our power to get jobs for society as a whole. Today we received good news about how large employment packages have been mobilised across Finland. We need to get more of these measures and invest in getting work and help for families with children, and then we would also have tax revenue, which would allow us to guarantee other services for families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u110	Mr President! As Mr Heinonen said and everyone knows, the Christian Democrats have been in the government during the last period when child supplements have been cut, but as has already been said here, they have also been compensated for by the tax reduction on child allowances at the time. But what I think is important to see is that the real value of child supplements has fallen by about 20 per cent in about 20 years, and when the real value has already fallen so much, and yet when it has been cut in the previous periods, I think it would be wise to see both backwards and forward, that when you have already cut that much and when the real value has fallen so much, then no more cuts. Poverty in families with children is the everyday life of the so-called welfare state of Finland. We have a lot of poor families with children, and I would particularly say that students, young students, to whom the increase in the family has taken place — and as we know, it would be good to have children in Finland as well at an earlier stage, and students, families to whom there is a family increase are very, very tight, perhaps the poorest in Finland today. However, in their alternative budget, the Christian Democrats have provided a guardian's allowance so that all students with dependents can receive EUR 200 per month. I hope that this type of compensation proposal will be taken into account by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u111	Mr President! Representative Maijala there spoke beautifully that we should not take debt to our children and that is why we must make these drastic cuts. But I would like to remind you once again that these cuts that the government is doing now are creating a welfare debt for our children, and that debt is much more difficult to repay than the financial debt that may now be left of them. I consider this to be a very inhumane trend that we are cutting off children, families with children, the weakest of all, and those who cannot defend themselves. Mr President! I would also like to make it clear that there would be no misinformation in Parliament's discussion papers, that the former Minister, who worked last season, Arhinmäki did not make any kind of cut to student support, on the contrary: at the time of Minister Arhinmäki the student support was tied to the index. It was one of the great achievements of Minister Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u112	Mr President! I understand that Mr Pekonen referred to Mr Heinonen, who is now in the vote: I did not speak of Minister Arhinmäki, I did not say Minister Arhinmäki, but said Minister responsible for study aid for the Left Alliance, and he was Minister Andersson, who, after decades as the first minister, made a major cut in student support. I didn't blame Secretary Arhinmäki for the operation. After all, in his day these index ties were made, as pointed out here. There is a difference of opinion about them — was this state able to afford them even then? — but I wanted to correct this now, that is to say the Minister and the Member of Parliament, Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u113	Mr President! Indeed, the first government of Lipponen at the time, between 95 and 99, almost as such implemented the famous list of Liisa, which was prepared by the representative of Jaakonsaari, and it was a cold ride for all the poor, and then the Left Alliance was implementing it with the socialists, under the leadership of the Social Democrats. At that time the child benefits were also in the picture, albeit in the form of taxation, and then all the other nine other benefits from the poor were weakened. The right of the unemployed, among other things, to a small monthly income was then abolished because of you — fortunately, it has now been restored, the EUR 300, it is valuable for many families with low income. But here we are dealing with this decision, and this is indeed regrettable that this kind of surgery, which is actually extremely small, is about to be carried out on child supplements. For example, it was extremely small compared to the fact that in the last period of 27 March 2014 — when the Left Alliance was still in the government — you were prepared to cut child supplements much more drastically. That's the kind of message you sent. You corrected when the pressure arose, or you withdrew your decisions, as the current government has been criticised. The current government makes a huge number of decisions and some of them are withdrawn, but you did very little when you did nothing, but then you withdrew or corrected this. Mr President! However, I think it is very important that, now that the economy has clearly started to grow and employment is improving and so on, the position of families with children and families with children with limited means is first addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u114	Mr President! In fact, I am replying to Mr Mäkelä: there has been a systematic policy here throughout this term of government to justify the government's primary social security cuts by allowing people to apply for income support or to compensate for it by means of income support. This is in some way a completely new phenomenon that has come during this reign, while in the last term our aim was to strengthen the priority benefits to the level that people would not have to rely on income support. The aim must be that people's primary income consists of work and possibly a different social security, and this social security must be at a level that people do not have to rely on income support. We know that income support is very sensitive to poverty and dependency, and also to this permanent social security, and that is why I think it is absolutely essential that, above all, as has been said here, we try to strengthen employment, but also to strengthen the priority benefits to such a level that people do not have to rely on income support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u115	Mr President! I now have to answer when Mr Kiljunen's speech was so thoroughly confusing. In my opinion, it is clear that the SDP is opposed to every surgery, to the spending adjustment that comes into this hall, but it is new to me if the SDP has something against me defending those people who depend on income support. I find that very strange.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u116	Mr President! I would like to say once again that this single child supplementation does not cause disaster in any family in the short term, but this abolition of indexation and the implementation of these other parallel cuts will lead to an increase in child-family poverty in our society. And when we talk about the future, we should also see to it that we do not impose this welfare debt, as Mr Pekonen has just mentioned, specifically on the next generation. These many savings on children and families with children will be, probably, very expensive in the future for this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u117	Mr President! This welfare debt, this matter, I do not sign at all, for this government is trying to do everything in its power to improve the position of families with children all the time. And how it improves, above all so that families with children get work, work, work, and income in different ways, and so the position of families with children as a whole would be improved. One thing is, then, these forms of housing allowance. They have been developed in such a way that families with children would be better off, and also so that students would be supported in such a way that, if they were to have children, their position would be such that they would be able to move forward. Now, while Mrs Kiljunen was talking about this income support, would it be a priority: It is certainly not, but we are trying to ensure that the priority is always that people try to get a job and try to help them get a job. And if that work is not available, then they will be supported so that no one falls from this society. So we are by no means creating a welfare debt through these measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u118	Mr President! After the elections in the United States and after Brexit, concerns have been expressed in Finland as to whether or not there is a transition to the post-truth and fact. This concern has been expressed, among other things, by Prime Minister Juha Sipilä in his column. Mr President! Unfortunately, it seems to be moving on, and this is done by representatives of the parties in the government of Prime Minister Sipilä. I would like to correct a few of the totally unfounded arguments that have been made here. First of all, it has been suggested here that the Left-wing Alliance cut student aid when I was the minister responsible for study aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u122	Mr President! It would certainly be reasonable for Mr Arhinmäki to be at the workplace and to take part in this debate and to know what we are talking about here. He gives a completely wrong impression of this conversation. This can be checked in the parliamentary minutes. There has been no claim here that the student allowance has been cut during Mr Arhinmäki's time. I myself said that, during the time of the left-wing minister, there was a cut in student aid. This is the truth. In 1995, the minister responsible for study aid was left-wing Claes Andersson. He was the first to sign the decision to cut the student allowance, and this is what I have referred to — you can also ask the chairman of your group, Mr Pekos, who was here at the workplace and took part in this debate. In this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u123	Mr President! I did not claim that Mr Arhinmäki was a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u128	Mr Andersson, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u129	Mr President! First of all, Mr Kankaanniemi, you admitted that you were talking nonsense when you argued that we had been cutting child supplements. As you yourself said, this was one of the main reasons why we left the government. Surely no one can be responsible for a decision that is not acceptable and that is why the Prime Minister is showing the door. Politics must be honest in such a way that it does not imply something that is not true. Mr President! Mr Heinonen, everyone who listened to you thought that you were referring to the minister responsible for the last left-wing union study aid. Maybe you're a trumpeted-up worder who deliberately insinuates people to get it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u130	All right, and now we're going to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u131	Mr President! Here we are now learning from history when we go through this in detail, but instead I would like to learn from history and learn from the cuts made to basic security during the recession of the 1990s, how they have affected and are still visible to those children of that age in the way in which their life path and success have been determined very far by the cuts in the recession, and we are talking about these children of the Depression who still have to live very poorly today, and they are not necessarily employed. It is now important that we learn from these mistakes, and that is why we should be concerned, not only with this child benefit, but more generally, that this basic safety cut should not be done. This is where the welfare debt came up, which is now being created. It would therefore be particularly important for these various proposals to be subject to these impact assessments. When they come here one by one and unfortunately in the presentations the government has not carried out very comprehensive impact assessments, it really does happen that many cuts are made to the same persons. I very much hope that these impact assessments will be carried out and then you will correct, government, these decisions if it seems that there will be an excessive cut for certain people. I would also like to thank Mr Kiljunen for reminding me that income support is a last resort, intended for a temporary period, and therefore these cuts cannot be justified by the fact that there is income support, please use it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u132	Mr President! It is really good to note that the members of the government party have a conscience after all, and it is also very good to note that ministers also seem to have a conscience. They very often justify the cuts that are now being made, because 'we are doing it because we have done it before'. If there are no grounds for surgery, then you have to get criteria that can't take anything. I am surprised that if the poor people have been cut earlier, this government will have to cut even more. Why? Perhaps because there are many poor people. We have one million poor people, and if you take EUR 5 from every poor person, that is EUR 5 million. There are many more poor people than the rich. If you take 5 euros from the rich, only a few hundred thousand — really rich — come from them, there are few. Of course, this is how it's gonna be, but it's too bad. In my opinion, it is not worth looking back anyway. It is worth looking forward and rebuilding this world. So that I don't speak against myself very much, I'm not looking back right now. I'm going to say a few words about history. The beginning of the child benefit is that after the wars, child benefits came to compensate for the income differentials between childless families and childless families. The families were large, and in many families the provider had been left on the front and needed bread for the children, needed warmth and clothing for the children. That's when they narrowed the income gap. However, the development has gone to the point where today child benefits increase income inequalities, and precisely because we have income support, which is the last form of social security, and the income support is such that it does not tolerate any other form of income for the family, not even child benefits, but that child benefits cut income support by their amount. Increases in income support do not compensate for it. This is because, ultimately, children support their parents, and it is incomprehensible — at the same time as Jyrki Katainen, for example, when he was Prime Minister, said that 'in fact, our family would not need child supplements at all, we would be able to do without them'. And today the child’s allowances are indeed divided so that in poorer families they go home with potatoes and minced meat and tomatoes and cucumbers and, of course, clothes for children. In richer families, child allowances are placed on the child’s account and received by the child when he or she is 18 years old. This is the bitter truth. There's no way out of it. That is why I would like to ask: either now is the time to consider whether child supplementation could be made a means-tested exercise.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u135	Mr President! Mr Tolppanen put forward interesting ideas, probably of a social democratic nature. Mr President! This welfare debt is an interesting question. I do not know what it is, what its value is — a serious matter in itself. But we know that when the previous term of government ended, we had almost 40 billion more public debt than at its beginning — in 15 years compared to the end of 2010. Almost $40 billion in debt. In four years, the number of unemployed persons had increased by over 100,000, GDP fell in 2012, 13 and 14, competitiveness was rather low and so on. So we had a real debt and economic crisis going on. Now we've got it fixed. And it has been corrected by the fact that public expenditure has been addressed, employment and other growth packages have been made and then the kiky agreement has been corrected, and then there has been
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u136	Let's take a short debut on this child supplement. Representative Maijala and then Congressman Tolppanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u137	Mr President! In this Parliament, we have been talking for a very long time about whether child benefits belong to everyone. Simply: child benefit belongs to everyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u138	Mr President! I see that Mr Kankaanniemi has not looked at Parliament's website and has not listened to Parliament's speeches during the last period when he himself was not here. My opinion was exactly the same last season, and this opinion is my personal opinion. I have always felt that child benefits could be necessary and that more for those who need more. But this has nothing to do with what is a socialist position, and it had nothing to do with what was the position of the Finns. True, even this season the position of the people of Peru is very good: they are very happy to forget that there is a poor people and that the poor people need something more. Last season it was still a bit involved, but this season it will be a cold wind from the north, so that it will feel as far as the bones and the kernels.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u139	Mr Kankaanniemi and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u140	Mr President! The Finns of Peru have not forgotten the poor, but the basis for us to deal with this country's affairs is that there is a change in Finland, which is reflected in the strengthening of business life and in the improvement of employment, and that is how we get more tax revenue and social security contributions. That is the only way, Mr Left. Through socialism we will not get this country to rise, but by doing what the government is doing: by putting public finances in order, by improving business and working life issues and by making major structural reforms. None of these things you managed to do last season. Now they are moving forward, and we see the results of this policy in New Town, Pietarsaari, Kemijärvi, Jyväskylä, Äänekoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u141	Mr President! In that general political opening, Mr Arhinmäki raised this post-truth period in such an interesting way, so that I too would like to say a few words about it. I believe that the opposition parties in this country have been in this country for the entire period of government in that period of time after the truth. The knowledge of the economic situation in our country has been available to all opposition parties, but its alienation has almost become a virtue. You can see it in these shadow budgets. All cuts are opposed, and there is the Sitra that is funded by breaking the piggy bank. However, I believe that the biggest blind spot in this post-truth policy of the opposition is immigration, without which we would not have to discuss these savings so much. It's gonna cost us a billion dollars this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u143	All right, we'll continue the conversation about the child supplement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u144	Mr President! That is where I tried to get a reply after Mr Arhinmäki's speech, and so much I would like to say now that the Minutes do not leave the wrong impression: Before I gave my speech, I made sure that Mr Pekos, the group chairman of the Left Alliance, was ready to leave your government. I did not mention the Left Alliance with regard to the savings in financial aid for the last period — all of which can be guaranteed by the Minutes — I mentioned the Christian Democrats, I mentioned the Greens, the Social Democrats, but not the Left Alliance. Nor did I mention Minister Arhinmäki when I talked about cutting the student allowance and told him that after decades it was first cut by a left-wing minister, and that was what happened. This is a fact, and I find it offensive if Mr Arhinmäki referred to me with these words that I have spoken the truth that has been changed here. That is not the case, because, after decades in 1995, Minister Claes Andersson cut student aid for the first time. This is a fact, and I wanted to make it clear to the Minutes that there is no picture that I have spoken the truth that has been changed here. I hope that Mr Arhinmäki will also correct his remarks in that regard. If he referred to Mr Kankaanniemi in his Trump speeches, then Kangasniemi already corrected his own speeches, but I have no need to correct my speeches, for I spoke as it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u145	Mr President! Admittedly, the government proposal before us is suddenly worryingly looking when child supplements are cut down slightly. However, in view of the current economic situation and the fact that child supplements will still be paid EUR 1360 million next year, the fall of around EUR 10 million from that total figure will probably be more than the fact that there is talk of a real big problem. It is true that every euro that is taken away from the less well-off and weaker people is too much, but it must also be remembered that if we do not take responsibility for the state economy, for the common public finances, then the end result will be one where we will no longer be asked where you will cut off, what you will do. Since then, we will be in the position of the auction boy, so I would like the opposition to have a slightly more constructive approach when the state finances are being set up. We clearly have, as we heard in Question Time today, and we have been receiving information throughout the last two months, that the state finances have gradually turned to the right, growing, more sustainable basis. Jobs have begun to be created. The biggest problem facing families with children in our society is unemployment. That is the real tragedy, Mr President, what is going on in this country. The child benefits came to Finland after the war, and in 1948 the child supplements were officially paid. This has always been a benefit paid specifically to families with children and has been intended to support the economic situation of families with children. In other words, the intention is very good and worthy of support, and that is what this must be regarded as. I cannot understand the speeches that we should go to a situation where, on a income-based basis, some families would have their child benefits removed and then they would start to think about how to do this. It would go to a merry-go-round where there's no end. It's a terrible social debate. We have to do this as we have done so far, that through progressive income tax this is evened out: those who have more are taken away, those with less, of course, are taxed less. Here's the deal. Someone then said how about capital income, whether they should be taxed progressively. I warn against such thinking, because that would lead to the flight of capital from the country, here will be the loss of jobs. Those jobs are not going anywhere, they are simply moving to countries where there are better conditions in this regard. This kind of light talk about throwing billions of dollars in there or here without seeing the whole thing and seeing how things really are in this country, I find it rather strange. I would like to see a little heart-to-heart voice on this issue and also see that things are very good in Finland. Mr Tolppanen mentioned in his speech that we should look ahead and change this world for the better. I am very much in favour of this, and that is what is happening here. The real remedy for families with children and people with low incomes is to put the state finances in order. Well-being government finances are always the best friends of the poor. Then the state will be able, society will be able to fulfil its obligations, make its payments, and also to provide fully the social benefits that people deserve. Talks about this being malicious in doing something absurd, I think it is ill-advised. I can't find any excuse for them, no matter how hard I try to find them. In other words, Mr President, I hope that this tax-compensated amount of income, which people in Finland pay taxes on wages, this compensation, will be maintained and ensured that all the weaker people will receive their fair share of the support of society and that unemployment will be brought under control in this country. It costs EUR 5 billion. At the moment, Finland is on the watch list of the European Commission that our public finances are not sustainable. There are clear doubts about that. Even more worrying information is, of course, if these international rating agencies consider our economy to be in poor shape, and this will immediately lead to an increase in interest rates. With simple papermatism, calculate how much a debt of EUR 105 billion will cost you an increase in the unit of interest and remove what it will remove from the Finnish state budget. Child allowances will amount to EUR 1360 million next year. A percentage increase in interest rates is about eating the entire child supplement out of a single cap. That when you get up here and talk about $11 million, just think about it for a second. Otherwise, it would be good for all of us to know: guess your own condition, give value to another.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u146	Mr President! In this statement of reasons for its rejection, the opposition has said that no assessments have been made — and I have not heard any other arguments — but that the assessments should be carried out — but the Committee on Social Affairs and Health in this report has written in the following way: “The Government Programme has committed itself to introducing an assessment of the impact of decisions on children and the family.” We agree with this, but when this report then reads: 'The Committee welcomes the fact that the proposal has assessed the impact of the cut on disposable income, the risk of poverty, purchasing power and the need for income support for families of different sizes of children.' Have you noticed that this has already been done here? In addition, it says here that "the estimates show that the impact of the proposed reduction in child supplements on the low income rate of families with children and relative income formation will be very limited and that the income gap between families with children will increase very little".
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u147	Mr President! I would like to remind Mr Mäkelä that the cuts that the government is doing have nothing to do with immigration. In particular, when you were working on a government programme, there was controversy as to whether the asylum quota was 750 or 1050. This was the issue of immigration in government programme negotiations. But at the same time, you decided to operate on unemployed people, pensioners, sick people, families with children and students. These decisions were made before these asylum seekers began to come to Finland. So be honest about this. I understand that at some market in Lappeenranta these explanations can still be bit by some group, but in fact they have nothing to do with these government cuts. Mr President! Mr Heinonen, it is good that it has now become clear that Mr Heinonen did not refer to me in his speech. Why did I intervene so strongly? Because it was so widely interpreted, which I understand, of course, if you refer to the decision taken 31 years ago and you speak of a left-wing minister and, at the same time, there was a left-wing minister in the previous government who was responsible for the study aid. In 95 I myself was a fresh student, but if we remember that time, then the student support system had not been in force for decades, but the current student support system was introduced, I think, in 92 C.E.,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u152	Mr President! We are talking here about the surgery of child supplements and we are now taking on a glutton debt to finance, among other things, child supplements and these. If you take debt as much as the left is suggesting that you have to take debt, full of eyes and mouths, it is a real cut in child supplements when you put debt on children. I wouldn't dare do that. How does the Left plan to finance this, other than debt? We need to put the economy in order, as Mr Hoskonen has said there, and it will be done in such a way as to make business work. But it does not come with those envy taxes or socializing. Now we're in a free, mobile world. Capital leaves this country when it comes to taxing and socialising and talking about the rich. As wrong as it may be, this is just a practice. We have to get the economic system in this country in such a way that investments are coming here, and they are not going to be in the middle of taxation or in the middle of socialism. This will also enable us to finance these child supplements and what is in the public domain. This is the a and o. It's the comrade populism of going to the corner of the market to talk that there's the rich one and he's got it and he's eating you. The more rich we have in this country, the more money we have in this country. The poor, like me, is a poor financier. It's not so good when it's empty.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u153	Mr President! Representative Arhinmäki pointed out that the government programme includes unfortunate benefit cuts. It is exceptionally easy to agree on this point. Even when the government programme was being drawn up, the country’s financial situation was so serious that such a list had to be drawn up — it had no choice. However, I disagree with Mr Arhinmäki that immigration costs and child allowances have nothing to do with each other. Already in 2014, reception activities alone cost 61.9 million. That's a completely different amount from what we're talking about here. One decision cost about 1500 euros, one asylum decision. So it's about canceling 1500 child replacement surgery per decision.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u154	Mr President! Small — or important — detail. The government of Prime Minister Aho, in which I myself was a minister, actually carried out this reform of student support: an excellent reform in the midst of the most difficult time of recession at the time. It was a lot of praise from the students. Of course, there were such flaws that later have been corrected. On the other hand, Aho's government did not cut child supplements, but cut child supplements after Aho's government by Lipponen's government, which included not only the socialists but also the Left Alliance and the Greens. This happened at the time, and it must be remembered that it was not during the recession when child supplements were being cut, but after the recession when you drove Finland into what you called EMU, the euro. Today, when we are in this situation that debt is still a huge problem, even though the municipalities are not currently in debt, but the state is still in debt, for example, because of a billion immigration costs, we have to ask the left, both left-wing parties, what you would say to the EU Commission when it is asking Finland, even now after these cuts, to explain how Finland intends to cope with this economic distress. What would you say when you are opposed to all cuts, you are opposed to all reforms and you would distribute money to all kinds of things to the ends of the world? Yes, this is a serious question enough for me to expect a clear response from the left. What your response would be to the EU Commission in this respect, given that it is already
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u155	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 26/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u156	Mr President! The Board of Directors' proposal for legislation on indexation revisions of national pensions and certain other benefits for 2017 and amending the articles of the National Pensions Index Act and the Act on income support is discussed. The committee has consulted experts. After all, this proposal proposes: In accordance with this draft law, the national pension index would be frozen to this year’s, 2016 level by way of derogation from the permanent legislation and, in addition, the national pension index would be reduced by 0.85%. This would therefore apply to national pensions, guarantee pension and benefits that are adjusted in accordance with the national pension index. These benefits include disability benefits, front benefits, basic unemployment allowance under the Unemployment Protection Act, labour market support and child increase. This would also apply to the annual limits of liability for reimbursement of medicinal products. This proposal also includes an amendment to the Act on Income Support, which provides that the increase in the basic amount of income support ensures that the level of the basic element of income support is increased in accordance with the level increase laid down by the permanent legislation, i.e. the reduction would not apply to it. The committee notes that, according to this permanent legislation, pensions and other benefits linked to the National Pensions Index should be increased by 0.5% in 2017, i.e. next year, according to a revised calculation during the committee reading. This proposal is expected to reduce pension and other benefit expenditure by a total of EUR 77.5 million in 2017 compared to the increase in permanent legislation. However, the impact on public finances is greater than this. The freezing of the National Pensions Index and the reduction of national pensions also affect the taxation of pensions, since the full amounts of both central and municipal tax deductions are linked to the amount of national pensions. The income threshold, after which the pensioner has to pay income tax, is therefore reduced. As a whole, it has been estimated that tax revenue will increase by EUR 30 million as a result of this proposal. This index reduction also applies to the basic element of income support. However, the Committee feels it is good for the government to propose that the basic element of income support provided for by the law should therefore be increased. The committee accepts this index freeze and discount, but the overall social security system is considered problematic if the priority of basic safety based on reason is constantly weakened in relation to last resort and means-tested income support. Deteriorations contribute to strengthening the increased and prolonged dependency of low-income people on income support, which easily deepens incentives traps and prevents employment. The committee also proposes that this government proposal be amended so that the front supplement, the extra front supplement and the veteran supplement are excluded from this 0.85% index reduction in order to protect the benefits of our war veterans. The detailed explanatory memorandum therefore states that the committee is proposing amendments to the section, i.e. Article 1 of the draft law. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure incurred by the Commission in connection with the implementation of the budget of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD): There will be around 8,500 of these extra front recipients, and around 300 amendments will be made in 2017. This bill was put to the vote when this government proposal was discussed, but the government proposal and these amended proposals were adopted. Therefore, the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health is that the Parliament, as amended to the Government proposal 149/2016, is included with the amendments of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. This proposal also contains two objections. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u157	Mr President! In 2017, the Government will also continue its cold cutting line, which is the hardest targeted at the daily livelihoods of the most low-income people. The government plans to cut the National Pensions Index by 0.85% and freeze the index at this year's level in order to achieve savings in public finances. The operation is therefore targeted at the smallest benefits linked to the national pension index. As early as this year, the government allowed the level of benefits to fall by about 0.4% as the national pension index went down. In addition, the index will be frozen at this lower level for 2017-2019. Changes are widely reflected in the lives of low incomes. The index freeze applies not only to the level of benefits to be granted, but also to many other euro amounts and income limits linked to the KEL index in the definition of benefits. The index freeze and the reduction in the national pension index have a permanent cumulative impact on the level of benefits, as the change in the index is not to be compensated for later. Price developments in line with projections in the coming years mean that the total normal index increases from 2016 to 2019 would be around 2.8 per cent. The proposed reduction of 0,85 % therefore represents a reduction of around 3,5 % compared to the normal trend forecast. The proposed index reduction would reduce the basic allowance for labour market support by good EUR 6 per month in 2017. The difference in the indexation according to the permanent legislation would be estimated at around EUR 9 for the basic daily allowance. For national pension, the reduction would be EUR 5.45 per month and the difference between the index increase under permanent legislation would be EUR 8.17. The level of social security benefits to be cut is already low. The Social Rights Committee of the Council of Europe has already pointed out that Finland is too low a minimum level of social security. The cuts now proposed further undermine the minimum level of social protection. The combined effects of surgery are significant in households receiving multiple benefits. According to the calculations, income differentials are increasing and the poverty rate is increasing. The impact of these cuts on the most low income households is mitigated by the fact that the index cut does not concern the basic component of income support. On the other hand, it is obvious that cuts will increase and in many cases prolong the dependency of low-income households on income support. This may exacerbate the incentive problems associated with income-related benefits. The index freezing and cutting of basic security reduces the priority of causal social security in relation to last resort social welfare income support. The index freezes and cuts of basic security and housing allowance and the reduction of child benefit increase income support expenditure. In the longer term, the development will lead to a reduction in the importance of basic safety and housing support based on causes and to a corresponding increase in the role of means-tested and household-specific income support in income security and housing support. It should be noted that, once again, the task of impact assessment is essentially the knowledge service of the opposition, research institutions, NGOs and Parliament. In the Government's proposal, the impact assessment of people's daily livelihoods has not been carried out in practice. The national pension index must monitor price developments. We expect the government to cancel an excessive cut to the lowest benefits. The index increase that protects purchasing power returns directly to consumption and ensures the well-being of everyday life. On these grounds, we do not accept the government's proposal and we will be presenting at second reading the rejection of this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u158	Mr President! In the draft budget, the Government implements its 0.85% cut in all index-linked benefits in the spring spending limits decision. In other words, it is proposed to introduce a law on index checks for national pension and certain other benefits in 2017 whereby the national pension index would be permanently frozen at the level of 2016 by way of derogation from the legislation and, in addition, the national pension index would be reduced by 0.85%. According to the proposal, the change would apply, as has already been stated, to national pensions, guarantee pensions and other benefits that are adjusted on the basis of the national pension index or otherwise linked to the amount of national pension. Such other benefits include disability benefits, basic unemployment allowance under the Unemployment Security Act, labour market support and child increase. The change would also apply to the basis for determining benefits linked to the National Pensions Index and to the amounts of money, such as the limit on the annual own contribution of reimbursements of medicinal products. It should be noted that the measures proposed by the government target people who are already disadvantaged in society. In addition to this, the government is also targeting many other cutting measures for the same group of people, and I believe that the combined effect of the various measures will result in an unreasonable and humane end result. I cannot accept these measures put forward by the government and have tabled an objection to the proposal and propose that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u159	Motions for rejection will then come at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u160	Mr President! This bill also undermines the daily livelihood of the most low-income people and increases pensioner poverty, for example. Particularly worrying is the fact that index freezing and the reduction in the national pension index have a permanent cumulative impact on the level of benefits, as the change in the index is not to be compensated for at a later stage. The level of social security benefits to be cut is already low, and the Social Rights Committee of the Council of Europe has already pointed out that Finland is too low a minimum level of social security. Now these cuts continue to undermine this minimum level of social security. These cumulative effects of cuts are significant, especially in households receiving several different benefits. These decisions will increase the income gap and the poverty rate will continue to increase. On the other hand, it is also evident that these cuts increase and in many cases prolong the dependency of low income households on income support. Already at the moment, many pensioners tell us that they have to choose between food and medicine. These are the kind of messages and contacts I get almost weekly, and then when I tell these people that they are entitled to income support, they usually answer me that I am not going to apply for income support, because it is so humiliating. They prefer to compromise on their own nutrition or, alternatively, on medications. One might ask how the government can treat people who have built Finland with their work in this way. I don't think a small increase in the guarantee pension will warm these people's minds. With regard to this bill, too, as the protests of the demars, the Greens and the Left have also said, the impact assessment has not yet been carried out again. These impact assessments can be found — research institutes, NGOs and Parliament’s Information Service, among others, have shown that this bill is also discriminatory and poverty-enhancing — but the government continues to fail to assess the impact of its legislative proposals. It is particularly worrying, as has been pointed out in the discussion on child supplementation, that the government does not at all assess the combined effects of different laws, and it causes these cumulative consequences and the fact that the same savings always, again and again affect the same people and families.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u161	Mr President! These cuts are indeed directed at the most vulnerable, the most low-income people, as has already been said by Mr Kiljunen and Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen. I have to be a little surprised at the values of this government. In this Chamber, it is repeated how difficult it is to cut there and here, just as in the previous case when child supplements were cut, but at the same time the same government is making tax cuts, which are the main beneficiaries of those with the highest income. This proposal, which is now before us, applies to all benefits linked to the National Pensions Index. In addition to the child increase in national pensions, survivors' pensions and national pensions, the surgery is aimed at, among other things, disability benefits, basic unemployment allowance, labour market support, sickness allowance, parental allowance and special care allowance, rehabilitation and rehabilitation allowance, home care and private care allowance, as well as partial care allowance and flexible care allowance. Mr President! I am particularly sorry that the government does not carry out an impact assessment of its proposals. In my opinion, it is an absolutely intolerable policy to make proposals, to put them into effect and then to see what comes of them. President! The Left Alliance Parliamentary Group cannot accept this government proposal and will support the motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u162	Mr President! The Government's proposal on the indexation of national pension and other benefits for 2017 is of course part of the government's chosen line. There's nothing to comment on. There is a policy that must be chosen and public finances must be reformed. When Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, as well as Mr Pekonen, has called for these impact assessments, it is true that the government has done them in quantitative terms, and the committee is also taking a position on this amount of cut, saying: 'In view of the increase in the basic element of income support, almost all households have a euro-denominated loss of income from indexation on an annual basis of less than EUR 100 and about 40% of the change in income is no more than EUR 10 in their direction. The loss of more than EUR 100 is caused by 2 % of households. This means that the income-sharing effects of the proposal are very limited." Quite a direct quote from the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health. In other words, this issue has been considered so that do the representatives of the opposition mean that 200 new posts would be created to make different assessments? The idea that this bureaucracy should be increased in this economic situation and in general in order to stiffen the economy is not of this world, so I would like the opposition to live in this time as well. Why, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, do you not come to the idea that at the moment there is a publishing machine running in Finland that this nation can no longer afford? And it is precisely based on the housing of these large cities and the publishing machine created in that environment. Housing allowance is paid from next year's budget for nearly EUR 2 billion and income support for approximately EUR 850 million, of which, according to civilized estimates, half goes to housing costs. In other words, we have created a huge cost machine with this huge amount of concentration, which is huge compared to these index cuts. These index cuts are in the midst of a huge storm of mosquitoes compared to the distress, pain and poverty this huge increase in housing costs in this country causes. And, of course, there's another side to the medal. In my own country or municipality of origin, when trying to get a job in a forest or in a field, the complainers of the Green League are the first ones there to make false complaints so that this cannot be done and this must not be done and must not be done. Many young families lose their jobs, many children lose their way to school, and when the situation comes up that there is no money, then we call out here in Parliament when index checks are made. Come back to this world, people. What are you guys up to? You see a few ten million euro cuts and eyes closed on billions of spending. That's your housekeeping? I'm a little surprised. I have often wondered if I would be silent on this matter, but now I can't be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u165	Mr. Speaker! Of course, making these decisions is neither easy nor pleasant for any of us. I was not here during the last parliamentary term, but I found out here how it was that from 26 to 27 March 2014 in the same spending limits debate that I mentioned earlier — the Social Democrats and the Greens were involved, the Left Alliance was still involved but, of course, resigned — a decision was taken to cut these indices from 1.6 percentage points to 0.4, i.e. 1.2 percentage points in the then index. It was estimated that 150 million of pensioners — the same pensioners who were affected — were excluded. This is now cutting 77 million in total. Two years ago, the Social Democrats and the Left — well, the Left Alliance did not then, because it jumped right into the opposition, but the Social Democrats and the Greens were prepared to cut the index increase of 1.2 percentage points out of the smallest pensions permanently, never promised to be replaced. This has certainly caused pensioner poverty today, as the Chairman of the Pensioners' Association, Kalevi Kivistö, said in his statement, and said that at the same time the initial liability for medical benefits came into play, and this made the situation worse for pensioners living on small pensions. So, unfortunately, now this government, which is now sitting, is committing the same sin as the previous government, when it operated on the most vulnerable. Mr. Speaker! If you don't mind, I'll go back a little bit further. I remember well when, at the turn of the millennium, under the leadership of the Social Democrats, the lower part of the national pension was cut from those receiving a smaller pension. That cut was made in three years, I think, by a cut corresponding to an index increase, because pension provision cannot be cut at once so that the pension would be reduced, so it was managed in this way. And for good! To date, that cut has cost billions of the most low - income pensioners. It was the decision made by Lipponen's government at a very good time, the cutting of the base, I think, from 120,000 of the lowest-income pensioners, and indeed permanently, and this is how it continues. At the same time, of course, the employment pension index was weakened, but it is now in Kimmo Kiljunen's care at the moment, so that we see how the Social Democrats deal with it here when it appears to be coming to this Chamber next year. Mr President! President Rinne presented the election goals of the Social Democrats and the policy orientations of this parliamentary term on 20 March 2015, which is about exactly one month before the last parliamentary elections. In that presentation he stated that 800 million of the indexes will be cut during this parliamentary term. Well, of course, the indexation of the central government shares of municipalities was the main thing in this respect, but when the central government shares of municipalities do not even rise to EUR 800 million during this parliamentary term, it was a total sum drawn from the sleeve if it had not also included the discipline of pensioners across the board and so on. What is the value of an election promise when the chairman of such an index cut of EUR 800 million, Rinne, promised? It is a huge sum of indices when inflation is 1%, perhaps just under this period. So all the indices would have been cut off across the line. This was a socialist model for this parliamentary term. Now you are opposed to this operation, just like all the other surgeries. Where are your responsibilities, the left and the Greens, in this situation? Last season, as I said, you increased public debt by almost EUR 40 billion. Unemployment increased by 112,000 persons, human beings. Gross domestic product fell in three years. This is the legacy you gave to this government. Unfortunately, we now have to take a number of measures. Fortunately, this government, by way of derogation from your time, has, for example, increased the guarantee pension once, and the second increase decision has already been taken, i.e. the status of the most vulnerable has been improved in this way. Among other things, the abolition of VAT on these people on the lowest income is a healthy and good measure and, above all, the fact that, after a long period of darkness, employment has been improved, business activity has risen, and that is why the economy is entering into a petition that has not taken place at all during the last parliamentary term. On the contrary, you owed the municipalities. For example, the current budget for next year will strengthen the local government finances as a whole by EUR 39 million. Not much, but it is a huge change in what was in the last period when municipalities owed EUR 7 billion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u167	Mr President! This proposed cut is now targeted at the lowest incomes. It cuts benefits such as national pension, guarantee pension, disabled people's benefits, basic unemployment allowance, labour market support, child increase, the exclusivity of medical benefits, i.e. the most vulnerable. Mr Hoskonen said that this was part of the line chosen by the government. Well, that's how it is. The government's policy is to increase inequality and poverty.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u170	Mr President! We must now praise the representatives of the government parties in our own committee. This report, which has been adopted in committee, states that 'the Committee considers it problematic in terms of the overall nature of the social security system if the primacy of basic safety on grounds of reason in relation to last resort and means-tested income support continues to deteriorate'. "Deteriorations are part of strengthening the increasing andlonger dependence of low-income workers Very good text. And now I would like to draw attention just beyond all party boundaries to the fact that these cuts in benefits, which are already, in principle, very low in terms of the fact that people are being grazed from all sides, the result is that people fall into income support, and income support is a form of support that has also been found to be linked to the increase and growth of long-term unemployment. Long-term unemployment costs, and it is rightly a matter of concern here, EUR 8.8 billion, and that is the biggest problem and disgrace in society at the moment. What do we need? Work, employment policy. That's what I expect from the government. We need investment in education, not cuts, and we need to maintain consumer demand in these low income groups too, because they spend money on food and clothing here. They do not buy timeshares abroad or take it to trips to Far East Asia. So we don't need tax breaks for high incomes, as the government is doing now. The SDP won't give more money to high incomes. The SDP would direct this funding to the low incomes and should demand for consumption. But we agree: we want to break the debt problem. But the government's taking on more debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u171	Mr President! Once again, with this proposal, the government is increasing inequality, and in many ways it is also very unfair. As has been said here, the government will strengthen the livelihood of people who earn more than EUR 7000 with various reliefs but will cut the income and social security of the most low-income people. And in that respect, the government will increase poverty and direct people to income support, thereby increasing the long-term risk of unemployment, which Mr Haatainen has just said, and increasing the number of these people. At the same time as the government takes these decisions, it has been estimated that the purchasing power of these people — the people of this target group, for whom we are now dealing with the law — will be cut by up to 6% during this term of government, and we know that its impact will be very great on the everyday lives of these people. That is why this is not a small matter, but a very big one, including a matter of principle. The second thing that amazes me is that Mr Hoskonen and the representative: We were attacked by the Kankaanniemi because we require impact assessments in advance. To the extent that the government makes decisions we require this impact assessment. Last season, I had the great honour of being part of a working group of the Ministry of Finance, which specifically sought operational practices and processes that would be able to carry out impact assessments in the context of normal preparation for the budget, so that the government would not then bring us bad legislation in Parliament, but rather be a normal part of the legislative process. I'm really sorry the government hasn't taken it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u172	Mr President! For example, in the Government Programme, the Government itself has stressed the importance of these impact and effectiveness assessments, and the Government promised to do them, but they have not been carried out. In particular, the assessment of the synergies between these laws would be so important, since a single law does not necessarily change the matter very much. And I still wonder, like Mr Mikkonen, what reason is there to justify the current cutbacks by the fact that there have been previous cuts. I cannot understand it if, for example, these current cuts are known to lead to dependency on income support. Representative Hoskonen: Thank you for the good advice. So the next time a low-income pensioner there at our corner calls me and tells me that the money is not good enough for food and medicine, then I will give Mrs Hoskosen my regards. I did not quite get a full record of what he said, but I can then check in with the Minutes to check that I do not borrow him wrong, but I thought I heard something like this, that the greetings would be that 'when we now have such a cost machine that we cannot afford now'. And then Mr Hoskosen's further greetings were that 'this surgery is supposed to be the end of the world'. As Mr Hoskonen said, for some, this could be EUR 100, for example, and I know people for whom EUR 100 is actually the 'end of the world'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u173	Mr President! This attempt by the government now to explain the black and white was very interesting to listen to. There is a feeling that, when we are here to slander and deal with these government cuts, it is strangely enough that these too would have been somehow the fault of the opposition, or the opposition would have been even worse if we had been in power, and we are going through the opposition's electoral speeches here. Yes, I would remind the government that when you start passing through your election speeches, the cock of honour does not sing — Mr Kankaanniemi can already go through the next speech, that when the Finns promised that people with incomes of less than EUR 1000 will not be cut, then how did this happen, or many of your other election promises, you can go through them here all night. And that is the only way, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you will not get anywhere, because the situation is that we are now taking the lowest incomes and giving them all to the highest incomes. That is the plot of this cuplet, which is what you are doing. What is very descriptive is that, at the same time as you are now visiting the purse of a low-income pensioner, next year over 7,000 euros a month will win the most of all. It doesn't sound very fair at all. And now that the representatives of the government parties are here, Mr Kangasniemi, Mr Hoskonen and Mr Mäkelä have asked for the floor, please explain to these low-income pensioners, which is why it is right that they should now be cut, but they should be given more than seven tonnes per month. I'd love to hear this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u174	Mr President! The current opposition is the previous government, i.e. it is only two years since the Socialist Minister of Finance was still in the country, and the results were very poor. Everything went wrong, almost as I have said many times today. What was your greatest achievement? You really drastically reduced corporate tax, which led to the fact that some EUR 800 million per year were not receiving State tax revenue — good or bad — and as a result dividends rose enormously, so that last spring, among other things, was the best dividend celebration ever. And where were they celebrated? Mostly in American pension funds. The tax cuts you gave went there, and that bill is now being paid in part. Mr President! I am not going to remind you of the abolition of the property tax; it has already taken away a couple of billions of tax revenues from the state. This impact assessment: I agree that it needs to be developed. In that section on local government and health, when I was chairman and was this week, I think there was a minister to be heard, so I specifically asked you how you have worked out and are going to develop this coordination of the various measures, the different laws and their impact assessment, so he said that the work is going on and that it has progressed very well. Why was this not done in the last parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u177	Mr President! Just as Mr Kankaaniemi listed the great achievements of the demarcations, such as the reduction in capital tax and the abolition of wealth tax, and so on, and the cut in the indexes had to be 800 million here for this parliamentary term, perhaps Mäkisalo-Ropponen will understand that the EUR 77 million cut compared to the EUR 800 million index checks you have presented will give little scale to the credibility of your speeches. I will not comment on any more of them, but it is easy to see the proportions when about a tenth is spoken of now, what is being done and what you would have done if you had managed to do well in the elections. And as far as these income support is concerned, of course, in society and in the municipality — every person living in a municipality — that person will be cared for. It's obvious. But if we don't take care of public finances... As Mr Kankaaniemi said just now, in his previous speech, the economic situation in the municipalities is beginning to improve over a long period of time, in other words, we are in the process of making a policy that improves the ability of municipalities to act, does not weaken, as you have done for billions. Which one do you think is better? When you, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, at the market in Joensuu, sound these truths, remember to tell the whole truth. It may feel good to tell you the truth, but it does leave the truth to you. When you look at the issue I have just mentioned, how this will affect people who pay a lot of income support and housing allowance. It has an enormous impact on the future of this country. Look what the Greek road has been. My friend is from Greece. He explained how his parents were cut off from pensions, not a percentage, not EUR 77.5 million, but two thirds of the entire state’s pension went away. Why? That is why when the sustainability of public finances was not taken care of. Is that what you really want: that our public finances are in such a state that the state is no longer able to pay its pensions. Yes, a responsible policy always involves, as is the case with your own economy, trying to keep your income slightly higher than your expenses and also living in a way that has something to do with a bad day on the sockside. This is a sustainable road for the state, and now, as we see, we have about 30,000 more jobs from the moment this government has been and politics began to influence. This is the first year in which the current government budget is actually making a difference. It has already made significant effects in the first year, and now more and more are coming. As we heard yesterday: the thousand jobs in the car factory and the bioeconomy are good, the shipyards are in a good mood, you are being repaired, including a lower road network. And many more things, the list is long. But this too must not be satisfied and no one should be happy, but must see it, so that the light is slowly returning to the dark economic situation in Finland. We are on the European Union's watch list, ladies and gentlemen, that is a serious matter. And even more serious is the eyes of the ratingrs that have been created for us many times already. One credit ratingr said that they will return to the assessment as I remember it, if I remember correctly, next spring. After all, at certain intervals, our creditworthiness will be assessed, and not many times will the Commission have to pay attention to us when even the rating agencies take it into account. Will you, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, take the risk of what happens afterwards? It is the Greek road, which is then a terrible road. It can cost a little more pensions, and then the government can only cut its own expenses. It cannot go to a private purse to borrow from there, as you did from Sitra's balance sheet and the Bank of Finland. You can't go to the other person's purse then. Only the expenditure that the state takes, the state or parliament can influence by its decisions will then be taken. At that point, you can't go into a private purse. And if anyone in this house still thinks that tax tightening will bring added value to the Finnish economy, then is this road not complete, ladies and gentlemen? If anyone imagines that tax tightening will cause this country's economy to rise: You guys tried it last season, didn't you? How was that going to happen? That's pretty bad. I would find 28 flaws in that budget book, too, even if right away, but I have to look at the whole, just as in the management of my own economy I sometimes have to admit that when the money is not enough for good shoes, we buy a little cheaper, but they just walk.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u178	When a false witness was given here about the election program of the True Finns, I will correct that false witness. A direct quote from the election program: "Voluncture foldable." And another direct quote: "Tax-free revenue of EUR 1000 a month." This tax exemption of EUR 1000 is close to the target, not quite yet, but the company is good and the target is close. Earlier, when I compared immigration costs and child allowances from the same budget with the Rules of Procedure, we were talking about pensions and the long-term unemployed in the same sentence. If it is unclear to the Social Democrats, the pensioner is earned a pension. The unemployed person is unemployed and needs a job. But unlike the SDP, at least we offer the most difficult opportunity for the long-term unemployed to retire. In this Chamber, we could repeat the same speech on many of these points as before. Unfortunately, however, I do not believe that the opposition will be wise in these speeches. Let me just say again that I am deeply concerned about the state of the opposition in our country. The Finnish people would deserve an opposition that does not live in the post-truth period, but in this time when the information that is available would also be introduced. We all know in this Chamber, and we will certainly understand, even though we pretend to be incomprehensible that the country's economy is in terrible shape. We have built a welfare state that, on this scale, we do not seem to be able to afford. Something has to be changed. The opposition is putting on a huge complaint storm every time responsible parties, in the best interests of the country, try to adjust welfare state spending to income. Here again, it is not a huge issue, nor is it a matter of dealing with the poorest, but of taking care of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u179	Mr President! Mr Räsänen said that we have a long list of promises that we have not fulfilled. Yes, we have a young history as a party, but you have a long history, and that legislation and all the tricks you have done in that history are now coming into our arms, and we must correct these things. That is the responsible policy and not the idea of going there and babbling around the corner of the squares. Next time there is an election, I hope the Social Democrats will be in charge of the government, and this cold fact will come before us otherwise. And then the credibility of that policy goes away when it is not possible to deliver on the terrible good promises that are being made in that corner of the market. I may be running for the next election, too, and I'm not happy to go with these lists. But when you take responsibility for things, you have to make a bad decision. This is the shadow budget of the Social Democrats that I would introduce if it were so brilliant. But if you look at it from an economic point of view, you'll have to put it in an o-map. It's just like I said, like a rake on a tarred bridge: sometimes there's a tail on the ground and sometimes a beak, and it stays swinging on it, you don't know which side to fall on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u180	Mr President! It is important that pensioners have incomes that enable them to buy food and other needs. But another very important issue, especially for pensioners, is that they have services. During the last parliamentary term and in this previous years, the local government finances in particular have been tightened and weakened, and the previous government period in particular cut so drastically that almost all municipalities raised tax rates during the last parliamentary term, increased payments, the entire local government sector took up 7 billion debts, held joint negotiations, laid off workers and weakened services. This was the trend during the last parliamentary term. I'm sure Mr. Haatainen will be able to confirm this when he's been to the Association of Local and Regional Authorities to check out the key location. Thus it happened that the municipalities were unable to respond to the cry they had to bear responsibility for elderly people, for example. The situation has now changed dramatically. This book, as I said, strengthens the local government finances as a whole, according to both the Association of Local and Regional Authorities and the Ministry of Local and Regional Authorities, by 39 million. This is certainly the first time that this has happened in ten years, and that is a significant change. So this is why the municipalities don't go into debt. Further: Today we discussed with the leadership of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, and we said that the thirteen municipalities will reduce their tax rate next year. Even in a decade, no municipality has reduced its tax rate. So the local government finances have now become stronger under this government. There's hardly any Yt negotiations, maybe nowhere. There are no crisis groups coming now. There were dozens of them last season. In other words, the situation in terms of local government finances and municipalities is now much better, and it is of great value for pensioners and elderly people and families with children.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u181	Mr President! When we really talk about pensions and the cuts to pensions, and we are now hoping for a bigger picture and an understanding of it, if I do not remember quite correctly — when the government parties here are always concerned about this debt and accuse the opposition of somehow indebtedness — if we look back on this year, last autumn, when we were discussing the state budget, the government suggested taking 5 billion debts. Well, now during this year, in the supplementary budget proposals there has been a billion more that 6 billion went this year. And you justify these cuts by reducing the need for debt. In fact, the need for debt is growing. It should also be made clear that when we talk here about an alternative budget for the SDP, for example, it takes debt less than the government does. However, it should now be quite honestly recognised here by the representatives of the government parties.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u182	Mr President! With the call for the impact of economic policy on the life situation of individual citizens and families, I happen to have this kind of assessment now by Nordea, which assesses the impact of legislative changes on the low income ratio from 2011 to 2017. In practice, this description clearly shows that low income has decreased until 2015, but low income has increased by many degrees, with many indicators since 2015, i.e. during this term of government, low income has grown by means of national budget projects such as these. But the second thing I want to say is that we are talking about local government finances here. It is positive if the local government economy is doing a little better, but the big problem for the government at the moment is that it is deepening the poverty of low-income people, the situation of young people and the long-term unemployed, and that is how it becomes very difficult for our society. When it was called for, among other things, to tackle long-term unemployment, I fully agree that it should be tackled, but I was very sad to see, for example, how, for example, pay subsidies for these people will be reduced next season. For example, the whole of south-eastern Finland, which covers Kouvola, Kotka, Hamina, Lappeenranta, Imatra, all of that corner, we have about 250 employee-supporting years. There are currently 150 in Lappeenranta alone. Where are the 50 from the perspective of all south-eastern Finland? Lappeenranta and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u183	Mr. Speaker! I would like to say to Mr Räsänen that there is now an explanation of this in the third additional budget and an increase in this particular cost of immigration. According to the additional budget, they amount to 820 million for those who came last year and this year, and then when they put the old burdens on immigration, about 300 million, this year immigration will be a pure cost to the state of EUR 1.1 billion. In other words, a billionth grade will be in government debt on this issue, since the previous period did not manage immigration policy as has been done this year, thanks to the Finns of Finland. So it accounts for a billion dollars of government debt, and in view of that, then 5 billion is the debt that is still taken from the normal situation. You owed the municipalities EUR 7 billion, 20 billion during the last parliamentary term, you ate the state treasury EUR 7 billion and sold assets for more than EUR 3 billion, and you also incurred a EUR 1 billion correction debt during the last parliamentary term, now it is being reduced. Now the municipalities are not going to be in debt, the state is going to be much slower in debt and the cashier cannot be eaten when it has already been eaten by you. In other words, these figures tell us precisely when it comes to public debt that the situation has improved quite significantly. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats would finance, among other things, Sitra’s consumption of capital — that is a one-off expense, and since then it has been destroyed if it is eaten — and, among other things, a financial tax, which is
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u184	Mr President! Just as Mr Kankaanniemi told Mr Räsänen about this situation, which is why it is the Finnish economy, so because we have had to take more debt, immigration costs are one part of it. We must be honest, however, and Mr Räsäsesta would have liked a young man to have a good memory of the story of what has really happened here, but of course, if you choose things from there and from here, then you always get the desired outcome. Man is always a master in these excuses. Every one of us can control it if we want to. The important thing to note here is that the direction has been reversed. We will never get to the level of unemployment — never — that we have 0 unemployed. We have structural unemployment. According to civilised data and estimates, some 100,000 people are those who are really hard to employ. Of course, the government will try. Every reasonable person wants good for a neighbor, it is a fundamental Christian obligation, it is a matter of honor. The only way forward is, of course, to try to make the labour market work, to make the systems more flexible, to facilitate recruitment, and so on and so on. Germany has gone this way, and it is doing well. I'm not going to lecture about it anymore. Everyone can find out what Germany did. It was your Social Democrats, Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, who did it. Ingratitude is the pay of the world, he was fired after making a good reform. But in any case, we must now go down the same road: work for as many people as possible, and social security will keep people involved. And I hope that, in the context of the reform of unemployment security, in order to get unemployed people to work, there will be a genuine debate in this country about the part of the unemployment benefit that a person can receive, even if it is a pay subsidy, or whatever it is. I know that there are de minimis rules of this kind and others which limit this factor, and also in the attitude of the trade union movement, I have seen little to be desired in this regard. — — — — I do not know the correct term, name, but I would like to see some of the unemployment benefit, whatever it is that person receives, used as a pay subsidy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u185	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 28/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u186	Mr President! This government proposal for a law amending Article 54 of the Pensioner's Housing Act concerns the housing allowance for pensioners, which is proposed as savings, and this saving is proposed to be made in such a way that the maximum amounts of eligible housing expenditure, the average housing costs and the euro amounts for heating, water and maintenance costs will be maintained in 2017, i.e. they will be equal to the amounts they have been in 2015 and 2016. This proposal will reduce central government expenditure by EUR 6.9 million per year. The disposable income of low-income pensioners is mainly influenced by housing costs and, in particular, by the level of rents that have recently risen relatively rapidly compared to general price developments. In its report, the committee notes that: According to Statistics Finland's rental index, the average increase in rents in the second quarter of this year was 2.7 per cent from the corresponding period of last year. The committee also notes in its report that at the end of 2015, the pensioner’s housing allowance received nearly 200,000 people and the maximum amount of eligible housing expenditure is exceeded by almost one in four beneficiaries. The non-increase in the maximum housing expenditure of this pensioner is estimated to increase the number of beneficiaries exceeding the maximum housing expenditure in 2017 and will increase the use of income support as housing expenditure will be more compensated as income support. At the same time, the rent level acceptable for housing support differs from the rent level deemed necessary for granting income support. The committee, in its report, notes that the committee believes that the impact of the proposal on the income and overall situation of pensioners would have been a good idea in the proposal to assess more comprehensively, taking into account changes in other benefits at the same time. In addition, it would have been appropriate to assess the impact of the proposal on municipal expenditure. The committee's proposal for a decision is that Parliament adopt the bill contained in the Government proposal of 152/2016 without amendment. There was a vote on this, i.e. a motion to reject the bill, but the decision to vote upheld the government proposal. This includes two objections. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u187	Mr President! The Government will again reduce the situation of the most economically disadvantaged pensioners by keeping the maximum housing expenditure, the average housing expenditure and the euro amounts for heating, water and maintenance costs in the case of housing support for pensioners unchanged, i.e. due to the previous freeze at 2015 level. With its proposal, the government will reduce the housing allowance for the pensioner by approximately EUR 3.5 million next year and EUR 6.9 million on an annual basis. The living conditions of low-income pensioners are strongly influenced by the increase in rents, which has recently continued to be relatively rapid compared to the overall price trend. According to Statistics Finland's rental index, the average increase in rents in the second quarter of this year was 2.7 per cent from the corresponding period of last year. At the end of 2015, less than 200,000 people received housing allowance for the pensioner. The average subsidy was EUR 222,72 and the average housing expenditure of the beneficiaries was EUR 481. On average, the subsidy covered 46 per cent of housing expenditure. The ceiling is approximately 23%, i.e. around 46,300 beneficiaries of housing allowance. The freezing of maximum housing expenditure should further increase the number of beneficiaries exceeding the maximum housing expenditure and income support expenditure. In practice, people receiving housing allowance for pensioners are the most vulnerable to pensioners in terms of their daily income. Their livelihoods are also significantly weakened by other cuts in benefits already made by the government and planned for next year. At its worst, the difficulties in the pensioner’s financial situation and the uncertainty in the housing situation undermine well-being and functional capacity and increase costs in social and health services. The main problem with housing allowance is the low level of eligible rent compared to market rents when granting the aid. Many recipients of housing allowance have to fill their low housing allowance by relying on long-term income support, even if it should serve as a last resort. We cannot accept attempts to curb rising housing costs by cutting the benefit for the recipients of housing allowance. Housing policy and housing support schemes must be developed systematically as part of a sustainable society and affordable housing production must be ensured. We require the government to cancel the savings it has proposed for housing support for pensioners. That is why we will propose at second reading that this bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u188	Mr President! This is already the number of government bills that increase pensioner poverty and the plight of low-income elderly people. When these come in such a row, I hope that the government will finally understand why it is so important to carry out an assessment of the synergies of the legislative proposals. Well, in addition to the shortcomings in the assessment of the synergies between these laws, even in this bill, alternative costs have not been fully calculated. This bill also increases income support expenditure, which means that the government thinks it will save but does not take into account that these savings are transferred elsewhere, for example to income support expenditure. On the other hand, Mr President, it is ethically questionable in this draft law that attempts are being made to reduce the rising housing costs by cutting the benefits of the recipients of housing allowance. This government's choice of means is central to making the most vulnerable citizens pay for the most diverse social problems while giving tax relief to the rich. Housing costs must be curbed, but they must be curbed by other means, i.e. by securing decent housing production in other ways, not by taking low income pensioners from small incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u189	Mr President! The objection to the committee's deliberations rightly states that the central problem of housing allowance is the low level of acceptable rent compared to market rents. It is clear that there is a contradiction between housing allowance for pensioners living in growth centres and market rents, in particular. I therefore strongly appeal to the Social Democrats to influence your trade union colleagues working on the Party's membership book, to put an end to the theft of tax-free dividends such as the VVO, and to the VVO, because of its traditions and the traditions of its owners, to take up morale and to give up the constant increase in rents and housing subsidies. If large operators, such as VVO and its public utility owners, were to put a tax-free dividend per million each year into a union, rents could be reduced. Someone has calculated that if the unions were to settle for an 8 % annual good return, rents could be reduced by up to hundreds of euros per rental dwelling. This would immediately make the market easier and the market prices of the rents would fall. This would help low-paid workers and pensioners. Nor can it be a sustainable solution for the state to simply increase housing aid indefinitely and for tax-free profits for non-profit housing investors to increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u190	Mr President! This is certainly the part of the line that Mr Hoskosen has just told us about, namely cutting off the most low incomes and cutting off pensioners from living, which is a fundamental right for all. As has been said many times here, these many cuts are now targeting the same people and will increase both the use of income support and poverty among pensioners. But it is true that we should be able to think about our housing allowance system. We have a huge shortage of affordable housing all over Finland. It is often said that they are lacking in growth centres, but they are lacking everywhere. When asked about the social welfare and health leaders of municipalities with less than 15,000 inhabitants, one third of them found that their municipality is short of affordable housing. Currently, 15 per cent of the population, i.e. over 800,000 people, are receiving housing allowance and more than 60 per cent of Finnish residents are already receiving housing allowance in some form. We must jointly consider how the housing allowance can be reformed in such a way that the total cost of housing allowance does not increase so unduly that we cannot take care of it. In this respect, the need-tested housing allowance for direct households is very well targeted, and in itself it is a good way to support housing, but the question is how we will ensure that there are enough affordable housing for all,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u191	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 21/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u192	Mr President! The steak of the Government’s proposal here was the integration of two state reception centres currently under the auspices of the Ministry of the Interior with the Finnish Immigration Service, the reception centres of Oulu and Joutseno. In fact, this is already in line with the long-term development in which immigration issues, both operational issues and various responsibilities, have been transferred to the Finnish Immigration Service, and in this way the Agency will increasingly become a global player in the field of immigration, and this proposal can be regarded as quite justified in this respect. The committee has drawn up a very well-founded report here again, and I would, in fact, confine myself to two details, which I am sure should be made clear here. The first relates to the fact that, as in all organisational reforms, when organisations are combined, it is clear that when there is harmonisation of staff salaries, for example, this is where harmonisation usually takes place upwards. In this respect, this amount of approximately EUR 50000 will also increase costs, but it can be managed within the budget of the Finnish Immigration Service. The second thing I would be missing is that, now that the staff of these reception centres are transferred to the Finnish Immigration Service, employment relationships are becoming official relationships. Perhaps you may wonder whether it is always justified for all tasks, such as the Finnish Immigration Service, to have a state official relationship, or whether it would perhaps be more appropriate in the future if it could then be possible to work there as well. At the moment, experts believe that this can be done better by using only one employment relationship, but I think we should also think about this in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u193	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 12/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u194	Mr President! The preparation of the Youth Act has been a long process, involving openly the actors in Finnish youth work, action and youth work policy, and above all young people themselves. The active involvement of the trade unions involved in cooperation with youth work in producing the content of the law must also be commended. The opinion of the Committee on Education highlights the importance of consultation with young people and the importance of cross-sectoral cooperation. The service system for Finnish children and young people is currently quite fragmented and requires organisation as a sensible whole in order to reach as many young people as possible. Cross-sectoral cooperation also has an impact on very important outreach youth work and workshop activities and on young people’s access to the services they really need at the right time. The Youth Act helps to ensure that our young people grow up into adults who value the environment, life and multiculturalism.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u195	Mr President! The aims of this bill are good and very well supported, and the Committee on Culture has done a good job in drafting the report. Thank you to the entire committee for this. I particularly welcome the proposal for a statement drawn up jointly there, which requires the Ministry of Education and Culture to assess the impact of reforms on youth work in the regions and social services and will continue to ensure that the objectives of the Youth Act are achieved at both municipal and regional level. The adoption of this statement will ensure follow-up over the next critical years when major changes in the functioning of municipalities occur. Mr President! In the report, the committee has also drawn great attention to the fact that the service system for children and young people is often very fragmented and prevents all young people from reaching them. Young people particularly in need of help and service, who are easily excluded from the service, suffer particularly from this. With the forthcoming reforms, the challenges of integrating services will continue to grow and particular attention will therefore need to be paid to this issue. This is also well taken into account in the report of the Committee on Culture. Mr President! Youth work and policy will continue to be the basic tasks of the municipality and also the responsibility of the municipality. I am therefore pleased that the Committee on Education has made a clear statement that the municipality will continue to take responsibility within the framework of the Youth Act and, more generally, for measures aimed at reducing youth unemployment, such as the implementation of the Youth and Community Guarantee. I think this is a very good line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u196	Honorable Mr. Speaker! The topic is the Youth Act, which targets 1.8 million Finns. So there is no precise question, even if you could imagine the name of the law referring to it. The law has adhered to the definition that young people are all under 30 years of age. This issue of age limits raised some debate on the draft law, but the committee did not move on to this amendment. Maybe we'll have another conversation sometime. With the target group of the Youth Act as described, it is clear that it can affect a very important part of society. The law governs the activities of municipalities and youth policies in municipalities, whose central role is to enable children and young people to have active citizenship and to have maximum participation in society. The comprehensiveness of the law is well illustrated by the inclusion of provisions on youth workshop activities, which have proved to be one of the important joint-stage activities of young people moving from non-participation to inclusion, lack of competence to knowledge, exclusion from active activities. Some of the experts who had consulted the committee regretted the exclusion of social reinforcement from the objectives of the law in force. It is from the point of view of workshop activities and outreach youth work that social strengthening of young people is a key objective. Experts believe that the inclusion of social reinforcement in the objectives would better take into account disadvantaged young people as well as the strengthening of everyday life management and social capacity, which are now missing out on the stated objectives. The detailed explanatory memorandum of the draft law implicitly refers to social strengthening as an objective when it refers to measures aimed at young people to improve their life skills and prevent exclusion. According to Article 10 of the draft law, the task of seeking youth work is to help young people to benefit from services and other support that promote their growth, independence, inclusion in society and other life-management, access to education and to the labour market — all important things. Article 13 of the proposal states that the purpose of the workshop is to improve young people's life-management skills, to promote their growth, independence and participation in society. The interpretation of the Committee on Education is that although social consolidation as a term is lacking in the stated objectives, the issue itself is a key objective of the new Youth Act and must also be central to all the work that is being done with young people. Loneliness, helplessness, drifting away, falling out of education and unemployment are all the risks that need social strengthening of the child and young people to combat. Mr President! I share the serious concern that arose in the expert consultation regarding the historic and extensive reform of the region, which was already referred to here by Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen. The question we ask is: How will future reforms contribute to the wider picture in which youth work as one sector aims to promote the social strengthening and inclusion of young people? How will cooperation be organised between the authorities of the municipalities and the future provinces and other actors? How will it be possible to steer to services if the whole becomes fragmented in the future? What will happen to school student care, curator activities, health care if basic social and health care services are transferred to regional companies? These issues will also be considered in the context of other legislation. The concentration of services in the regions may undermine the ability of young people to be heard. This must be done to ensure that young people continue to be consulted, even if the structures change. I believe that early childhood education, youth work and basic education can be seen as part of a broader package, including social and health services. All of these are ultimately about empowering services, the empowerment service. It is essential in society for the citizen to be strengthened and to survive that all empowerment services act in the same direction. It is crucial that cooperation is seamless and that there are no gaps between the actors in which an individual citizen, a young person, falls and drowns.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u197	Mr President! Now we really are dealing with a significant law affecting 1.8 million Finns, and even though I am no longer covered by this law, it is appropriate to say a few things about it: Perhaps the first, where Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Mr Kantola also intervened, is that this report is very much emphasising the role of the municipality as an actor in youth work as well as in youth policy. What is very important is that the responsibility for youth employment and the prevention of unemployment rests very clearly with the municipality. This brings us to the fact that, at a time when these historic reforms, both social and health care reform and regional reform, are actually being carried out and at the same time the municipality of the future is being considered, in this consideration of the municipality of the future, where this parliamentary work is also taking place, we should now take this inclusion of the youth guarantee and the social guarantee much more forcefully in the municipal tasks, because, to a large extent, the weakest points have come from the fact that no one has taken the lead locally to find the employment paths for young people, and that is primarily the role of the municipality, and this must be confirmed. This is also well suited to the reflection that we have been going through in this Chamber on the wider issue of increasing the role of the municipality in employment, and I think that these employment services should also be transferred to the municipalities in the future. Another good example of this law, where this improves compared to the current situation, is the recognition of this youth workshop and how it has worked successfully, and this is taken into account in the law itself. Hopefully, this approach will also increasingly be developed in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u198	Mr President! The aim of the Youth Act would be to promote the inclusion and empowerment of young people as well as the capacity and capacity to act in society, to support the growth, independence, community and related learning of knowledge and skills, as well as the practice and activities of young people in civil society, to promote equality, equality and the realisation of rights among young people, and to improve the conditions for growth and living of young people. All the above objectives are well-supported and necessary, taking into account the uncertainties faced by young people today, the development of inequalities and the risk of social exclusion for young people. It is therefore essential for the functioning of our society that young people become responsible and active citizens. The Government proposal has been based on a very broad-based preparatory work. In expert hearings, thanks were given to the consultation of young people, the promotion of cross-sectoral cooperation in youth work and the emphasis on equality among young people. However, cross-cutting cooperation can be further strengthened, for example with regard to authorities, churches and congregations. The church and parishes are prominent actors in youth work and one of the main partners of municipalities in child and youth work. For example, many young people take part in confessional school and big business each year. The parishes also play an important role in integrating young refugees and asylum seekers into Finnish society. It is therefore appropriate to take greater account of parishes in the Youth Act and as partners in youth activities. And a few things about these passages. Drug testing in youth workshops: the Constitutional Committee also made a statement on this issue, and according to the opinion of the Constitutional Committee one wording was also changed. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs proposes to reduce the organiser's right to require a young person to present a certificate of a drug test as a right to ask the young person to present a certificate. Similarly, paragraph 2 proposes that the guardian of a minor should be informed of the request for a certificate of a drug test. If a minor is dealing with drugs, it is important that parents also receive that information. In paragraph 3, the committee proposes to add a sentence corresponding to the explanatory statement of the section, which, if the organiser of the youth workshop does not obtain the evidence he requests for a drug test and if the young person is scheduled to perform the tasks set out in paragraph 1, the young person's training plan and the agreement referred to in Article 13 may be revised. Mr President! A proposal for a statement was also made: the Ministry of Education and Culture will examine the impact of the reforms of the regional and social welfare and health services on youth work and ensure the achievement of the objectives of the Youth Act. All in all, this government proposal is good and I am very pleased that the Youth Act has been made a law that really serves young people. Hopefully, it will also be able to respond to the exclusion and inequality of young people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u199	Mr President! In the previous speech, when reference was made to the fact that this law was aimed at multiculturalism, I had to correctly check this terminology issue. In other words, the small difference in this draft law is that it is not so much a question of multiculturalism but of cultural diversity and internationalism, which, in terms of concepts, are quite different from multiculturalism, which is more of an ideology of a particular style. I think it is excellent that the government is consistent in this bill, too, in trying to get rid of the fact that this term of multiculturalism is used for these other objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u200	Madam President! The debate on youth law has been interesting, and the big issue is the consultation of young people, including the ability to improve these services among young people in the future. Youth councils are one of these key players in this consultation of young people, and I personally believe it is necessary that, in accordance with the law, all municipalities now put into action as required by law. The regional reform will also be accompanied by regional youth councils, and hopefully they will also be made to work effectively, so that in this regional activity too, the consultation of young people will take place. Regional reform will also significantly reform the services of young people, and in this debate I would like to highlight my hope that, when social and health care services are transferred from the municipalities to the provinces, the services of young people, namely school health care, school curators, school psychologists will continue to be the responsibility of the municipalities. It would be very important that this link between school and school health care, curators and school psychologists should not be broken, and I hope that this very important issue for young people will also be taken into account in the process of this social reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u201	Mr President! In September, there were 42,300 unemployed young people under the age of 25. The large figure shows the structural indifference of Finnish society and politics towards young people. Employment among young people in particular is cyclically sensitive and the risk of unemployment is higher than for the adult population. Under pressure from the economy, companies stop recruiting and reduce fixed-term employees and replacements, which affects young people in particular. Young people themselves see it as the most difficult to get a first job, as employers want to employ those who already have work experience. Cities and municipalities play a major role in hiring summer workers. According to this new Youth Act, youth work and youth policy are the tasks of the municipality. I hope that municipal councils will increase their budgets for 2017 to recruit young people between the ages of 15 and 25 for summer work. In particular, next year will be an important year when we celebrate 100-year-old Finland. Just next year, young people will need a super-dose of positive special treatment. Both municipal decision-makers and us here in Parliament should understand that it is not just concerned speeches that help young people. The word must become flesh, money. Structural indifference only deepens if it is done only on economic terms and on the basis of business logic. Young people feel that getting a job is a prerequisite for a culturally acceptable life and that employment is an achievement towards adulthood and independence. Young people's lives are here and now. They cannot be required to wait five years for time to heal. Mr President! Every Finnish citizen has a constitutional right to work. This requires public intervention at every level. Municipalities and cities need to be active because they need the courage, vision and the power of reform of young people. The municipalities have many different tasks for which summer workers are needed. There is outdoor work related to the management of parks and areas and work with people in day-care centres, in service homes for the elderly and disabled, as well as other sensible activities. Young people wish to receive training and guidance from summer jobs in addition to pay. It is the responsibility of the working communities to set an example for young people how to work hard for their pay. Young people must not lose faith in the rules and consistency of working life. Hannes Hynönen, a country-famous military veteran from Mikkeli, wisely said: "Man must have a job. If you have to be idle, you'll think of all the other evils. It misleads the young people and makes mistakes that they would not otherwise make." These are the words of Hannes that I hope the Parliament and all the municipalities in Finland will remember. The work of young people rejuvenates Finland. Mr President! In the SDP's alternative budget, it is proposed that, in honor of the anniversary of independence, all young people be guaranteed summer work and that the independent Finnish State take the initiative in a challenge campaign involving companies, organisations and all Finnish municipalities and that they commit themselves to hiring young people for at least two weeks to work. Trades and other already significant summer workers are challenged to increase the number of people by 10 per cent. The State would fulfil its obligations with EUR 10 million in summer funding, but also by promoting access to health and hygiene passports and removing obstacles to legislation. In addition, we propose in our alternative budget that young people be employed in Metsähallitus nature services' national parks and hiking areas with an additional EUR 2 million allocation. Finnish nature is also the future of Finnish young people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u202	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u203	Madam President! Bullying is a serious problem that needs to be addressed better. Bullying causes pain, which is hard to describe in words. It robs a person of dignity and self - confidence — the things that everyone needs to be the basic pillars of his life. Today, the final solution in difficult situations has been the transfer of a student to another school. The guy who left is the victim. Why does a bully have to change schools? I want to question this thinking. It puts a vulnerable victim in an unreasonable situation where he escapes into a completely new social environment. Madam President! I have prepared a legislative initiative that will enable municipalities to deal better and more fairly with serious bullying in schools. The initiative will facilitate the transfer to another school of a pupil who causes particularly serious mental or physical harm by bullying. The aim is to ensure the best possible implementation of a safe learning environment. The change sends out a message that the bullying student may also be a party who will have to change schools if necessary. This message has a deterrent effect on bullying, and it is increasingly expressing the position of the state on bullying. A bully will also benefit from the change when the bullying cycle is properly cut off. The current disciplinary measures are often inadequate and do not remedy the damage suffered by the victim. The bully is not given adequate protection. Madam President! It is important that the experience of the bullied person with corrective actions gives a clear sense of appreciation and belonging to the community. It's a message of serious concern, and as a procedure, it's going to stop the development of trauma. The exchange of schools gives the bully a message to correct thinking, values, attitudes and behavior. For the positive future of the bully, clarity and effectiveness can be a prerequisite and guarantee for a good life. It's not about disciplinary action. This measure also applies to the victim. School exchange is the solution because it can be applied to both the bully and the bully. It is a measure to put an end to the conflict between students. Madam President! This isn't against bullies. This is for the bullies. I hope that the bill will receive support in committee and that it will result in measures to help those who are tempted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u204	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! I myself am one of the representatives of more than 100 signatories to the Elovaara bill, and this is a very big matter. I myself took the initiative today to renew it on the next point, a few years ago, and so I myself am a teacher from my education, and in time I did teaching in a special school, in secondary school and in primary school, and as regards bullying, I tried to be as active as possible. I remember that when I made that bill that I am going to present today, I was told that we had other ways of solving these problems. That bill has not come into force, but it has not stopped bullying us with these other measures. I took a few newspaper articles from right here in the last few days. Here, for example, is the news of November 15th. "The life of a bullied eight-year-old turned into a nightmare... My son was kicked, beaten and threatened, and even the guys disappeared: "One night by bedtime my second-grade son burst into tears and said he was thinking when he came to school that hopefully the bullies would not be there waiting, as they had been waiting for every day of the week. My son's being staked out on school trips, waiting for him to come to school. We've been throwing the backpack around so much that the glasses in the backpack are broken. They've been waiting at the school gate this morning and teasing me. One morning, when the boy was wearing clothes, he told me that he always had to think about a different route to school so that those bullies wouldn’t meet him. He said it hurts when they push, and they come at you from behind your back and bark. This is how Mom remembers what happened in the fall." It also says: "We have had Kiva School coordinators working with teachers, special teacher and mother during the autumn. The temptation has not been stopped, but it has been investigated all the time." When it was said that we have the means to intervene in these events, this is one indication that the bullying of my own and the fine Nice School project has not stopped. Finding out about the bullying case has been hampered by the fact that events are outside the school. "He told me that the bully said that if he told you about it, you would have gone to the One pioneer in school bullying, Dr. Jari Andersson, also took part in the discussion on this same news, and he noted why school should not interfere with bullying on school trips. And the cry of Principal Jari Andersson was, "That's crazy, the legislators don't know anything about school life." Well, fortunately, there are a handful of us here in the Chamber who seem to understand something about this. But I am concerned that these measures have not led to a result. "School staff have a legal obligationto inform parents of the bullying that Mr Andersson asked how to report when the event was not allowed to be intervened. "The world of children is not restricted to Teachers and principals should have the right to intervene in bullying on their way to school," Andersson continued. "The bestexperts are without exception the teachers, but they are not. We may have 100,000 curators and psychologists at school, but if the blame is not removed and the consequences are taken care of, the situation is absurd," he says. In another story, Maria says that bullying at school led to alcohol, cutting and violence. "Maria was tempted almost throughout primary school. It was alcohol and cutting that helped to make you feel bad. After knocking some times on the gates of death, Mary decided to change the course of her life eventually. Once, with the struggle, Mary’s leg became so twisted that she had to stay out of school for a few days. When the bullies pulled the chair from under Maria, her tailbone broke. Maria was threatened, she was completely excluded from the group. However, not all families even bothered when the situation was resolved. Nor did it help to file a report of a crime; the bullies did not acknowledge their actions. Finally, the principal informed the parents that he would be transferred to another school to complete secondary school." So the victim of the bullying was transferred to another school. And as the first signatory of the bill pointed out above, asking whether it is right — one can answer that it is not. Bullying got worse, and this tells us how she went to therapy, and Mary also tried to commit suicide several times. Mr President! Tiina Elovaara has made an excellent legislative initiative to have one so-called last resort, or, after my legislative initiative, perhaps the second last resort, to intervene in these situations. Personally, I am prepared to give schools a pretty tough way of tackling this problem in accordance with this bill. But the problem is so serious that I myself am prepared to use these harshest methods in the worst situation. In fact, bullying at school can have life - long effects. According to our research, about every tenth child will experience school bullying at some point. The definition of bullying at school is not easy, and I would therefore encourage all schools to also have a debate on what bullying is, to go through it together and to conclude joint agreements that we will not then commit ourselves to this. I have heard that it has also been addressed: that minors cannot enter into such agreements. I think we should be able to do this. According to the doctoral dissertation of Anu-Helmi Luukonen, bullied boys, for example, are more than three times more at risk of anxiety disorders. Bullying was also associated with allergies, asthma and epilepsy. According to Luke, bullied girls and bullies were more than double the risk of serious suicide attempts. Which means that bullied girls, but also bully girls, are more than double the risk of serious suicide attempts. So even bullies need help. According to a long follow-up study in Britain, school bullying at 50 years of age was less healthy and less likely to have a life partner than others. According to the British survey, the education of school bullies was lower at the age of 50 and their memory was worse than that of others. Why are we letting this happen? It is a serious issue and must be addressed by all means possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u205	Mr President! There has been bullying in school before, and unfortunately there has been bullying today. When a child has to endure bullying for years, the trauma that it causes can follow through life, has a negative effect on a person’s future. How can today’s school — especially the teachers, and also the students — intervene and be obliged to intervene in bullying? I would like to believe that bullying will stop when enough is negotiated, the parties will meet and things will be settled. It may work, but it may be different. Just as Mr Heinonen has just said, there is also a lot of bullying on school trips and the school is not really able to intervene. Sometimes when I was this age, when I was young, I went to high school. We had three classes in primary school, one, two and three, all in the same room that had about ten students in the class. There were also many classes in secondary school, all of which were in the same house and room. In middle school, the groups were larger, over 30, and also in upper secondary school. But I must say that I have been in such a happy position that I have never noticed the bullying of school on my own school trip and on my school day. Teachers were very strict and good about allowing things, but they probably would have intervened right away, and there was a little different system at the time of the world. Today, teachers do not have very great opportunities to intervene in school bullying and even if they do, not all teachers do it for some reason. It is very serious that today there is so much bullying at school. We have all the good systems and such themes in our schools to try to prevent bullying, which have partly been effective but not enough. That is why a really strong attitude education is needed, and homes too play a very important role, parents, that when that child goes to school, they have been given prescribed instructions and then those limits. The child likes that there are limits that are not crossed. However, school bullying is taking place. And indeed, if attitude education is not enough, of course there are laws, and if they are not enough, they must be tightened up. Representative Elovaara has made a very good bill to move the school bully from school to school, so that it is not always the victim who is being transferred. This is a worthy bill, but at the same time it must also be remembered that it is important to pay attention to the fact that it is a mobile bully — so that it does not continue to be bullied or that he is not tempted in the next place — also gets help. Mr Elovaara and Mr Heinonen made a number of good points about why this really needs to be tackled very strongly now. It affects a person's life so strongly, and we don't want to see more bullying and bullying in school, but we want zero tolerance, bullying needs to be contained. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u206	Madam President! In Finland, as in many other countries, bullying at school is indeed a difficult problem to eradicate. Bullying is never the cause of the bullied. The bully will find the cause of anything, such as sex, health, sexual orientation, skin color, appearance, poverty, or speech. Also, bullying at school is never harmless. It causes serious long-term psychosocial effects, at its worst, including suicidal thoughts, anxiety and depression. It always has an effect that weakens self - esteem. Bullying can also trigger insurmountable feelings of hatred in an uncertain and unstable young person and cause serious consequences, at worst radicalisation. Indeed, the only right option is zero tolerance, as we heard in the previous speech. The responsibility for a secure atmosphere of attitude lies with us all. Zero tolerance starts from intervention in every inappropriate debate and situation. It requires of us all the courage to act and defend another person. Mr Elovaara's initiative is very good. I myself have signed it, and I really hope that this initiative will turn into practical action.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u207	Mr President! Bullying at school is an extremely serious matter. How many times does a child’s mind have to deal with the rejection of another child, iva, open hostility? What are the self - image and school memories of the little person who receives ridicule and discrimination every day? Bullying can happen that the bullies begin to believe their bullies. A bullied person may think that there is nothing good about him and that it is justifiable for him to be bullied, especially if even adults do not intervene. Of course, it is obvious that bullying is not because there is something wrong with being bullied. Bullying never says anything about temptation. It's only about the bully. It is important to remember that bullying is always wrong and should not be tolerated. It is up to us decision-makers and authorities to ensure that bullying does not interfere with anyone's schooling. A key change in this bill to the Basic Education Act would be a new line whereby the bully can be transferred to another school. The bill seeks to facilitate the transfer of a student who causes particularly serious mental or physical harm to another pupil to another place of teaching by bullying. This is the message that if you really get to the point where one of you has to change schools, let it be a bully. It is inconceivable that if bullying cannot be dealt with otherwise than by radical student transfer, it would be a victim who would go to another school. Of course, this does not preclude the bully from being left without support. Of course, there must be measures for both of them to benefit from. It is important to support the growth and development of each child and young person individually. When dealing with this subject, it is good to remember that parents always have the primary responsibility for education. I am therefore concerned that the authority of an adult is disappearing altogether. An example of what happened at school in Janakkala: there a 10-year-old strangled a 9-year-old unconscious at school. According to the school principal's statement, there's been an increase in violence in the schools. If an adult can't control the order, everyone's safety is at stake. How can an adult interfere with school bullying without authority? We must require the guardian to be responsible for the conduct of the child. One student in the class can terrorize the whole education and the comfort and safety of other students. I therefore believe that if the teacher fails to discipline the student during the school day, the parents should be obliged to take the child home. I made a written question about this. This is what we do in Switzerland. I know because my sister's there as a teacher. Each family is an individual, and the life situations of each family vary, and society must guarantee individual support, and if parents do not have the means, a family worker, for example, could support the parent in this most valuable task of raising the child. Here Mr Heinonen raised this serious case of bullying an 8-year-old who is afraid to go to school, he is afraid of school trips, bullying is everyday. Jari Andersson, headmaster of Sylvala School in Sastamala, has received comments because he has intervened in bullying outside the school, which is incomprehensible. He's been getting comments on these cases since the Deputy Attorney General. It is absurd that if an eight-year-old comes to the principal to tell him that he is being bullied, the principal will answer: well, I can't interfere. In accordance with the Basic Education Act, Paragraph 29(7) states this, the school staff are obliged to inform the parents of what happened, but the case must not be interfered with. According to Andersson, the law is read so literally that no one dares to use common sense to help children. The writing of the law has made some operators even more cautious that there will be no prosecution, and quite a few can withstand the public pressure that will come from the cases. This serves only the bully; this gives power only to the bullies. We definitely need more disciplinary measures, and this bill from Elovaara is one of them. Today on the news: "The schoolboy beat one to the hospital — 30 other students followed next door and filmed with cell phones." How is it possible that 30 students use cell phones when someone else is being beaten to hospital? What's wrong with our atmosphere? In this case, too, we should take all these 30 students and say that it is understandable that you are not always afraid to intervene, but at least you have to get an adult to help you and ask the adult to intervene and tell you what is going on here. Well, we found a brave high school girl. He had seen this situation from the window and ran in. As I said, we need a change of attitude, we need courage and, above all, we need tools for teachers so that we can act in this valuable task that we have been given, that is, education. Thank you for this initiative, thank you to Mrs Heinos for these initiatives, and I hope I myself will be able to get an answer to this written question. We need to make a proper package so that we can get this under control, because this bullying is not a natural phenomenon. It can be influenced, it can be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u208	Madam President! I would like to express my warmest thanks to the representatives and the Bureau and the secretariat who are here at this time so that we can deal with this bill. I would like to thank Mr Heino, Mrs Elomaa, Mr Pelko and Mr Huhtasaar, and perhaps other speakers, for taking the floor on this issue which has raised the citizens' movement. I dare say that the initiative is supported by public opinion, and it has been a pity to note from the public expert speeches that I have read in the media that they have not studied the content of the bill and the concrete presentation. I am going to say this openly here. It must be made clear that the initiative does not create an automatic, but also introduces into the Basic Education Act the option of being a bully who, if necessary, changes schools, because we are all of the opinion that the current practice in Finland is unfair. There should already be several adults in line to answer why the situation has not been resolved in the event of a child or young person having to change schools. The problem is, in particular, sparsely populated areas where there is no alternative to a school nearby, and I hope that municipalities and cities will take responsibility for the situation that has been bullied, even if they pay the cost of being bullied for school trips. I have received messages from parents and grandparents that parents of a child who has been bullied will have to pay for long school trips. This isn't right. I would also like to point out that both of them need aftercare, help and support, both bullied and bullied, that is clear, and I would also like to point out that school shooters are often brutally bullied in school. I'm worried about the next school shooting.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u209	Mr President! The bill signed by Mr Elovaara and a number of other representatives addresses a very important issue. Bullying can lead to a life-long trauma, of which previous speakers have already presented some pertinent descriptions and examples today. It is therefore necessary to take zero tolerance in schools for bullying, as has already been said here today from the mouth of several representatives. The purpose of this bill is, therefore, to transfer, if necessary, a student who causes particularly serious mental or physical harm to another pupil. Today, as a rule, a victim of bullying is being transferred to another school, which I do not think is right. The objective of the bill is therefore very welcome, and at the same time it sends the right message that measures to stop bullying rather than the victim of bullying should be targeted at the bully. The bill would also make it easier for the bully to recover from bullying in a familiar environment, as has also been stated in the explanatory memorandum to this bill. It is also important that the causes behind the bully’s conduct are also seriously addressed. Mr President! I myself have signed up to this bill, and I hope it will receive a very successful committee reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u210	Mr President! One might think of bullying at school as accepting the same kind of behavior toward adults, targeting ourselves as we can now target children. We would certainly not accept it, and so we cannot accept it when it comes to children. This bill, which I myself have signed, must be supported and in line with the election programmes previously asked in the Chamber. There is a goal of zero tolerance for bullying at school. The relevance of the initiative is demonstrated by the fact that it has more than 100 signatories, the majority of Parliament. And I hope that this state of will will will bring about a tangible change, regardless of whether the law is being implemented literally. However, the most important and central message in this matter is that bullying is not accepted and the reason for bullying is in the bully. Even though the bully is a child in this case and also needs help and protection, it must be remembered that the bully is the victim of the act. The law should facilitate the prevention of bullying, by no means make it more difficult. It is up to us as legislators to legislate to prevent bullying.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u211	Madam President! We've had a good conversation about bullying at school. In this debate, perhaps a small number of teachers have also been accused. I want to say it myself, and I want to believe that most of our teachers want to tackle bullying at school and do good work to tackle bullying at school. As a former teacher, I know that some of the bullying is very difficult to detect and there are situations of this kind, that is, young people, children do the bullying in places where the teacher or the eye of an adult may not see it. One of the hardest, the hardest, is also such a bullying of being left alone, to be left out. It is often — at least as a teacher myself — the most difficult thing to do. How did you get someone who didn't naturally get into that crowd? One must remember that a bully can also be a teacher, and one must remember that a bully can also be a teacher. There must also be sufficient means to deal with these situations, and I would also like to underline that in almost all situations the bully also needs help, which means that he must not be left alone under any circumstances. Mr President! I have appreciated your work very much, and I personally hope that you will also take an active stand on these legislative initiatives signed by more than 100 Members of Parliament. It has been observed that the legislative initiatives of more than a hundred MPs are being buried in our committees without having to deal with them. More than half of the MPs elected by the Finnish people have also signed this bill, and I think it is right and reasonable for the committees to deal with these. The main rule should be at least the same as the citizens' initiative. This is the result of an extremely large number of MPs elected by the Finnish people, and when we look at it in terms of the number of votes we can talk about a significantly larger number than in the citizens' initiative if we indirectly look at it. And I hope that the Council of Presidents will hold a serious debate on the need for these legislative initiatives of more than a hundred signatures to be dealt with in Parliament with the dignity and thoroughness they deserve.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u212	Mr President! School bullying should always be addressed and seen what the situation is. When I was a little elementary school kid, I remember very well how I was bullied on many occasions by a high-school boy: For once he told me to lick that school's iron gate and I got caught in it. All sorts of things like this happened. But the bullying, it wasn't interfered at all. Well, that's all right. Quite a number of years went on. In the year I came to this Parliament, that man was in prison, by the way. In that situation of bullying at school, it was already apparent that it would lead to something. It led to something, and that situation was visible from childhood onward, that it might lead to something. Well, I'm glad I did well, but this boy didn't make it out of his role. This bullying at school: all the initiatives and things that are being done with it are very good. And thank you for this initiative. I am one of the many signatories to this initiative, and I wish this initiative success. The initiative would give schools a better backrest, if necessary, to move the bully. The bully has not, in principle, earned additional punishment for changing schools in addition to everything else he has suffered. On the other hand, there may be a lot of bullies and the bully has also lost confidence in teachers’ ability to handle the matter, so changing schools to the bullies is not always a bad thing. However, the objective of the initiative is to make it more possible to find a solution. I think it is essential to remember, and I would also like to remember that this is not a disciplinary measure. Article 36 of the Basic Education Act In addition, disciplinary measures are provided for in the post-session, written warning and early school leaving. Of course, bullying would continue to be punished separately, but it would be a solution to the problem of bullying. It must also be remembered that school bullying has increasingly shifted to the electronic environment. Posts, pictures and videos that demean the student and sometimes the teacher can be shared in instant communication chains or on public internet servers. Changing a physical school does not necessarily help with such bullying. Strengthening good parenting and teacher authority are also important ways to prevent bullying. Bullying can leave a lifetime of scars. Surely many of us, either from our own experience or from the experience of someone close to us, know just how bad it can be to remember bullying situations after decades. If the government can contribute to the fight against bullying, then it is also an obligation to do so. I really hope that, in this way too, things can be taken forward in order to improve matters of bullying.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u213	Mr President! Representative Mäkelä here raised our role as adults well, and it is worth considering and thinking about how to root out bullying if we do not manage to root it out even among adults. How can we demand polite behavior from children, acceptance of diversity and respect for human dignity if we cannot set an example ourselves? If we allow racist screams and attacks on different citizens for adults, how can we expect our children to behave any better? Representative Maijala has just raised the issue of social media, and social media has really made bullying, second understatement and threats easier. It is easy to play the king of the hill anonymously and faceless by sharing threats such as death and rape. Adult activities are based entirely on the same behaviors as those of an uncertain but defiant student who wants to show his courage but does not dare to do so by his own actions, but by bullying the weak or those who defend the weak. Every suggestive and racist debate feeds an unhealthy atmosphere of attitude and lowers the threshold for bullying.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u214	Madam President! Mr Pelkonen's speech was addressed and also sends an important message to us adults about how we use our words, whether on live television or on social media. We should always see each other as human beings. I would also like to thank Mr Heino for raising the issue of the handling of legislative initiatives, particularly when they receive broad support, i.e. the signature of more than 100 MPs. I am concerned about how the further examination of the bill will take place. I hope that there will be a serious debate on the initiative in committee, and if it does not succeed, I hope that the Government and Parliament will, for example, consider this theme in the centenary spirit of Finland next year, because the President in particular has encouraged us representatives to go to schools to talk to children and young people about using the means and instruments we have. However, I would still like to see this legally resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u215	Madam President! We have a problem with the law. The Basic Education Act, Article 35 of the Law, does not explicitly prohibit students or students from harassing, harassing or otherwise treating others inappropriately. The law requires students only to conduct themselves properly. I've had quite a lot of experience with this. My three sons have all been bullied, and the last one has changed schools three times in the past year. The bully has always been the one who has been innocent, and my son has most often been accused of causing it. If this bill goes through, it will of course not change it in any way, because there are always many bullies and there is only one school in many places, so this school move is difficult, but I hope that something will be done about it. I know what it's like to have a boy who doesn't want to go to bed tonight and sits in bed, and when I ask why you're sitting, he says I'm sitting because it's gonna take longer to get there in the morning so I don't have to go to school right away. That's what bullying is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u216	I would like to briefly thank the representatives for their civil courage in this matter, for having also heard personal experiences of themselves or their family circle on this subject, and I think it deserves praise.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u217	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u218	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! "I want to tell a story to this important issue, which has a profound impact on I got bullied from first grade. I don't know why. I was very shy and quiet, i.e. an easy target for bullying. Bullying was commonplace, and my self - esteem was trampled into the cracks of the floor. Even children as young as you can have brutal behavior toward others and the ability to hurt mentally." "I was also, in principle, the first and My situation was in itself a little peculiar that I was in a small country school and the bully was my own teacher.” "In that sense, bullying, naming and leaving outside is still worse than physical bullying,because there is If physically bullied, there will be at least some bruises and scratches." "Out of this class, we're going to go to the Jassitting Club. Bullying was mental and physical. Things were ruined, stolen, hidden." "To those who tell their stories. I myself am unable to comprehend the cruelty that can be inflicted on others. My dear brother has lost a lot when he's bullied at school. It is terribly difficult to try to show someone that he is as valuable as everyone else, even though he has had to think otherwise at school for years." The evening newspaper also wrote: "I was in school in third grade, and I was constantly bullied for several months from being a little round. The teachers did not intervene, even though they saw what happened. One time, when that bully started beating on me, I snapped. I grabbed the bully by the ear and rolled the circle for so long. I got detention, curator visits, and a talk with the principal. It wasn't a good behavioral number. The bully received no consequences." "I was left out of my friends' groups,not played at primary school, laughed, mocked with clothes,not wanted to be close to me. The bullying that lasted for about four years continued to some extent in secondary school. In primary school, bullying every day caused panic disorder and depression that broke out at the age of 18 and is still on medication at the age of thirty." Here, Mr President, some of the stories I have collected from online debates and magazines, the stories and writings of the bullies. Pursuant to Section 29 of the Basic Education Act and Section 21 of the Upper Secondary Education Act and Section 28 of the Vocational Education Act, students and students are entitled to a safe study environment. This obliges municipalities, schools, educational institutions to ensure that violence and bullying are prevented in schools and schools. However, the Finnish law does not specifically provide for school bullying as a criminal offence. This has contributed to the fact that bullying is not always considered a crime. Often, among students and, unfortunately, among some teachers, insulting one another, for example, is thought only of bad behavior. The various forms of bullying can be found in the law, but only in the names of other crimes, such as "illegal threat", "torture", "abuse of liberty", "honor," "forced", "punishment" and so on. For example, the law provides for punishment for insulting and slandering someone else. In addition, incitement to these crimes and assistance are also crimes. For example, bullying often meets one of the above-mentioned offences, and all of them are punishable by Finnish law. The law therefore provides for different forms of bullying in schools to be punished, but there are shortcomings in the practical implementation of the law. In actual fact, however, the law does not know about bullying at school as its own crime title. The age of criminal liability in Finland is 15 years. Thus, the 15-year-old can also be sentenced to punishment for the crime. So the bully may be sentenced if he is 15 years old. If more than one bully is guilty of bullying, they are all legally punished as offenders, the instigator can also be convicted as offender. In the case of persons under 15 years of age, the age limit for criminal responsibility is not met, so in their case the matter will be dealt with with with the municipal social services. On the other hand, liability for damages has no age limit, so a bully under the age of 15 can also be sentenced to pay compensation to the victim of bullying who has been harmed. When school bullying is not explicitly included in the law as a separate crime title, the definition of bullying often remains unclear. When I was a teacher, I always started a school year in the autumn so that together we considered what bullying was, and together with the students we defined what bullying is, what it means, what it means. It was quite common for youths to say that bullying at school is constant. That is one good argument for it, but one good argument was, in my opinion, the idea raised by many young people and children that bullying will turn into bullying at school as the other announces that hey, I don't like this, stop. Then, if the same activity continues, it fills the signs of bullying at school. There are differences between students, teachers and parents in what we consider to be bullying, what we regard as bullying and not bullying at school. However, clear definitions already exist for school bullying. School bullying is a planned, deliberate activity designed to hurt one person either mentally or physically. Bullying can be direct or indirect. School bullying is also not limited to violence between pupils, but teachers may also be involved in bullying and, unfortunately, sometimes also bullying. In the role of victim or bully among children and young people, many experience occasional bullying, but for actual bullying at school, the act can only be named when it fills those signs of bullying at school. Mr President! I have submitted this bill for the first time to Parliament in October 2012. At that time, the law did not proceed and I was told that we had the means to intervene in these matters. So, what happened? School bullying has continued. Today we have had a very nuanced debate on how much bullying we have today. In other words, I have now renewed this bill which amends Chapter 21 of the Criminal Code so as to introduce a new Article 7b on bullying in schools and to define these principles. Some MPs asked about 2012 and now that I have not asked for more signatures. I wanted to make that clear here, too, that I did not ask for them because this criminalisation of school bullying has, in part, been a technically difficult project, and I have wanted to bring it up to the debate now. But with this debate and this bill, I want to raise this serious issue to a whole new level of discussion. We need these very small acts, we need more opportunities and ways for teachers to deal with the problems of peace at work and others, but when they are not enough, I think it is good that there is still a chance for parents, those who are tempted and others to do so. One thesis on the criminalisation of school bullying was completed in 2012. Krista Vierimaa did this pro thesis, and it was an inspiration in part that I wanted to make this entry also in Finnish law. A study by Krista Vierimaa found that 73 percent of bullies reported that they would have stopped bullying if it had been a crime if they had clearly known that bullying at school was a crime. Mr President! I hope that the bill will now re-open the debate and debate in the committee in this Chamber. I hope that in the end it will lead to this too being used as a last resort to remedy a serious problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u219	Madam President! Every student, child and youth must have the right to attend school without fear of being bullied. Every year we have far too many so-called silent losses in Finland when a bullied child or young person no longer feels worthy of living his or her life. We can't afford to lose any kids. Youth’s self-esteem must be protected in every way possible. Schools, parents and us decision-makers have a duty to communicate to young people that Finland is an open and tolerant country whose success depends on education and internationality. Teachers and schools must be given better opportunities to address bullying situations. There must be absolute zero tolerance for bullying and racism in schools, as we have heard on several occasions in the Chamber in connection with the previous legislative initiative. I also warmly support the initiative taken by Mr Heinonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u220	Mr President! The bill by Mr Heinonen and others starts with the problem of bullying from the point of view of the income that bullying should be recorded in the criminal code under its own criminal title, with clear definitions of what bullying means. This is in the sense that, as has been mentioned, many of these acts are, in principle, already criminalised at the moment, but there may often be problems with proof that such a crime has been committed. It’s easy to have that conversation that it was just bad behavior or not. Now, if bullying itself were recorded as a crime in criminal law, it would be clearer and perhaps easier to tackle. It is also true that a large proportion of those who may be guilty of these acts would be below the threshold of criminal liability for their years of life, but still the fact that society takes these acts seriously may also give them the knowledge that they were guilty of an act that is not right but wrong. The fact that a teacher could be a victim of this crime would also contribute to improving the safety of teachers at work. Another good thing about the proposal is that the mass media have been taken into account. Young people and children today live in social media, and bullying there can be very total, that is, if such definitions are to be made, it is clear that this electronic aspect of bullying in particular must be taken into account. I personally support this bill at the level of principle. It is worth picking up the good ideas and ideas here. I have not noticed that this is being signed and I do not remember whether or not it has been asked to do so, but I do say that I am in favour of this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u221	Mr President! The objective of the bill is right, to resist bullying and to require the school bully to be liable for his or her actions. However, as a lawyer, I wondered what the situation would be with this new article. The various acts already defined in this bill as bullying are punishable by the penal code, each in its own article, and in many cases more severe penalties are imposed than the fine imposed in the bill. For example, the proposed first paragraph defines bullying in schools as, among other things, physical violence or harming health. However, these acts are already laid down in Articles 5, 6 and 7 of Chapter 21 of the Criminal Code. In the case of abuse, which is punishable by a fine or imprisonment for a maximum period of two years. Even in a mild form, there is the same penalty as the one proposed here, i.e. the fine. The adoption of a new criminal code could certainly send a significant message from the legislator against bullying at school. That's the big deal. But will the signal be limited if it means that there will be little or no convictions, because this is almost always a person under the age of 15? A criminal procedure when it is not a primary and not always the best way to tackle bullying. Moreover, systematic bullying takes place elsewhere than in schools, such as at the workplace. True, many bullies are also teachers. On the other hand, bullying at school, if the parties are children or young people, is also a serious form of bullying. However, I consider it important that the objectives of the initiative and the problems of bullying at school are raised in all possible forums. There must never be any message from the government in this respect other than absolute opposition to and condemnation of bullying.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u222	Mr President! I believe that the Heinonen initiative will make it possible to discuss this issue in an excellent way. We should have defined limits for people's abuse, regardless of whether it happens inside the walls of the school, on the way to school or in other environments. In that sense, the word'school bullying' is a little problematic, and I really hope that the Heinonen bill will move forward, because I believe that this more precise debate on the need for a large toolbox with soft tools, but also these strict instruments, is necessary. It was also good that Mr Mäkelä brought up the bullying of teachers. This is equally a serious problem, and in this debate we must take into account the ability of teachers and the resources of schools to respond to the problems encountered in schools, because schools are small-scale societies. It shows all the phenomena that are common in society. Thank you, Mr Maijala, for your excellent speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u223	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Majala gave a good speech. I would recall that you spoke very much the same way in 2012, and I will sign very far these questions which you raised. The problem of proof is certainly what is absolutely essential here too. Of course, the same evidence problem exists if someone else, already a criminal case or a crime, is being filled. But this study alone already shows that three out of four have said that I would not have bullied if I had known that bullying at school was a crime. That is the message we should convey and communicate. I don't expect it myself, and I don't even want those punishments... The punishments here are not what is my greatest inspiration for doing this, but that the bullying in school should end through the message. Mrs Majala asked about the situation in which this law would be used. This would be used as a last resort. When nothing else has helped, as I said in my speech, then there would still be a chance when the school has done everything else possible, whether by school, by itself being bullied, or by the parents of the people who have been bullied, to intervene in it also in this most difficult way. The criminal procedure, is it then the best way to deal with it, Mrs Maijala also asked. Neither do I, but it is a last resort that is used when nothing else helps. When I know that this debate is also being listened to, I would like briefly to go over that section, which is new, that is, Chapter 21 of the Criminal Code, 'Inspections of life and health', new Article 7a. It says this school bullying: "Anyone orsome of the acts referred to in paragraph2 of this Article arerepeated to cause damage, suffering or fear of harm,or to threaten the injured, and these acts occurred in the school In other words, if it fills the signs of abuse and there is a more severe punishment, then it will go to it, but otherwise this can be used. "School bullying is: (1) to commit physical violence to or without harming one’s health in such a way as to cause pain to another or to cause another’s unconscious or similar condition; (2) the presentation of false knowledge or insinuation of another in such a way as to cause injury or suffering to, or contempt for, the injured person, or, other than that previously mentioned in this paragraph, the contempt of the other; (3) the unfair presentation of information, insinuation or image of one's private life through the use of the mass media, or otherwise by making available to a large number of people such action as to cause harm or suffering to, or contempt for, the injured person; 4) forcing one to do something, to tolerate or not to do something, by violence or threats of injustice; (5) Whereas the imposition of a threat, other than that referred to in Article 1 of Chapter 31, of a person's financial advantage to which the offender or the person on whose behalf he or she is acting has no legal right; (6) raising a weapon against another person or otherwise threatening another person with a crime in circumstances where the person threatened has a legitimate reason for fearing that personal security or property is in serious danger; (7) to deprive one of its freedom of movement in an unjust manner by closing in, tying up, transporting or otherwise removing another from its environment; (8) the destruction or damage of another property without entitlement or unauthorised destruction, corruption, concealment or concealment of a file or other storage stored by means of a data medium to harm another; (9) the theft of movable property from the possession of another; (10) the use of another movable property or fixed machinery or equipment without authorisation; (11) Disturbing the peace of one's home by making phone calls or sending messages to a mobile phone." So these are recorded here, and in this bill I have also been assisted by this graduate Krista Vierimaa, and this has been signed by Hanna Halmeenpää from the Greens, Laura Huhtasaari from Peru, Rami Lehto from the People's Republic of Finland, Ben Zyskowicz from the Assembly and already former MP Carl Haglund from the RKP, and since then several MPs have also shown support for this initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u224	Mr President! Mr Heinonen's speech was strong and impressive when he presented this bill. The fact that bullying can also be mental and as harmful as physical bullying is indeed so true and, at the same time, dangerous because it cannot be so easily proved. I would like to thank Mr Heino for the fact that, also with his legislative initiative, the measures taken to achieve zero tolerance in school bullying will arise in the debate. Our education system is appreciated. We ourselves appreciate it very high, even abroad it is highly valued. Here in Finland we should get that thing into everyone's mind that it's not cool, it's not cool to tease, it's very valuable to appreciate that other person. Our country is capable of achieving zero tolerance in school bullying.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u225	Mr President! Many children are now in bed and are waiting for sleep. Many children are currently afraid in their bed for their school day tomorrow. We have a responsibility to these children. Let us hope that these talks can also be put into practice in some way and that we can help these children to find out that tomorrow night, in their own bed, they will not have to cry over the next day of school. Thank you Elovaara and Heinos for taking these initiatives. All we have to do is think about more similar measures to remedy the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u226	Mr President! It was a good thing that there were more specific content of the law and all that bullying can contain. Last but not least, we are living in a changing world where there have been many other instruments alongside mobile phones that we use, and online bullying is a new form. I believe that we will also possibly need to look at the legislation in terms of how we protect people, children and young people in particular, from this type of bullying, as it is easier and more possible to communicate and publicly desecrated. This is probably one of the challenges we're going to face.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u227	Mr President! Representative Heinonen and others' bill to set up school bullying as a crime defined in the Criminal Code complements very well today's debate in the Chamber on bullying in the evening. Of course, it is a pity that only a handful of representatives will be present in this Chamber at this time when we are dealing with this important issue. This bill is particularly positive in terms of its clarity. Mr Heinonen went through the definitions of bullying in detail in his previous speech — thanks to him for that. Mr President! This bill sends a serious message to individuals who are harassing. We must ensure that society and legislators show that bullying at school is, and is considered to be, a very, very reprehensible matter and we in this House will continue to take serious action on this matter, which is, unfortunately, very little addressed in society. I very much welcome this bill, and I would like to thank Mr Heino for bringing it to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u228	Mr President! I would also like, for my part, to thank Mr Elovaara in particular today, who has done a great deal of work to eradicate school bullying from Finnish society, but also all of you colleagues who have participated in this debate today. My own clear will is that the message of society is unambiguously clear, that bullying is not accepted, is being tackled and there are adequate means to tackle it. Today, we have heard speeches from colleagues, among others, which have also included personal experiences of bullying. To wait to not fall asleep, not to pass the night, because the next morning would not come so quickly, is a message that almost makes the corner of the eye wet now. I hope that in the future no child will have to experience the cruelest bullying in school, which, unfortunately, will continue to happen in our schools tomorrow. Mr President! Thank you all for this debate. I hope that in committee these legislative initiatives will receive the same good and thorough reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u229	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. Amending budget initiatives will be sent to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-17-ps-116.u230	Mr President! I see it had been a quick finger. There is a third amending budget in this debate, and of course I am still eager to discuss the economy, but there are no opposition representatives here. Of course, it would have been nice for the Social Democrats, for example, to have been here when it came to dealing with the amending budget, but when there are only representatives of the government party here, I think I will be content with just such a brief statement that, fortunately, there is now a slight improvement in the economy. So a small turn has taken place, and it is hoped that it will be strengthened in the beginning of the year. We will certainly still have those debates at the end of this year when the opposition is working here too, so let us continue the debate then. It's just good night. - Thank you.
