ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u1	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u2	Mr President! When the government assessed the basis for its budget proposal, employment and support for it became the focus. And as one of the key elements to support employment, to strengthen the underlying domestic demand and to improve the conditions for employment, a tax solution was made in the context of the Competitiveness Pact, a tax solution of 515 million, making a genuine tax reduction for all income categories by 0.6 percentage points. In addition, the tax bases will be subject to an inflation check to prevent automatic tax evasion due to the income level and cost increase. I believe that this is a well-founded line in a situation in which we have not managed to get our exports to the desired extent. Our still weak growth rate of about one percentage point is based on domestic demand, domestic growth, and with this reduction in the taxation of earned income from work, the government wants to give advance support — in line with the Government Programme — to domestic demand, household purchasing power, and hence employment that is important to us. In the background, it is worth noting that, as early as last year, in accordance with the Government Programme, we made a reduction of 450 million in earnings for people on low and middle incomes, which is significant both in order to lower the threshold for receiving work, to encourage work, to reduce the tax wedge on labour, and also from the point of view of fairness and incomelessness. In addition, reforms affecting the taxation of earned income, which can be found in the budget, are an increase of 5 percentage points in the compensation rate for the household allowance, i.e. 50% instead of 45% of the work allowance, and 20% of the wages paid for the work entitled to the household allowance could be reduced instead of the current 15%. These are corrections in the right direction. EUR 40 million will be spent on this. This is intended to support domestic demand for small services and to encourage small-scale work and the fight against the informal economy. This can also slightly improve the ability of households to provide additional assistance needed, for example, for services for the elderly, for home services. Further fundamental changes: The health care provided by the employer to its former employee for a period of 6 months after the termination of the employment relationship would be provided as a tax-free benefit. This is related to the kiky entry, according to which the employer is obliged to arrange occupational health care 6 months after the termination of the employment relationship in certain circumstances. In addition, the Government's proposal includes technical checks on the retirement age of voluntary supplementary pensions. Mr President! In my opinion, the government's tax policy is based on domestic employment, employment, purchasing power. It is a fair solution when we look at the key elements of tax policy as a whole. And I would also like to point out that this same reduction of around 0.6 percentage points is also extended to pension income.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u3	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, the tax rate for all employees will fall by around 0.5 per cent next year. All in all, tax reductions amount to 515 million, and, as the Minister of Finance Orpo said, pensioners and the most low-income people who do not pay taxes have been taken into account in this tax package. In this way, the government will ensure that the purchasing power of pensioners is strengthened and that they have the same reduction as employees. Since the lowest income earners do not pay any tax at all, in addition to this reduction, the lowest incomes will be allocated a reduction of around EUR 30 million. This preparation is currently under way, and I believe that in this way we will be able to guarantee that even in these difficult times the purchasing power of every Finnish citizen will be even slightly strengthened. The competitiveness pact, which was finally agreed after a long twist and after negotiations, thanks to it, will reduce the tax burden on labour by some EUR 100 million. This reduction is therefore mainly focused on higher incomes, which is why the government has allocated its own tax reduction, which is approximately EUR 290 million, to those on low and medium incomes, which, for them too, will lead to this tax reduction of around 0.5 percentage points in all income categories. I personally consider this to be an excellent and good thing. In this way, purchasing power will be increased, domestic demand will be increased, while at the same time removing barriers to employment and also reducing the tax wedge. That is certainly a good thing at a difficult time like this in the economy. The reduction in income tax therefore compensates for the future additional burden in the competitiveness agreement, which is passed on from employers to employees, but not only compensates, but also reduces the tax rate of every Finnish citizen by about 0.5 percentage points. I believe that this is a good solution and strengthens the line of work that the government has wanted to put on the agenda this season. This same idea is also reinforced by the household allowance. As early as last week in the debate on the budget, I did not understand the criticism of the reduction in the household allowance, because in this way many unemployed, many entrepreneurs, many self-employed people received more work in this country and the reduction in household income has certainly been one of the most effective new employment-enhancing solutions in recent years. I think it is good that such an opportunity will continue to exist and will be improved. Mr President! The tax solution also includes other tax changes, which I personally very much welcome as regards the transition to VAT-based and entrepreneurial deduction. But today, when the main point of the debate is in these income tax solutions for 2017, I will conclude by thanking you for ensuring that the purchasing power is strengthened in such a way that it is directed specifically at all those who work and not forgetting pensioners either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u4	However, let us go over the list of speakers for a moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u5	Mr President! That's right. That's right. The Sipilä Government will continue its determined work for employment and entrepreneurship and well-being. Indeed during the last parliamentary term, when no other solutions could be made, taxation was tightened very heavily, and of course it has weakened Finland's competitiveness. I very much welcome the fact that there is a social pact, and that is how we can now actually reduce the tax burden on labour. However, the main problem with taxation is the strict taxation of labour in Finland. It creates incentive traps and also, of course, takes away purchasing power. It is also a good thing that the government, as defined, promotes entrepreneurship and now brings the individual companies, the business names, the agricultural activity, the pursuit of forestry a little closer to what the public limited companies received during the last parliamentary term in taxation. Indeed, Minister Orpo has set up a working group to consider the measures to be taken in the field of business taxation. That is good, but I think we need a broader road map of taxation, a wider group of experts who are thinking more about tax reform in Finland, so that we can prefer entrepreneurship, especially employment and labour taxation, but also justice. I believe that this government has taken reasonable account of the solutions. In this way, by creating a road map of this kind of taxation for the next parliamentary term, we could reform taxation in the way that is necessary in the context of intense competition, in order to: In this respect, Finland will also promote employment and a new rise in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u6	Mr President! The government must be commended for the fundamental fact that labour taxation is being reduced. The left-wing opposition, of course, in this Chamber has declared loudly that it has been misunderstood. I cannot understand the Left's belief that taxation alone would bring prosperity to this country. A concrete example of this was seen in connection with the reduction of the car tax. In the shadow budget of the SDP, the money that could have been collected by that tax was already spent a couple of times, but it turned out that the fall in taxes brought more tax revenue than it was before the invoice. Sometimes less tax means more income. It should be noted, therefore, that this false accusation of shutting down is actually a sign in this Chamber that the government's line is correct: when the left-wing opposition criticises, it is a sign that the right decisions have been taken. In my opinion, this solution could have been better, also a little more balanced with regard to those on low and middle incomes, and I hope that in the future the government will adopt policies that take into account not only these tax reductions but also the purchasing power of those on low and medium incomes. In addition to social justice, it is also important for domestic demand and the functioning of the domestic market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u7	Madam President! As has been said here, income tax will be reduced by EUR 515 million for all income categories and also for pensioners. There has also been concern about how to take the low incomes into account. Well, that too, of course, was the answer given by the Minister of Finance, namely 30 million reductions in payments, which will then be seen here later on how best to target them. But what is significant is that, for the first time in seven years, income tax will be reduced. It is a very important signal for society as a whole, for employees and also then for entrepreneurs, when it comes to the payment-based value added tax and the deduction of entrepreneurs, which will also come in this context. They will receive the thanks of small and medium-sized enterprises. Another important aspect in this respect is the increase in the household allowance to 50%. That too has received a great deal of commendation. True Finns understand the job, the entrepreneur’s everyday — the Labour Party without socialism.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u8	Madam President! It is precisely the government's tax solution and the value choices made by the government, and it has, of course, saddened to note that, despite the speeches, the calculations of Parliament's information service are now sadly and sadly showing the fact that this government's tax solution as a whole will give the low-income one little and the high-income one much more. In other words, when reference was made to these working parties, it is so, listen, that some low-income nanny gets a couple of tens and a very high-income manager gets more than a hundred tax cuts. Contrary to what the previous speaker of the convention testified here, the purchasing power of the pensioner was sad to see
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u11	Mr. Harakka.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u12	Mr President! The government boasts that it has given tax reductions to people with low and middle incomes. However, it should be noted that the government, through its own tax measures, also reduces taxation for the most high incomes. The tax limit for the upper income category will be reduced in this economic situation, in these terms, by 0.25 percentage points, at the same time as the purchasing power of small pensions will decrease. It is quite unique how this government takes care of its most wealthy 1% interests
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u17	Now it's possible to have a debut. I'll ask you to report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u18	Mr President! There has already been a good debate on the ground, which I shall briefly comment on. Mrs Viitanen told us about many of the issues of her grief, and I am very empathetic because your grief has certainly been very long. Let us remember, for example, the last parliamentary term when the corporation tax was reduced by hundreds of millions, which only resulted in us not getting more domestic demand and purchasing power, but only large companies getting rich, while VAT was increased, when suddenly the low-income ones, the most vulnerable, had to pay for bringing down taxes on large companies. I understand that you experienced grief, and I shared that grief at the time. We should also mention this point made by Haraka that labour taxation must be reduced, with particular emphasis on the low and middle income. This is what we have been doing since the beginning of this year when the reduction in labour income was increased, and we have focused specifically on low and middle incomes. Finally, the EUR 30 million package, which the Minister has raised, is looking for a whole new innovation in this area.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u19	Madam President! This reduction in the competitiveness pact would have had an effect on high incomes and middle incomes, and the government fairly targeted the low incomes of this additional tax reduction and also pensioners. And now you have to wonder about this tax line of social democrats: when taxes are raised, progressive taxation is good enough. It is also valid when the daily care fees or fines are determined. Progressive taxation will be fine then. But when taxes are reduced, the same percentage principle does not apply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u22	Mr President! Much has been said in this Chamber about the division and inequality of Finnish society. Now this government's tax proposal continues this government's policy: to discriminate, to divide Finnish society. It is quite clear that this government model will lighten taxation by means of the fact that the cook and midwife will receive more $20 in their hand, while, at the same time, a high-paid leader, as has been said here, with a salary of seven tons and above, will get about a hundred dollars in his hand, about five times more than this low-income worker will get. Do you, Minister Orpo, understand that your solution, your proposal, will increase the inequality of Finnish society, divide the Finnish people in a situation where integrity should be found?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u23	Mr President! Finland's tax progress really equals revenue. The government has set aside $30 million for this. It would also be aimed at improving the livelihoods and tax relief of the most low incomes, or how they are made. I also think it is worth the attention in this regard that this has been taken into account. I believe that the Social Democrats will not be satisfied until everyone in Finland has as much income. That's it. But yes, we also need to encourage people to work. Taxation of labour is a major tax problem in Finland. When we want to improve employment, I think that this is the right line, and the fact that pensioners are also being taken into account is the right line. Government policy is active. I would like to emphasise that in future we will need a bigger picture and then a tax road map, which will be done during this parliamentary term, so that Sipilä 2 can then reform taxation in a larger picture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u24	Madam President! It is a question of tax solutions, on the one hand, genuinely supporting employment, and, on the other hand, of the fact that, in these times when we have to compromise, the people need to feel that these tax solutions are fair. When it happens, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Orpo, that the most high incomes are taxed, then the government can afford to reduce the tax on millions of inheritances — that is to say, the tax on millions of inheritances in these times — then it is good to ask for its fairness. Here, for example, the Finns of Peru are now happily calculating the taxation of millions of inheritances, but at the same time, despite election promises, the gas tax is being increased and other things, so that this government's tax policy equation is very interesting. As far as these government tax solutions are concerned, the government is making this decision so that, for example, a reduction in earnings will benefit those who still earn 127,000. So in that way I could say that the government would do the act of man or woman if it were to correct this line of taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u25	Mr President! With regard to the Government's idea that, given that these effects of the Competitiveness Pact were the greatest in terms of high and medium incomes, it is worth making sure that the low incomes are given and improved in terms of purchasing power, it must be said that this was a very beautiful idea. Unfortunately, however, a beautiful idea is not always enough if it cannot be put into practice in such a way that this will happen. As we have now found out, the calculations of Parliament's information service show quite frankly that the lowest-income ones receive the least here. Their purchasing power will increase least not only in absolute terms, as would always be the case if it is the same percentage of the lower salary, but also in percentage terms. More than EUR 7000 will also benefit most from this in percentage terms. I do find this a strange choice of values. From the point of view of domestic demand, the increase in purchasing power for lower incomes would also be much better for employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u26	Mr President! It has now become clear from this budget what kind of policy the Labour Party is pursuing without socialism. It cuts out of all the poorest and gives tax reductions to high incomes, increases inequality and income inequality in this country. But I would like to hear from the Minister of Finance: from the point of view of promoting employment, how is it justified to implement these tax changes so that the biggest increase in purchasing power will be for those on high incomes who earn more than EUR 7000 a month? Would it not have been sensible, from the point of view of promoting employment, to target these tax reductions in terms of increasing the purchasing power of low incomes?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u29	Next, Mr Essayah, followed by the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u30	Madam President! The idea of improving purchasing power as a counterweight to the Kiky agreement is in itself a step in the right direction, but it must be borne in mind that at the same time the government is making these index cuts to social security, which affect more than EUR 200 million, and these cuts in social security tend to affect the most vulnerable people and also the most low-income people. There are families with children, there are many people with disabilities and there are also low-income pensioners who then suffer from these cuts in social security. The 5% increase in the household allowance is in itself a step in the right direction, but it must also remember, for example, that the lowest-income pensioners cannot benefit from this and receive care services. And I would have asked the Minister: have we considered the model that Sitra presented a few years ago, which stated that these low incomes could be targeted at, for example, service vouchers?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u31	Secretary Orphan, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u32	Madam President! I will start again with employment. That is the basis of our whole welfare, the broad employment rate, and we must do all our work so that it is aimed at employment. That is why, in accordance with its government programme, the government went out to seek a broad social pact, which I believe at least in principle enjoys support in the parties on the left as well. There was a kiky agreement which redefined these payment criteria so that the employee's medical contribution would be reduced and the daily allowance fee increased. The daily allowance fee is not deductible, the health insurance fee is. It follows that taxes were reduced in the largest income categories. I think it is now absolutely essential for the SDP to think about the Kiky agreement, what the social partners agreed and what the government took in order to improve employment. Do you accept or not? It is interesting to see you make your own shadow budget, whether you have this at the bottom. If you do not accept the Kiki agreement and this tax solution, I think it is a big statement from you. The Left Alliance has clearly said that you are not in favour of this kiky agreement — at least it is clear. But I expect of you, What is your position on this? If you agree to the Kiki agreement, you will accept the tax reductions that also go to higher income categories.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u35	Mr President! This government proposal will lead to increasing inequality. This 0.6 percentage points will mean: Mr President! I would like to state clearly that the SDP supports this competitiveness solution, that is clear. It would have been an alternative to coercive laws here in Parliament by the government and, once they were withdrawn by the government, a condition was created for a labour market solution to be achieved. Yes, it must be said that this time, too, the social partners saved the government from a number of problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u37	Madam President! So now we hear that the SDP accepts the Competitiveness Pact, appreciates the work done by the organisations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u41	Madam President! First of all, I am not quite sure whether we have the same bill here with Mr Kalmar. As I look at what the Minister for Finance has brought here, contrary to what Mr Kalmari says, the taxation of the most high incomes will be reduced most, both in absolute terms and in relative terms. Do you think we have the same papers, Congressman Squid?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u44	Secretary Orphan, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u45	Mr President! So these are parafiscal contributions, which are determined by that kiky agreement. I would think that even the SDP was concerned about this before this tax solution was made, that purchasing power would fall. That the government has to compensate for them. I remember you demanding it. So then you understood that these parafiscal charges affect purchasing power. And that is why I do not think it is worth changing the fact that those tax-like charges and taxes form a whole from the point of view of the employee what is left in hand. So it comes to everyone, everyone, evenly, to those who pay taxes on work, and for those with lower incomes, this compensation is applied elsewhere for EUR 30 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u46	Mr President! Minister Orpo said a very important point in his presentation: look at the tax package and this income-sharing effect. And when you do this, you start to worry. The guaranteed pensioner loses EUR 7 per month — that is to say, EUR 7 per month because of your decisions — the purchasing power is reduced by about 2%, the related nurse loses EUR 500 per year. Then you will give more money: on the average, nearly EUR 6000 to pharmacists for tax relief — almost EUR 6000. The best pharmacists will receive 25,000 euros as a result of your activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u48	Mr President! We are now hearing this age-old insistence on how the former Labour Party and the present Labour Party, apparently from different worlds of values, are taking this country forward. Yes, there are too many taxes in Finland. Now we have made clear the difference between our starting points. Finland has too many taxes, Finland has too many regulations. We want taxes removed, and they are taken at all levels, both through inheritance tax and through labour taxation. And when you yourself say that you would only like to target low incomes, this government has already done, has already increased the reduction in earnings that you could not do in four years — we have already done so. You will now start telling us that this should be done again, which you never did. Furthermore, it is recalled that your only major tax solution was precisely to increase VAT, the taxation of the most vulnerable people, and to reduce the taxation of large companies, that bankers and banks were allowed to distribute larger — larger — excessive — dividends. This is your line, and you will judge us afterwards. I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u49	Madam President! I am sure we will now have to remind you here how these tax-paying statistics are distributed. In other words, if you look at the proportion of income taxes paid by the state, in practice 12 per cent will pay 77 per cent of the government's income tax revenue at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u50	Madam President! The calculations of the Parliamentary Information Service are unrestrained.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u51	Madam President! Thus, the tax rate for all employees will be reduced by about half a per cent, including for pensioners. This increases purchasing power, increases domestic demand, removes barriers to employment and reduces the tax wedge. I think that is a good thing. And now that reference is made to this 30 million, where it has already been proven that it is missing from these opposition calculations that have been calculated by the Parliamentary Information Service, I would ask Minister Orpo: can you tell me a little bit about the elements of this 30 million, this reduction, which comes to the lowest incomes, could or will contain?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u53	Mr President! It is clear that the so-called poverty package of some 30 million is a good one, but it is not enough to compensate for the cuts in pensions, child supplements, student support, basic benefits and increases in payments. It is quite clear that it is not enough to compensate for it. The fact is that the income available to the poorest fifth will be reduced by the impact of the budget and this tax solution will lead to the greatest increase in the income of the most high-incomed. In other words, government policy increases income disparities: the lowest income is taken from the lowest incomes and the highest income is given to the highest incomes. This does not make sense either in terms of purchasing power or in terms of employment. But I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: can you promise me that the tax cuts that are now most targeted at high incomes will not cause any further cutbacks next year? It will not be the case that these tax reductions of more than half a billion will have to be compensated by cutting more from all the poorest?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u55	Mr President! Last season, labour taxation was tightened and contributed to the creation of 100,000 new unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u62	Mr President! It is good that the Minister of Finance is talking about the importance of purchasing power, thank you for that. A low-income wage earner is not much warmed up by the fact that the percentage of income tax is reduced for everyone when the euro is used to buy food and the medicines are purchased. Once again, the highest-incomers take the longer straw, both in absolute and relative terms, with all the indicators, and the increase in purchasing power cannot be realised. The government combines strict economic discipline with tax policy that favours the highest incomes, and this line does not support employment, this line increases inequality and income disparities. I therefore ask why huge expenditure cuts are justified by a reduction in deficits and debt, but these talks are forgotten when it comes to tax reductions. The concern of the great people is that these small additional euros obtained with tax reductions will then be collected by means of future increases in service charges.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u63	Mr President! Without this government tax package, there would not have been a competitiveness pact. And if it had been born without it, it would have been very unfair to those on low and middle incomes. Therefore, the Government’s line in this tax decision is quite correct. That is a long way from what the Socialist Minister of Finance drove through during the last parliamentary term, when corporation tax was reduced by more than 20%, when dividends increased dramatically. Most of them have gone to American companies, and otherwise pensioners and low incomes in Finland have received nothing. Now, at least the pensioners can. Of course, the Left Alliance wants, alongside the ACP, that the Kiki Agreement would not have been created and would be a strike wave and would now correct the situation in Finland. This wouldn't happen. As far as pharmacists are concerned, pharmacists hire more unemployed pharmacists when they are given the opportunity to do so. And this will certainly improve employment. They don't stay in anybody's pockets.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u64	Mr President! I am getting used to the fact that there are no answers to difficult questions from coalition ministers, but let us try it one more time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u67	Congressman Andersson, I would remind you that in this Chamber, you are called others. — A one-minute reply to Mr Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u68	Mr President! Here we need to start with the basic question of whether we believe that work and enterprise create well-being. And then, if the answer to this basic question is yes, then things must be done that support work, it must be done and it must be received. And reducing the tax burden on employment and entrepreneurship — and, in this case, in particular, work — is the primary direction taken by the government after seven years of increasing taxation on labour. I do, Mr Andersson, believe that this is the line we need to continue. This is a good, very good, movement at this stage and the fact that, as I said earlier, we are in favour of domestic demand and the domestic market, on which our weak economic growth at the moment lies, because foreign trade will not be able to draw aid. Well, as far as the whole is concerned, only by getting this employment rate higher — which I believe the government’s means, now being done and coming, are right — will public finances be strengthened and we can take better care of them,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u69	Mr President! If the real emphasis is on those on low and middle income, then they will have to get the same euros as those on high incomes. Then a modified truth was presented here: Contrary to what Mr Terho said, the previous government increased the reduction in earnings every year. But your deduction supports ten grand a month's income.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u74	Mr President! It is very good that you have made an increase in the reduction in earnings, that is very good, as we have done. It is exactly the same policy that you are now, miraculously enough, starting to criticise us when you did it in the past.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u75	Madam President! The opposition here focuses above all on the income-sharing effects of tax solutions. Of course, they're important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u79	Mr President! The source of prosperity is an eternal discussion and debate because it is a question of rotation. The main reason why a company should come to Finland is all that we here with tax money have done for a good business environment. At the same time, however, I would like to comment on Mr Levomäki's observation that the taxation of labour is so much higher in certain categories of income than in Sweden. At the same time, taxation on capital is significantly lower in Finland than the EU average. Was it now up to 7% below the EU average? The difference is particularly large in relation to our key competitors. Would it not be good, now that we have to take out loans for everyday living, to draw attention to these taxes on capital, where we clearly have that margin of drawback?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u80	Madam President! Just as Minister Orpo has just said, the health insurance contribution will fall and the daily allowance will increase, but this will not benefit the lowest incomes, such as workers who earn around EUR 14000 per year. We have now received the message from experts that this EUR 30 million target is targeted specifically at people who do not benefit from it. Now I would ask you, when you are given such an impression that this kind of 30 million euros pot would come to these low-income ones, whether that is the case or not, because there are different messages floating out of it. The second point is that, at the same time, you are doing index cuts for the most low-income people covered by social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u84	Mr President! I did not have time to answer this 30 million question before. It is currently in preparation for the STM, and with good will it is sought how it is effectively targeted at those with the lowest income. I would remind you that this government has twice improved the guarantee pension. The fact that we are facing these regrettable index cuts stems from the fact that our public finances are in such poor condition, unemployment is high. And when we have to adjust public spending, we have to go to these long paragraphs. It's a bad road. Of course, it is a bad road if we have to cut back on services and transfers. But the only way to translate this is if we increase the employment rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u85	Madam President! Mr Harakka asked about corporation tax and possible increase in corporation tax. It's been reduced a few times, isn't it? What is it, Minister Orpo, has the income from corporation tax increased or has the income from corporation tax fallen in the last year? I have the impression that the revenue has increased even though the tax rate has fallen, but it would be good to have confirmation and your position on how a possible increase in the tax rate would affect the revenue in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u88	Mr President! I understand that there is a great consensus in this Chamber that taxation must support employability and purchasing power. If this is the case and we are talking about pensioners, then the taxation of pensioners will of course no longer have a great deal to do with employment, otherwise it will be through its purchasing power. And that is why, now that the government has said many times that this purchasing power is improving, I would like you to correct this information, because, yes, a clear study shows that the purchasing power of all who make a pension of EUR 2500 or less will fall — and even so that the least-earned pensioners will lose their purchasing power most. So this does not in any way support the growth of purchasing power. One in four pensioners in Finland earns less than EUR 1000 — one in four pensioners earn less than EUR 1000. As they are the hardest hit by customer fees and everyone else, I wonder whether there are specific measures to improve their purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u89	Mr President! Responsible government action in such difficult times is absolutely essential. We should not promise everyone everything when we know what the economic situation is, the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u92	Mr President! Mr Lepomäki's speech has been criticised here. I thought it was a very honest speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u95	Madam President! It must first be said to Mr Lindtman, when the Finnish people listen, that I will try to speak in full accordance with the facts, and if the facts ever change, then my opinion will also change. And it is now the case that I did not say that the government would specifically emphasise, for example, tax reductions for middle-income or high-income earners, but that the government would also do them. It is very important that this should also be done because, as I said in my previous speech, these categories of income finance a significant part of the welfare state's services and transfers. But then to Mr Kontula: I am not quite sure if I heard correctly, but obviously you meant that in Finland the share of capital income tax in all taxes collected is about 7 percentage points lower than in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u96	Madam President! On one point we are in complete agreement here in the Chamber, and that is that we need more jobs in this country. By the way, your turn in this direction took place when the programme of the current government was announced and has been strengthened by the fact that these budget proposals have been made. This is reflected in the way in which companies, industry, based on barometers, rely on the future, trust in the perspective of economic development, trust in political decision-making, trust that reforms will be carried out. This is, of course, absolutely essential if we are to achieve this jointly agreed objective of more jobs. That is why I do not understand at all why there is such a great deal of criticism here as self-reduction — it is quite clear that it creates new jobs. The same is true, for example, in the case of the spv of forest farms — it is certain that forest trades will increase. And so on and so on and so on. This is absolutely obvious. Look what the barometers show you. They will come true, and that has been the government's goal all along:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u97	Mr President! A pharmacist who receives EUR 5000 in pure hand with this 5% tax reduction has a really big pharmacy and has a lot of employees,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u100	One more reply, then let us go to the list of speakers for a moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u101	Mr President! To the previous speaker, it would only increase the value of speaking if we were to stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u104	Secretary Orphan, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u105	Mr President! For corporate taxation. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government set up a working group on the whole of business taxation in the VM, whose mandate is until the end of January. It is intended to look at the whole package of corporate taxation, to assess how we can develop the system so that it encourages investment, employment and growth in Finland. There is certainly still a particular interest in how we can mobilise R & D investment, whether it can be supported by fiscal means. This is also a mega-class opportunity, let's see what it can do. Once again, I would like to correct this: I have said the fact that if employment in Finland does not improve, it means that public finances will not be strengthened, which means that our money will run out and we will have to make new cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u106	From the list of speakers, Congressman Lepomäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u107	Madam President! Indeed, the problem in Finland is not so much the difference in income as the fact that there are no or very few incomes. In Finland, income differentials have not increased in the last 15 years, but on the contrary have remained unchanged and even decreased in recent years. Instead, our employment rate has been alarmingly low for a very long time. In fact, if we look at this government target of 72%, we have seen the same reading in 1990. After all, this objective also seems rather heavy in relation to the starting point. It is therefore very important that, when we consider these tax solutions, we look not only at this year, but also at the last year, but also at what this high tax burden in Finland is and how it has come about. It is very important that tax solutions aim not only at increasing labour supply but also at increasing labour demand. In fact, when you look at the distribution of income in Finland today, there is a considerable decrease in the number of medium-paid jobs that were still high 20 years ago. In 1995, 250,000 people earned about the same amount — the average wage — and now only about 110,000. In other words, wage dispersion has increased, and good in that it could at least theoretically lead to better employment, but it means that in practice income tax payments are on the shoulders of a few, so it is very important that this group can be raised in Finland, that Finnish people are able to rise to higher income levels during their life-cycle with education and other labour-intensive skills, and this is from full income loss, i.e. unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u108	Mr President! The previous speech was excellent, and I would like to continue that, when we talk about taxation and creating incentives for work, even though we now have next year's government proposal, we should look much further at the line of work we are building, the kind of incentives we are working on in the long term. Despite the fact that this increase of 0.3% in the number of people employed has been mentioned and underestimated, I believe that it is a step in the right direction and that it is building the path by which we have more and more jobs. The fact that we are talking on a long-term basis means that we are showing the door to quarterly policy and, in that respect, we can say that the government bears this responsibility. If we look at our previous decisions, which have been repeated here several times, we have increased the progress of taxation, including this government's last decision by EUR 450 million. It increased the progression of work, i.e. through certain income categories, you can say, has a negative impact on the incentives to work. In that respect, it is fair, at least in this government proposal, to look at this situation fairly and fairly. It is clear that we have low-income pensioners, and it is good that the government is now also allocating tax reductions to pensioners. In addition, the EUR 30 million that is being allocated to those on low incomes is a very important, forwarding measure. In addition, I would like to point out that we will also have an increase in the guarantee pension in 2018, which will amount to EUR 10 million, an additional EUR 8 per guarantee pensioner per month.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u109	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! For at least seven years, the taxation of employees has been tightened in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u114	I will not open a new debate on this, but the replies will be given to Mr Viitanen and Mr Andersson and then to Mr Zyskowicz, if that is what he wants.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u115	Mr President! As far as the tax rate is concerned, the SDP has its own option, where the tax rate does not rise and debt is taken less, solutions are based on fairer taxation. This made it very clear that the Coalition Party is not concerned about tax inequality. I am amazed that the Finns of Peru are here thanking the unequal solutions and the centre has also forgotten the spirit of the embryo. But, President, that is what I expected, Mr Zyskowicz, that you would now have answered that question on the taxation of pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u118	Mr President! It seemed that Mr Zyskowicz came here with a written speech, because he has not listened much, for example, to my speech in this Chamber today. Today, I have discussed precisely the impact of this budget on employment and tried to get an answer from the Minister as to why this particular tax line is, from an employment point of view, the most justified. It is obvious that taxation can have an impact on employment. If you look at the alternative budget of the left-wing union, it will therefore include tax reductions both in relation to these reduced VAT rates and also in relation to income tax for low-income earners, because we estimate that when targeted at low-income earners it will have the greatest impact on demand and purchasing power. And I have still not received an answer from the Minister as to how this government line is most justified. As far as reduced VAT rates are concerned, it is clear that equal taxation, as VAT is, is proportionally the highest for low incomes, and our tax model also includes a tightening of capital income tax, which then affects how much money is spent on high incomes in euros.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u119	Madam President! All I have to say to Mrs Viitane is that in this draft budget, pensioners will receive the same 0.6 percentage points. But Mr Viitanen, when, on the one hand, you criticise this tax solution for the fact that the highest incomes in euros are the highest, do you not then criticise in your own motion the fact that the highest income pensioners also receive more than the lowest income pensioners in euros? Then, Mr Andersson, I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that even this left-wing favourite child, the reduction in VAT, gives more to people with higher incomes in euros than it gives to low incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u120	Secretary Orphan, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u121	Mr President! When I insist, as I insist, that this basic solution to the government's tax solution arose from the social partners' kiky agreement, which is a good thing for Finland's growth and employment, the government has specifically allocated its own tax reduction, 515 million, to people with low and middle incomes. In addition, there is a reduction in earnings which is exactly what you wanted, EUR 450 million,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u122	Congressman Mikkonen, from the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u123	Mr President! I agree with Mr Zyskowicz that it is worth less taxing work, because that is what we want more, and I also agree that then it is better to focus taxes on these environmental disadvantages, because we want less of them. And, of course, I am surprised at all the environmentally harmful subsidies that this government is not prepared to reduce. There has now been much discussion about how much these government tax solutions affect the different income categories. Indeed, when you look at this development of purchasing power, it is a fact that the high incomes benefit from this. There has also been a dispute here about the fact that, at the bottom of this kiky agreement — it is good in itself that such an agreement was reached — whether it is a tax or a parafiscal payment or what it is, but it is essential for man to know how much that tape will have at the end of the month. In that sense, unfortunately, this government tax solution is now, both in absolute terms and in percentage terms, targeting higher incomes much more transparently by hand than those on lower incomes. And yes, for domestic demand and purchasing power, this has the negative effect that the lower-income money goes directly to consumption, increasing domestic demand, when, for a high-income person, it means more savings, foreign trips, spending somewhere other than that in the domestic neighbourhood. Then I would have asked again when the government says that they are now going to allocate 30 million to these people with the lowest income: how is it going to be done and how is this EUR 30 million going to be enough? After all, in these calculations, we have only started with a salary of EUR 1500, and this EUR 30 million is not yet a distortion of this solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u124	Mr President! Perhaps the big line in the government's economic policy is what has now been lacking in this debate in the Chamber. There has been a little bit of a pick-up in itself about developing funny slogans and terms this afternoon, and every party, at least in the opposition, is competing, who will come up with a pharmacy deduction or some other funny term that would be fun for the gallery and certainly for this audience here downstairs in the hall. However, the big picture of economic policy is very much based on the recommendations of the expert institutions, the OECD, the IMF, the Bank of Finland, estimates from the Ministry of Finance. Preventing the increase in the overall tax rate is one of the most important, and this is also based on expert knowledge. On the other hand, however, it must be said that the government is doing a fairly balanced policy on demand for work and labour supply. We have big infrastructure projects going on — debt money. I'm sure the SDP will love this. They're running on debt money. And it must also be said that the most important policy in terms of purchasing power and inequality is that economic policy in general supports employment, new investment and entrepreneurship. Maybe it's a little bit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u125	Mr President! We have heard here today that the left-wing union, with a reduction in value added tax, would give the highest amount of euro money to the inner fileporvar. But what does the SDP do? At least it remains unclear to me whether the SDP would be willing to increase taxes in all income categories or what the alternative is. Well, let's see what the SDP said before the election: 4 billion, 3 billion cuts, including 800 million cuts from the indices. Even though Mr Viitanen is burping his chest like a red interpreter for surgery, that is what you have said before the elections. Tax increases of EUR 1 billion — as the only party you said you wanted to increase taxes. What has this government done? As the Minister of Finance has said here, it has reduced taxation by a total of almost EUR 1 billion when, according to your election programme, you would have increased taxation on Finns by EUR 1 billion. Furthermore, at the time when these decisions were taken, President Rinne believed that your electoral programme would increase the economy by 2%. At the time, the Ministry of Finance estimated that 1%. Ministry of Finance 1 — Rinne 0. Who was right? Who had a more realistic view? At the Ministry of Finance — and I dare say that this government — is more realistic than the Social Democrats. But in any case, 4 billion adjustments you would have been prepared to make. I'm gonna ask you: What's your line now? Would you like to increase taxes in all income categories, or what is your solution?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u126	One reply to Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u127	Mr President! We have this alternative budget and that is our solution. We have repeated quite a number of times here, President, that our solution is less debt-taking than this government. The tax rate won't go up. This is based on the fact that we have concrete measures for employment here. The tax base will also be extended and fairer tax solutions made. President! Indeed, I would like to see an explanation here, when we are talking here about different options — when, for example, a low- and medium-income employee and a pensioner would pay less tax than the government proposal, but the well-off would pay more — from the government parties at least to the question that has been asked, how can it be possible that, despite the claims, the tax rate for pensioners here will fall less than for employees, and in that way this tax difference will not be evened out in this proposal? So that is what I would like answers to, because it has been so much on display here and you have talked so much about the fact that even pensioners now receive these tax reductions. Can we still have an answer to this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u128	Madam President! I think that alternative budget is a year old, so...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u133	Mr President! What is spoken in this Chamber should be based on facts, right and reasonable. Against this background, I personally find this debate on entrepreneurship reduction a little disproportionate, which, however, affects tens of thousands of self-employed and other employers in Finland, that it is attempted by anti-entrepreneurship forces in this Chamber to discredit it as some form of pharmacy reduction. But if we are talking about the pharmacists, then the other day I received feedback that not all pharmacists make these sums of money, which has been repeatedly and more often appealed to in this Chamber, but much less. It was also reported that the pharmaceutical savings decided upon by the government will in any case take away from the pharmacists the amount that this entrepreneurial deduction will bring back. I would therefore like to ask how this is going to be: are we talking here, on the basis of facts, with information and arguments, or are there unjustified denigrating one profession here?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u134	Mr President! Good speeches. I was about to talk about those pharmacies, but there was talk of them in the previous speech. Somehow it comes to mind that there are no other pharmacies here in Finland, that hopefully we have other business worlds now. At least I'm not always going to find a pharmacy, so I wish there were a little more. But that's it. I am looking forward to that 30 million allocation for those on low and middle incomes, because of course I want people to have enough income, and certainly none of us wants people to get along. That is why I would like to see this discussed. In some ways it was found that we, the Finns of Peru, in triumphs, accept unequal politics, and I have never heard of the use of such a term here, but it is your own interpretation Then I would have liked to remind you that we have already done a lot for the low incomes. I would like to remind you that 300,000 low-income people are out of the Yle-Tax. The guarantee pension has been increased twice, as the Minister says. There has been an investment in informal care and family care. These are the whole, and this is where the economy is made. We are not dealing with these as we are in the week's period, but we are trying to improve the situation in the long term. It has also been said here that the lower limit of the solidarity tax has been very much revised, which was a very good thing. I'm happy to say hello. Then, with that household allowance, such a little nuance that you can get it if I buy household services for parents or grandparents or their spouses. It is good to remember that well - incomed children are also allowed to buy these services for their parents, which means that it does not have to be for themselves. I hope that all of us children will go along with this to support our own parents. Mr Gustafsson stated earlier that the SDP was the result of this kiky agreement, and in spring you told us, the SDP, that you cannot influence it — interesting when he advertised in this row that it is yours.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u135	Mr President! The representative Kankaanniemi and the representative Mäkelä recently revealed who are the small people, the most in need in Finland: Not the guaranteed pensioners, not the poor and the sick, but the pharmacists, who are the number one in every municipality's tax statistics already now. They are the most distressed in Finland, and so are private doctors and lawyers. Congressman Häkkänen, this isn't funny. This is extremely serious. The position of small entrepreneurs must be improved, but this so-called entrepreneurship reduction does not do so. On behalf of the pharmacists, I am sorry that they are examples of the highest income categories to which 60% of the so-called entrepreneurial deductions are being paid — that is, more than half, 75 million. But 5000 euros in a clean hand is actually on the bottom deck, and now Mr Mäkelä has a fact rather than hearsay: The Pharmacy has calculated that the average of the money in hand is 5700 euros. But read your own bill. According to it, half of the beneficiaries of the entrepreneurship reduction earn EUR 10000 per year or less. They pay very little tax, with a monthly benefit of EUR 3 20 cents. It gets one bus ticket in Helsinki, the small entrepreneur gets to pay for the return journey himself. The tax bill, half of which does not benefit from anything and half of which ends up in the wealthiest, has failed, does not help small entrepreneurs. That is why we in the SDP have an option specifically aimed at small entrepreneurs: Continue the work of Minister of Finance Antti Rinte and increase the VAT threshold from EUR 10000 to EUR 30000. That is what small entrepreneurs want most. But I did not receive an answer from Minister Orpo twice to my question. When you say that you give low and middle incomes, why do you lower the highest tax rate? It's your own tax solution and counterbalance for low incomes. You use your own tax solutions to calculate the highest tax rate. Why, Minister Orphan?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u136	Mr President! Reducing the tax burden on work and entrepreneurship is a good objective. The question is how to achieve this objective. It is also a question of how to cover the dwindling tax base caused by tax reductions. The right way to act is to shift the tax focus to taxation of consumption and harm, and to reduce taxation on low and medium incomes in order to realise the purchasing power effect on employment and economic growth. People now fear that the gap left by tax cuts will be filled by additional cuts and/or increases in service charges for low-income earners and employment will not be affected. I would like to ask the Minister whether the government is prepared to look at the tax package in such a way as to move towards genuinely low but broad tax bases, to remove direct business subsidies and, above all, tax subsidies. The more we tax consumption and disadvantages, the more we can afford to reduce the tax burden on work and businesses. With regard to the overall tax rate, as Mr Häkkänen pointed out earlier, the Economic Policy Review Council has put the entire government's tax line on the table, which is to say that it has completely knocked it out. It is folly to stare only at the ratio of tax revenues to total output and to reduce the means of sound economic policy, especially when spending cuts alone are more harmful to economic growth and employment than the use of the tax base. Are you familiar with this report on the tax guidelines of the Economic Policy Review Council and will it raise some ideas, perhaps also action, in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u137	Mr President! First of all, it must be said that this government is doing very consistently and with expert knowledge, based on a broad range of measures for business and employment, including the reform of the regulation of working life, reductions in company taxation and reductions in labour taxation, and even makes a strong contribution to wage solutions. Now there were criticisms of entrepreneurship reduction. It is true that not all tax deductions or tax changes may always be most optimal, but this will also reduce the tax burden on business. I hope that a great many small entrepreneurs have not seen this debate and this attack and treatment of entrepreneurs by the SDP. This has in fact been a rather peculiar attitude, in other words, the stigmatisation of the fact that, in a way, business does not deserve tax reductions. The second question of raising the VAT threshold: I agree. It should be lightened at some point. But the main problems there are the administrative burden of VAT statements and others, that is, it should primarily be dealt with, and the second is that, when the VAT threshold is raised, it will in practice cost more as tax subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u138	Madam President! After all, the pharmacist is largely a business name entrepreneur. What is the idea of this entrepreneurial discount? Bring the taxation of such business name entrepreneurs closer to the taxation of companies in the form of limited liability companies. Well, what did the Social Democrats do in their time under the leadership of Urp, under the leadership of Rinte? Reduced corporation tax, which meant that companies in the form of limited liability companies benefited and that SMEs did not benefit. As far as Mr Harakka's appeal to the Pharmacy Association is concerned, the Pharmacy itself says that this entrepreneurial deduction will bring the pharmacist an average of EUR 5700, but at the same time the government's decision to save on medicines costs an average of EUR 27,000, so it is quite unusual for you to draw such conclusions after such figures as you do. The Apothecary Association also stresses that they have been involved in the working group in deciding these drug savings and committed to passing them through, so if you appeal to facts and the Apothecary Association, here are the facts and the prophets.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u139	Madam President! Firstly, it must be said to Mr Häkkänen that the Social Democrats want to support entrepreneurship and, in particular, small entrepreneurship, such as raising the VAT threshold to EUR 30000, facilitating the recruitment of the first employee and so on. In other words, the Social Democrats genuinely support entrepreneurship and want it in their own alternative budget then in November to present it in more detail. Mr President! I would still ask Minister Orvo, when one important aspect of this big picture, which has been called for here, is the increase in our income inequality. While you say that 30 million are directed to the most low incomes, it does not remove the big picture of the increase in income differentials. Firstly, your proposal for pensioners creates inequalities: the tax gap is increasing between pensioners and employees. Only the most well-paid pensioners, pensioners who earn more than EUR 90000, will be less taxed in this respect, but that is also your choice of values. In addition to this, you target index cuts for the most low-income people: both for families with children who depend on social security and for pensioners. You are saying here that the guarantee pension will rise, but on the basis of this proposal, the guarantee pension for this solution will decrease by EUR 7. Then unemployment benefit will be reduced. In practice, for those people who depend on social security and who are the lowest-income ones, you will be targeting cuts. You say that income support does not come with an index cutter. That would be the last thing you would do if you did it for income support. The income support system should be a last resort, a temporary one, and it should be encouraging for people to get out of it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u140	Madam President! The last speaker was also a strong speaker, particularly with regard to these effects on the distribution of income. I would now like to stress that the whole policy of the government, including tax policy, is aimed at ensuring that we do not just share this dwindling cake in a different way and again, but that we are trying to increase this joint cake. That is why government policy, including tax policy, aims to strengthen the conditions for work and entrepreneurship, because, as I have said, all economic well-being is ultimately based on work and entrepreneurship, and taxation is only a means by which some of these fruits of employment and entrepreneurship can and should be used for the common good. When the government acts specifically to improve employment, it will reduce the potentially most significant inequality between the unemployed and the employed. And while we are doing what we can to boost growth and improve employment, we still need immediate budgetary austerity measures in this country, which have now been decided last year and will be decided this year for next year. These savings cannot be escaped, nor did the demos get away before the elections, when they spoke for them, but, of course, now that the opposition can make such air-stamping alternative budgets, they can completely ignore them. Finally, I would like to say that there is also justice in these income tax matters, and the point of justice is also that when you work hard, work hard and are energetic, it would leave a little more for you and your own family.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u141	Mr President! In addition to what Mr Elo said: I believe that pharmacists are business name entrepreneurs for the very sake of regulation, i.e. they cannot act in the form of a limited liability company, even if they wish. But when it comes to this discussion about entrepreneurship reduction and its importance to entrepreneurs, Finnish Entrepreneurs are a fairly straightforward organization on many issues, and their homepage in press release 21.9. becomes quite straightforward: "The entrepreneur deduction puts different forms of company tax more on the same line. Above all, it is a question of equality and benefits the smallest companies." Later, it goes on to say: "The proposal demonstrates that the government is investing in small entrepreneurship." This is a comment to Mr Haraka, who apparently wants to make it clear that he and the Social Democrats know this issue better than the business associations and entrepreneurs themselves — just as the Social Democrats know other things better than the ones concerned.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u142	I myself have been an entrepreneur for over 30 years, so I know exactly what this is about. Finnish Entrepreneurs are an interest group that is pushing for its own cause and has now taken the government's side. If we want to help small businesses, we will help small entrepreneurs. Directing support to barbers, physiotherapists, masseuses, craftsmen, self-employed people who are struggling with livelihoods and do not shake this huge amount of money and tens of millions for those who already have. Now put this pharmacy deduction on the shelf and let's do this raising the VAT threshold now. VATTI’s study warmly recommends this. And precisely, as Mr Häkkänen said, this bureaucracy will be reduced and people will be encouraged to become entrepreneurs and at the same time we will encourage entrepreneurs. So let us make this decision instead of this failed entrepreneurial reduction. Let's do it together, let's do it now, let's do it right now, because it's what small entrepreneurs want the most.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u143	Mr President! In fact, the government is doing exactly the kind of policy that will also support future trends in the business structure and job structure of the economy. We are increasingly creating jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises. And this means that all issues relating to corporate finance and taxation and regulation of working life should be changed more and more to favour small and medium-sized enterprises. This involves local agreement and various other government projects. But I am glad that again, in this budget, many important things are being taken forward which are of particular benefit to small businesses: the payment-based VAT, the extension of the household allowance, which also has a positive impact on the fight against the black economy. And at some point, of course, we must also consider raising the VAT threshold. But one such question: we also have many partnerships whose tax structure is made up of capital income tax and then income tax bases, and companies are increasingly forced to act in specialist sectors, as the economy is becoming increasingly expert-driven, so why do the Greens here too — yes, I understand why the Democrats and the Left Alliance — why are the Greens also calling for a higher rate of income tax because this trend in the economy is becoming increasingly expert-driven? And if so, in the opinion of many researchers, research institutes, one of the greatest threats to Finland's economic growth, innovation-driven economic growth. Here I would like the left, the Green Left, to reconsider its line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u144	Madam President! I would now like to ask the Minister about the household allowance. When a household allowance is possible for people who have taxes, but in practice this does not benefit those with the lowest income who also need, for example, toilet renovation, home renovation and other similar or services, I would like to ask how this household allowance could be developed in such a way that even the lowest-income ones who are not covered by this tax would benefit from the same benefits as those of us who pay taxes, and that would allow them to benefit from the household allowance, for example, for a toilet renovation or something like that. Then to Ben Zyskowicz just now, when he said that the government has one important aspect which he specifically stressed: to reduce inequalities between the unemployed and the employed. But, Minister, Mr Zyskowicz, with these proposals, what the government is doing at the moment, you are deepening precisely this inequality between these unemployed people, that is to say, you are deepening long-term unemployment. For example, you target pay subsidies for companies, which in itself is a good thing, because many young people who have graduated will then be able to enter the labour market, it is very good, but at the same time you will be cutting. The organisations also employ enormous numbers of people and, above all, they employ the people who are the hardest to employ. Now you're cutting the union pay subsidy by almost half. The operating conditions of municipal workshops are cut in such a way that municipal workshops are driven down. In other words, the situation of those people who need support, guidance, advice in order to find employment will be made even more difficult. Once again, this inequality is being created between people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u145	Let's take the representatives Kontula and Aalto, and then the minister's turn.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u146	Mr President! Mr Häkkänen asked why the left is so strongly in favour of progress. Well, in human communities, ever since the discovery of fire, things have usually been arranged so that those who have the most resources and powers bear responsibility for a greater burden than their own lives require, and since the modern age, both the period of childhood and the period of old age have increased significantly, this burden has increased since cave times. I myself, on the salary of a Member of Parliament, belong to the highest income decile, and I cannot say that taxation is detrimental to my innovativeness at all — the money is still good enough for the idea to run. Mr Zyskowicz wondered why the distribution of income was so of interest to the left as to why there was no interest in companies and in the well-being of companies. The distribution of income is definitely a matter of people's experienced happiness and objective welfare, but it is also a question of growth and company welfare in the light of economics. The left is not only concerned about the distribution of income because small income differences are good for the general happiness of the people, but also because they are good for business in general and for the economy in general. And the fact that the government has not made an estimate of its own budget is not only an indifference towards the citizens, but also a poor budget, because the issue of income distribution is precisely the big picture that has been so much called for here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u147	Mr President! With a limited amount of money, tax policies should be best targeted to support employment and economic growth. I think we all agree on this, at least in principle. Support for entrepreneurs is important, especially for new ones, and support for SMEs is important for employment. The situation in the current system is that more is being done to support existing companies and existing owners rather than creating new markets, which means that the government is very strongly pro-business rather than pro-market-minded, and here I would like the assembly to remember the market economy from time to time. And as far as this reduction in entrepreneurship is concerned, the same principle applies to this, that when there is little money, it should be targeted with the smartest of all. In fact, if you look at the tax system, this entrepreneurial deduction increases the complexity of the tax system and runs counter to its neutral principle. It also targets the vast majority of business deductions from euros to the lowest and highest-income groups and, in fact, the argument that the reduction in company company taxation had to be compensated for by a reduction in company taxation, in order to ensure uniform taxation, is not entirely correct, since the taxation of passenger companies is currently cheaper when looking at the whole scale. When you look at the whole scale, the taxation of passenger companies is cheaper than that of limited liability companies, so that in this sense, among other things, the Prime Minister's Premises are wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u148	Secretary Orphan, three minutes from that podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u149	Mr President! Let me start with what Mr Aalto has said. That is how much party politics you said that the coalition would remember the market economy. I hope that you will be there in your own group, in your own party, to discuss the importance of a market economy. From my countless experiences in previous years, this is certainly a little less clear for you there, but I encourage you: you are on the right track. The government believes in a market economy: the liberalisation of shop opening conditions, the taxi cab, alcohol law, the importance of social welfare reform — on a very good path to exploit the market, for the benefit of our economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u152	Mr President! The line of work that Minister Orpo has highlighted here is quite right. It is the only way forward from this situation. To Mr Viitanen, I would say that Minister Orpo could indeed present you with the Nobel Prize for Economics, when you said earlier that you wanted the tax rate to remain as it is, you want to see a significant reduction in debt, and yet you want to cancel all increases in payments and increase government spending in every section of the budget by hundreds of millions. This equation doesn't play. If it's playing, then you've earned the Nobel Prize.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u157	Mr President! Representative to Mr Squeak: I am actually wondering about your reflection. In view of what the government is doing at the moment, the long-term unemployed benefit is that every single measure that increases jobs and jobs is also an advantage for the long-term unemployed. If you compare the measures taken during the government
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u158	Mr President! I'm a little puzzled by these SDP speeches about this inequality. First of all, given the main background, the reasons why inequality and infirmity in this country are increasing, the lack of prospects is an increase in unemployment, especially the worsening of long-term unemployment — employment has improved slightly but long-term unemployment has worsened. Let us see what the demars have done elsewhere in Europe: in Germany, Schröder's executive government was a working-line government — now it is Europe's best employment. In Sweden, the labour market has been made more flexible by demarcation — now one of the best employment rates in Europe. In Denmark, a competitive social security system encourages the reception of work and has increased the employment rate. Look, the SDP, a little elsewhere, how modern social democratic movements deal with employment issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u159	In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that there are representatives of you who are here in the Chamber who have been asked to speak by most of you. It looks like they're being used on the spot. They're used. And if the subject was to be debated, after the speeches now being made, it was only to be debated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u160	Mr President! Mrs Lauslahti has already replied to Mrs Kiljune, but I will also respond on the same lines. When I said that the government was trying to reduce the inequality that results from unemployment, Mr Kiljunen's Socialist Democratist understood it so that it is about the benefits of the unemployed. We understand that in the meeting we are trying to get these unemployed people to work, and that is precisely our line of work, that is to say to reduce the inequalities that follow from unemployment by giving more unemployed people the opportunity to work and not, above all, by seeking to improve unemployment benefits. Representative Kontula explained that income distribution is important for experienced happiness, the success of business life and the success of the national economy as a whole. I believe this. But the distribution of income in Finland is so even that the negative effects of the studies on the operating conditions of the economy and the development of the economy as a whole are not relevant for Finland. Finland is not a country of such glaring income differences — and I say, fortunately, it is not a country of such glaring incomes as many other countries in this world. In addition to this distribution of income, it is important in Finland that there is income that is shared, and that is why the government's policy is aimed specifically at promoting growth and employment, because only through an increase in employment will we gain more income for this society, which is shared. As I have said many times, taxation ultimately does not safeguard welfare services. Taxation is just a way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u161	Mr President! This debate has focused a great deal on the issue of income distribution. The starting point or point on which this draft budget has been built is precisely the line of work. It's the line of work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u164	Mr President! I agree with what is said here too, that these new jobs will be created in small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is good to think about how we will support their creation even more. We have raised the issue of extending the household allowance, which certainly has some significance, and also a payment-based VAT, which is very important and makes it easier for small businesses to manage cash flow. But then I would like to ask whether this entrepreneurship reduction is then the best way to get new jobs and small entrepreneurs to dare to hire new workers, because that is the biggest threshold when entrepreneurs wonder whether they will dare to take the first employee. We have more than 170,000 sole entrepreneurs, and I am sure quite a few of them have wondered whether it might be possible to hire an employee and thereby get both employment and its own activities expanded and also to bring relief to their own efforts. I would like to ask the Minister whether you have considered alternatives other than this reduction in entrepreneurial activity, which, by investing in small businesses, would make it more effective to create more jobs. Have you calculated the effect of facilitating the recruitment of the first employee, for example by exempting or reducing significantly the amount of social security contributions when hiring the first employee? If it were to be done with this same amount, what would the effects be, would they be better targeted and bring more jobs?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u165	Mr President! I think we all agree that, first of all, employment must be strengthened, and we all know that these new jobs will be created precisely here in the SME sector, in the SME sector, and we must do everything we can to ensure that employment will also be strengthened in that respect. The Social Democrats have proposed, as has been said here, that tax incentives should be introduced for the recruitment of the first employee, that the VAT threshold should be raised to 30,000, thereby supporting employment and supporting SMEs in particular. I also fully agree with Mr Zyskowicz that it is important for every unemployed person to get a job, as he himself said. But now the problem is that this government policy does not work in such a way that every unemployed person gets a job. We have at present estimated that there are some 70,000 to 80,000 young people seeking their own place in life who are not yet in a position to enter the labour market directly, for example, in search of a place of education or direction in their own lives. We have long-term unemployed who may have a lack of a vocational training basis or some kind of vocational training basis, but for one reason or another they are not employed in companies and they are not taken care of by companies, which is why our organisations and our workshops, for example, have been very good employers for these people. That is why it is a real shame that the government is now cutting employment opportunities for these people by cutting the wage subsidy for organisations and making it difficult for local workshops to operate. That is why, as Mr Zyskowicz said in his own speech, we fully agree that every unemployed person can get a job. I hope that the government will also act on this line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u167	Mr President! I would like everyone who supports the line of work to Google the income gap and economic growth. The first thing on the screen is the reports from the IMF, OECD, Etla on how income differentials directly affect economic growth and how the growth of income differentials in Finland has cut as much as a tenth of economic growth, up to a tenth. This means either that we have not been given the jobs that were needed, or that we have had a lot worse jobs than we could have had with a different income distribution policy. For this reason, the working line is not an alternative to the income gap debate, but rather, if it refers to better jobs and more jobs, there is a strong link between what kind of income differences we are trying to maintain in this Chamber. That is why I believe that the government is also acting against its own objectives when it is as careless as it is about the issue of income differentials.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u168	Mr President! The first thing we need to do is to comment on this proposal from the left as to whether all income differences are totally unacceptable. You can't make a model like that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u171	Mr Viitanen and then the Minister for another minute on the spot.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u172	Mr President! That is what we are talking about here, and so far we have not seen from the government that line of work, at most a cheap line of work. This has been a year of stalling and waiting, and there has been no real employment activity. That the clock is ticking, there's no sign of the search list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u185	Minister, two minutes on site.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u186	Mr President! First of all, after all this slump and gloom, it must be said that this line of work is already reflected in the fact that during the government's period the number of jobs has gone up, the increase in unemployment has fallen, the number of hours worked in the national economy has increased significantly, the tax revenue has gone in a positive direction. So this is the government's line of work, and we're making new ways, and they're also in that budget book, and I'm sure you'll find them there when you study in the fall. But on this question of these income differentials for Mr Kontula: according to my information, income differentials in Finland have not increased significantly since 2007, and there is no greater change now. However, it is because our economic growth has been weak and economic growth tends to widen these income disparities. But on the other hand, I do know in the background that when we have high unemployment we have inequality and exclusion. The higher unemployment, the more it is, and that is why I am once again returning to employment, because I believe that the main social problem, namely exclusion, inequality, the loss of equality of opportunity, is due to high unemployment. That is why the government has this line of work, and we are genuinely doing a lot of new measures here. And Mr Viitanen: Yes, we should also prepare more. I have honestly said here that these are not enough; we are preparing more. What kind of sin is that? You'd probably be criticising us here if we'd brought back some more savages. We'll prepare them properly and bring them here when they're ready. Now in the budget book and our solutions
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u189	Mr. Speaker! When we look back a little bit here as a starting point: As far as pensioners are concerned, I remember very well that 15 years ago — representative Even the reference was here at the time — tax rulings were also made, and you gave tax reductions to high-income taxpayers when you also reduced taxation on the most high-income earners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u194	Mr President! From that previous speech, it was said — especially in the early part of the speech — that the facts are still on the table, not just in the presidential elections in the United States. But, Mr President, there has been talk of a line of work. But it is not credible. The unemployed are offered a stick and it is thought that this is the way to get work for the unemployed to cut unemployment benefit. The second thing that does not add to this credibility is that education, product development, innovation are being cut. In Finland, however, we have no choice but to increase the employment rate, to gain more jobs than to find something to do, export products that have genuine demand in the world. And this is not born in any other way than through the development of knowledge. And when we are in this situation that the economy is not growing, and it has so far grown from the power of domestic consumption, there should by no means be a reduction in the purchasing power that is currently running our economy. And it is being cut precisely when people on low incomes are not given the same tax relief or those on low incomes receive less tax relief than those on high incomes. The fact that it is in the pocket of a low-income person that the euro goes there through the cashier of the store that is the one that will certainly increase the jobs for us has already come to light on many occasions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u196	Mr President! I do not quite understand what we have to say on the left. Firstly, purchasing power will be strengthened in that regard, in view of the government's proposal at hand, which will lead to a reduction in taxation, i.e. a strengthening of purchasing power. The second question relates to our unemployed: is it not in the interests of the unemployed to have a job? Shouldn't that focus be right there on the left? And I will return to the issue of income distribution. Government proposal number 135, with more measures: when you look at the Gini effect, it is plus minus zero.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u198	Mr President! Mr Orpo, you are quite right that income inequality has not increased significantly since 2007. This is by no means a coincidence. It is influenced not only by the international economic cycles, but also by the policy that has been taken in Finland. A couple of governments then — in the government where the coalition was also — had the routine of checking the Gini factor for all major political policies before anything was done before any matter was finally settled. Against this I was quite shocked when last week I had the impression that the Prime Minister certainly did not even know what those income-sharing effects were and at least they had not been made out of the budget. I do not believe that this budget will be able to change the distribution of revenue by 30 million. It's about such a big change. My impression is that we are now going in a worse direction, and that is why I am talking about the distribution of income at this point. Congressman Häkkänen, I am talking about the recent results of bourgeois economics. I'm going to point out the sources from which they can be checked by everyone. You will answer by talking about the Soviet Union and how this line will lead to Soviet solutions. In my opinion, this is more embarrassing than a proper demonstration of the economics skills with which the Coalition Party has so generally wanted to profile.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u199	Mr President! I think we went a little bit overboard on that side, too. I criticised your speech earlier, Mr Kontula, for suggesting that, if there are any differences in income, this would be totally counterproductive for the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u204	Here are a few speeches, which are such short speeches, and if there is still room for debate, then we shall proceed with the debate or with the short speeches. — Representative Jokinen next.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u205	Mr President! There has now been much talk about this issue of income distribution in Finland, and when we look at the European level, the comparison of EU countries, the distribution of income in Finland is the fifth most even in the EU countries. In other words, the fifth most even distribution of income in the EU countries is the distribution of income in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u210	Mr President! I repeat, when we find that line of work here in the budget book, but when all we have is that cheap line of work. And the fact that the unemployed have to fight every day with a low income does not add to any more jobs, the fact that these weaker, low-income people are still being cut, as the Coalition Party wants.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u217	Mr President! Mr Viitanen, you will now be left half of what you will never say when you will never tell us how you would have done the 3 billion cuts that Antti Rinne announced 20. On 1 March 2015, i.e. one month before the Parliamentary elections. Mr Rinne said that the Social Democrats cut 3 billion and increase taxation by 1 billion. You've completely forgotten these things, and you won't tell me anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u224	Finally, Mr Kontula, Mr Häkkänen and Mr Mikkonen, and then it was agreed that the minister should be given a two-minute speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u225	Mr President! Representative Häkkänen, OECD estimates in its report of just over a year and a half ago that income differentials ate nearly 9 percentage points of Finland's economic growth. It is ridiculous to say that this would have no impact on employment. Knowing that the increase in income differentials was largely the result of political decisions taken at the beginning of the 1990s and then the subsequent political decisions that gave it a little momentum, we in this house can at least have some influence on what is our growth, which is our employment. This is an essential part of any reasonable line of work. It also stresses that tackling income differentials through taxation and transfers will not harm economic growth if the measures are well designed and implemented. It is hardly meant for the government's choices that we have at hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u226	Mr President! Anyone who claims that income differentials would not be addressed in Finland has not necessarily looked at how our taxes are built. After all, we have a very high rate of progressive taxation,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u229	Mr President! I would have repeated this question in relation to this entrepreneurial reduction when I did not receive an answer from the Minister. In other words, when we know that there is little money in these meagre times, it is of course extremely important that the money that is spent, for example, on various deductions, should then be shrewd and provide more jobs. EUR 128 million is therefore the size of this entrepreneurial reduction, and I asked whether the government has assessed whether this is now the most effective way of creating new jobs for small businesses, or whether it would have been smarter to target it in some other way, for example with regard to the temporary exemption from these social security contributions or the percentage reduction in their social security contributions. That is the answer I would have liked to hear: has it been estimated that this is now the most effective way of doing so, especially since we have now heard how it is directed above all towards the highest-income entrepreneurs and businesses and not at the lowest-income self-employed who might want to employ more workers? Then, of this inequality, I would like to say that I find it regrettable if, in fact, it is now that there are obviously insufficient impact assessments made in these major decisions of the government. This Gini factor is a very easy and useful way to do it. It is extremely regrettable if we, by increasing the income gap, get into a situation, as is the case now that these index cuts in benefits are made, that the situation of the most vulnerable will become even more difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u230	Minister, on site for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u231	Mr President! It is an unfortunate fact that when public finances have to be cut off, they will be cut off from the largest items from which the money will be collected, and they will then hit the services and transfers. This is very regrettable. Those who most use income transfers and services will then suffer the most. That is why, once again — and I am sure to repeat myself here all autumn — employment again. There is no other shortcut to avoiding cuts and contractions in the key elements of our welfare society, which create equality, create justice and help the most vulnerable, i.e. services and transfers. And of these, I would like to see a situation in which services are essential and as few as possible depend on transfers. Unfortunately, at the moment we are far from that goal, but everything is being done. Mr Häkkänen made an excellent speech, which saves me time, because I had registered a page of employment measures which the government has already decided on, and more is indeed in the pipeline. I look forward to the end of this week, together with the social partners, to a model for reforming unemployment security in a more active direction. It is very important what has been given as a starting point for the balance between sticks and carrots, so to speak. The work has progressed in a good spirit. It is well understood that it is not an easy job, but even these difficult things need to be done. For this entrepreneurship reduction: Of course, the government already went through an innumerable number of different measures in its programme negotiations, and the value choice was that when we expect them to create 110,000 jobs for SMEs, then this entrepreneurial reduction was considered the right way. And when the starting point is that a successful company is already a company that has what to reduce, Then, quite briefly, Mr President, I would like to say that when we have raised the issue here:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u232	Mr President! Before Minister Orpo leaves, I would like to say here that we were government partners last season. The economy was balanced by making use of taxation and by making cuts. In this respect, taxation was one of the tools for balancing our economy. Now you have left taxation virtually untapped. You have targeted these austerity cuts solely on people on low incomes and on people on social security. In this respect, it could be said that the current approach is not in the same way as it was in the last period. Even though difficult decisions were taken then, there was still much more, or practically all, use of taxation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u235	Mr President! Congressman Kiljunen said a lot about last season's decisions. Yes, last season decisions were made and the economy was adjusted by 3 billion, taxes were raised by 3 billion. There was a solidarity tax, a retirement tax, an extension of the solidarity tax, a tightening of capital income tax, a progressive transformation of capital income tax, an extension of the capital income tax and so on and so on. Is there any economic growth? There was no economic growth. We are now trying with various tools — Mr Häkkänen listed here the good tools — plus that we are now trying to go in the direction of a more courageous tax policy. I believe that this is now the line that needs to be tried out in this economic situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u236	Mr President! Mr Mikkonen raised a very important issue, namely the recruitment of the first employee and the problem of how to promote it. This is where the work of the government's standard-breaking work and also the work of the incentive trap working group is seeking solutions for it. At the moment, entrepreneurs are afraid to employ people, because they fear the responsibilities it imposes, fear the bureaucracy, fear whether this sector of enterprise is still such that I am sure that I will be able to employ this person in time. It is therefore important to seek solutions to enable the first employee to be recruited and to deal with this problem. There is now a reform of the Employment Contracts Act. They extend the probationary periods, reduce the readmission obligation, facilitate deadlines. Of course, entrepreneurship reduction and payment-based VAT will also improve the situation of companies, and it is hoped that this will also improve the conditions for hiring workers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u237	Mr President! Although Minister Orpo has already left, I would like to draw attention to his argument that we should cut off the poor because the majority of income transfers go specifically to the low incomes and there is where to cut. That is not true. For us, the poorest decile receives 9.4% of income transfers, while the richest decile receives 10%. So the richest tenth gets more income transfers than the poorest tenth. The remaining 80.6% will then be placed in intermediate groups. If, in this situation, we find no other way than to cut repeatedly, over and over again, always from the lowest incomes, then it will be a purely political choice and no question of just having no other place to cut.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u238	Mr President! Sometimes in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we have had to reflect on these very economic cuts and on where the constitutional edges go. I would remind you that in some expert hearings there was also such a constitutional precondition, which is good to remember, so that we should manage our finances and debt burden in such a way that future generations also have these fundamental rights, such as the right to basic free education and social security. We must not eat everything right now, even if it may be easier for us right now. I was looking at Sitra's survey last year, July 7, 2015. It states that 11 per cent of income earners paid 45 per cent of Finnish taxes in the second year. According to Sitra, this group received EUR 50000 per year in gross income of around EUR 2700 per month. In this debate, too, we should always consider what we consider to be high incomes, who pays taxes here. 2700 does not seem to me to be a huge income, and yet it must be remembered that they — I call them middle incomes — bear a great responsibility here. And we also need to make sure that they can handle it there in the middle of the job. Then when you think about this kiky deal, it's just a hand from the employees to the unemployed. When they have been prepared to cut off their own benefits, including their vacation money, I cannot quite understand why they would not then also receive the tax relief that was in it as a carrot. Somehow I feel that we should also go through some of these concepts, that what is high income. There may be someone on the back of the screen who wonders that I'm paying crazy taxes, municipal taxes on top of what's not good enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u239	President! Congressman Kiljunen brought up the municipal finances. We already listened to the municipal and health section of the Committee on Finance today about the local government finances situation in the budget, and an expert from the Ministry said that in the light of the figures in this budget book, the local government finances will be strengthened by EUR 39 million next year. The union of municipalities has calculated and resulted in exactly the same result. And this is historic. During the last parliamentary term, the central government shares of municipalities were cut cumulatively by an estimated EUR 5 billion, perhaps more, and the municipalities became in debt, the whole local government sector being in debt of EUR 7 billion — in the last parliamentary term. What did that mean? This meant that municipalities raised municipal taxes almost across the board. It is an equal tax, i.e. the low-income people you defend pay more than the municipal tax. There is, of course, that small reduction, but it is not progressive. And in addition to the rise in taxation, the payments increased, the negotiations took place in a number of municipalities, there were redundancies, the services weakened. Now there are no corresponding figures. For example, the expert noted that no municipalities are going into liquidation next year. In other words, the local government finances are strengthened and confidence is positive in that respect. Compared to the last period, the situation is completely different, and it is very important for those who need services and those on low incomes, because this is not the way to increase taxes. Mr President! With regard to this tax issue, as far as business deduction is concerned, during the last parliamentary term, when you, under the leadership of the Social Democrats, gave limited companies a corporate tax rebate of perhaps 800 million per year, it went to all limited companies with taxable income as a company. Also, for example, law firms in the form of limited liability companies, design agencies — and some pharmacies, which are part of the public limited liability company — it has benefited from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u242	Mr Mere and the other representatives who, earlier in this debate, have appealed to this 11%: When you read statistics, it's incredibly important to know what you read. For example, when reading this statistics on the tax burden of the most well-paid, it is good to remember that, in general, income tax is a relatively small tax item in the state budget, and if we look at the overall tax rate of the various income categories, the picture becomes quite different. That is why it is intended to talk only about income tax. It is also often forgotten that a significant part of the wealth of the richest comes from inheriting, that is, not from own work. Amongst other things, Esko Seppänen writes quite thoroughly about this. Let us also forget that taxation for the richest is regressive. When we look at the highest income, it pays taxes a little less than the next highest income class, or cone, turns down up there. Then it is forgotten that most of these most well - incomed people live in other stages of their lives in another income category. Our system works so that when you are of working age and at work, you pay more taxes when you are young and studying or old and retired, then you are on the receiving side and usually also in those lower income deciles. In our system, the majority of income transfers take place during a life cycle, not from groups of people to others, and therefore only one year's review of who pays and who receives is misleading. Above all, it is good to wonder whether we are really all part of this richest tithe of incomes, in a really terrible poverty trap.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u243	Mr President! The Government has chosen a line of specific measures, specific measures to increase work. Congressman Kiljunen: I brought up the government proposal 135. The government's proposal now before us will reduce taxation, which means that it will also increase the purchasing power of our taxpayers. 30 million will be allocated separately to those population groups that cannot be affected by this government proposal, precisely to those who are less well-off. I would also like to highlight these low-income groups, especially our single-parent families, where there will also be a second entry. With regard to early childhood education fees, there will be a reduction of almost EUR 700 for these single parents on low incomes. It is a very significant sum in the household of a low-income family of children.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u244	Mr President! However, the fact that, after all this debate, it is not true that this tax profile, which is precisely the government's overall tax solution, does not find such an element as to be fair in some way to the benefit of those on low and medium incomes in particular, but it is a fact that has been acknowledged here too: the equal percentage point for all means that the high-income leader is generously given a tax reduction and the lower-income assistant, the cook or the driver then receives very little. This is the fact, and this is the tax profile chosen by the government, and, as I said, it is no wonder that the Coalition Party supports this tax policy, but it has been a small miracle and perhaps even a surprise that the Finns here, for example, are defending it with even greater sound. What do you think now is that the ordinary citizen or pensioner there, although Mr Siwalla thinks that, before the elections, there was a great deal of promise to stand up for the poor people and then the results are exactly the opposite, that the number of people receiving pensions will fall by the majority and, overall, unemployment benefit will be cut? It's sad, but it's true. Here we go. When we look at this famous apothecary reduction here, for example, Timo Harakka made an excellent speech and slightly opened the picture, we also have these calculations of the information service, which show that this also favours the people of the upper income categories most, and, as I said, so much, the majority of this reduction goes to the highest income levels. Here's the deal. The profile could have looked different in this. Is there even a job-creating effect on this? The Legislative Review Council notes that: that does not necessarily increase competitiveness, and here we go. No positive impact on employment through these solutions and no element of fairness, which
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u247	Mr President! I would like to say to Mr Kontula that I did not deliberately choose anything at all. I took this Sitra study here, it hit me, and it says here that we are talking about direct taxes, how this has been calculated, and it says that these taxes have been taxed on capital income tax, municipal tax and health insurance contributions. I haven't written this so I can't say it then. I think Sitra has had quite good, objective statistics. It was not intended at all, however, that I should like to point out that such a group of people who earn some 50,000 a year — and EUR 2700, according to this statistics, have the right to receive tax reductions on account of this particular kiky agreement. Pia Viitanen spoke of ordinary citizens. I think he's just an ordinary citizen. I can't understand what he's thinking. He thinks it's nice that even after years, I get a tax cut, I work a lot, I'm committed to a longer day. My colleagues from the state administration have told me how they have been involved in this, even if the government and municipal officials are taken twice. They lose holiday money and then these payments, so that they are in an unequal position. Yes, they have also earned a small tax reduction. I remember so many years when I've been watching you guys on the board, too. Always just a tax increase, a tax increase, a tax increase. Is that what you're saying? That this country will be resolved once and for all? Separately, there are investments in low incomes, but it must be remembered that I do not know very many income transfers, at least from these ordinary transfers, which come to middle income, other than child benefits.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u248	Mr President! I think that restricting the examination to the decisions taken now alone is unhistorical and, in some way, dishonest, because it ignores all the decisions that have been made and that have been made in the past, which will have an impact in the present and in the future, unless otherwise decided separately. Finland has one of the most balanced income distributions in Europe and the world at the same time. In a Europe-wide comparison, Finland's income distribution is seventh even and the EU's income distribution is fifth even. The risk of poverty and exclusion among Finns is the fifth in Europe and the third lowest in the EU countries. In various contexts, there have been comparisons of the amount of direct taxes paid by those in which income brackets. In this respect, it has been rightly pointed out that indirect taxes should also be taken into account because they are regressive, i.e. they are directed towards low incomes in proportion to high incomes, and that VAT, for example, as a source of government revenue, is now more significant than income tax. This is true, but it is equally true that because high incomes consume more than low incomes, they also pay, in absolute terms, much more indirect taxes than low incomes. High income earners also buy more expensive similar goods than low incomes, which increases the share of indirect taxes they pay. Perhaps the most important aspect, Mr President, is that the tax and benefit changes decided by the current government are aimed at increasing the competitiveness of Finnish work in relation to competing countries, i.e. getting more work for Finns and more Finns for work. This will be of greatest benefit to those whose work has lost most competitiveness due to unfavourable productivity and cost developments in the 21st century, i.e. low and medium incomes. At the same time, the reforms of the government's agenda are aimed at. When the labour market is not functioning in a sufficiently flexible and efficient way, the only cost element that can often be adjusted is the amount of labour. Meeting these challenges is difficult or impossible, unless the relative benefits of those working as a result of tax and benefit changes also increase compared to those in employment. A reduction in income tax for the higher income categories is also justified. Finland fines the work of higher productivity considerably more severely than Sweden, for example. Mr President! Tight progress effectively takes the incentives to improve living standards with your own diligence, self-improvement and seeking the most demanding tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u249	Mr President! I would like to comment once again, mainly on the previous speech, that it is a sad fact that, when money is scarce and it is said that we really must all live scarcely, compromise on our own, it is extraordinary, it is then extraordinary that we have enough tax relief reserve, unexpectedly, for the most high-income people: forest gifts, reductions in pharmacies for the high-income groups, all of this. It will then be extraordinary, there will be room for a reduction in the taxation of millions of inheritances, and what you will say to the unemployed: you will say we have no money, we will now cut unemployment security. It should be said yes that there are times, there are customs, as has sometimes been said here, quite rightly. And, Mr President, it is so that this book
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u250	Mr President! I'll answer to Mr. Mere. I'll be honest with you, I think it's very nice to get tax cuts and I'm sure I can find a way to use that money. But when it happens at the same time as cutting off many of my acquaintances who live near that minimum income support limit, I am not afraid. In this situation, I think it is unreasonable for all of us in this Chamber to be part of the richest, most well-off tithe. This tithe on good income receives 10% of income transfers. Some of them consist of old-age pensions, but without it the figure is 5.6 per cent, which I think is quite a hard figure, given that it is the richest thing to find in the kingdom. At the same time, this same group uses education services the most, but also benefits more from the training they receive. We have research into the fact that with a similar degree, similar grades, the child of a rich family gets a much more productive career than a child from a poor family. We still know from research that this same group is also privileged in our health system. Everyone who uses occupational health care in Parliament knows how well they are, but there is also a comparison of the OECD countries, according to which the Finnish health system is in international comparisons with the jumblers there, together with the USA and Estonia. In this situation, it seems only unreasonable for us to take advantage of the interests of any kind, according to the judgements of the fairness of any direction of the cause.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u251	Mr. Speaker! By this government, we have already approached the EUR 1000 duty-free income. At the beginning of this year, the VAT was abolished at around 300,000 of the lowest incomes. It was a step in that direction, and through the reduction in earnings, another step was taken. Mr. Speaker! I dug up here, and it was not difficult now, Chairman of the Finnish Finance Minister Antti Rinte's press conference on 20 March 2015, i.e. one month before the election. At the time, the SDP promised that it would make cuts of EUR 3 billion by cutting spending by EUR 2 billion and increasing taxes by EUR 1 billion. Then, when he was handing out what is being cut off, the savings of 800 million on the slope would come from government contributions to the municipalities. It was also found that, according to Rinne, the tax rate can be increased by half a per cent. And then, of course, this issue of debt, when you listed it: when you do not want to take these measures now, it will lead to debt. The government will not pass on responsibility to future generations, nor will taxes destroy the economy or bring down responsibility to future generations by indebtedness.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u252	Mr President! I do not wish to continue with this nonsense, but perhaps Mr Kontula did not listen to what I was saying. After all, he is well aware of the statistics — and I appreciate his expertise — but I hope he will be able to listen to what I say. I didn't say I wanted to take advantage of myself. I didn't underestimate the low-income. I told you about this set of Sitra statistics and the figures and the average wages that came from it when you said in your earlier speech that I was looking for something. I'm just telling you what I'm gonna find and what's coming out of it. I was talking about a group of people — my colleagues in government agencies — who are secretaries, inspectors, very middle-income and low-income people, and they have told me that they are now paying a quite large share in this kiky agreement and are glad that they are getting a small tax reduction after years. From this speech, I cannot understand where I detract from the fact that a person has difficult or difficult interests for me. I wasn't talking about me at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u253	Mr President! Mr Kankaanniemi raised a good point of view on this matter, the so-called option of the Social Democrats. I remember during the last term of the government when I was in the city council, and I spoke in which I accused the government of increasing costs of EUR 5 billion or of exporting state subsidies to the municipalities. I have not had to make such speeches this season; on the contrary, I have been able to thank the government for giving the municipalities choice and opportunities to organise their services. Is this really the socialist and left-wing option of cutting local government shares and forcing municipalities to cut their services and/or increase their tax rates even further from unsustainable levels? They are equal taxes, they are out of the lowest incomes, much more than the state tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u254	Mr President! It is true that the option of the SDP would by no means cut off municipal services, for example, which I think the government is planning very cruelly now, such as, for example, the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u255	Mr President! I am sorry, Mr Meri, if I misunderstood what target group you were talking about. I assumed that you would continue to talk about this 11% which we discussed earlier when you justified tax reductions. But if it was a question of tax reductions for office secretaries, I do not believe that neither I nor the Left Alliance have much criticism of tax reductions in this group. Personally, as the most urgent tax reform, I would consider the introduction of capital income tax into the progressive process, which would reduce significantly the current tax burden on the income of office secretaries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u256	Mr President! I would also like to say so much about these municipal services myself that it is absolutely essential that municipal services are secured under all circumstances. It is about people and people's everyday life and the local services that are produced in municipalities. That is why, when we talk about the finances of municipalities and that the municipalities are doing well, in practice, the background must remember that when decisions are made there, those decisions mainly concern municipal people, children, adults, the unemployed and the sick. For this reason, I am very concerned about the general line that is being taken under the leadership of the government, that is to say that responsibility is being transferred from municipal services, for example, to carers, relatives, relatives and people themselves. One aspect of this is also the increase in customer fees related to this entity. The big concern now is that when the government's will has not been carried out in various parts of Finland, such as the increase of these customer fees by 30 per cent, but only the necessary index checks have been carried out, for example, this is not enough for the government; instead, the government is going to implement legislation to force municipalities and hospital districts into these customer fees increases and justify the fact that local authorities are now in a different position because of this government's decision. In some municipalities, such as South Karelia, customer fees were not increased by 30 per cent, but only index checks were carried out, but then there are municipalities where 30 per cent increases were made, and in that respect, municipal finances and people in that respect have been placed in a very unequal position by this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u257	Mr President! After all, the government has already taken these measures, for example, to increase the progress of a large capital tax even this season, and there may be more to come. But to what Mr Viitanen gave false proof of the government's actions in relation to, for example, nurseship, or to what the Social Democrats have previously accused the government of day care or customer fees: these are all totally false accusations in the sense that the government has not forced the municipalities to do these things, but, on the contrary, has given them the opportunity to deal with them in the municipality with smarter and better freedom, if the municipalities are able to do so, and if there is such a will to carry them out. So it is not money that has been taken away and more obligations have been created, but more freedoms have been given. This happened in Lappeenranta, for example, when the Social Democrats opposed the removal of the subjectivity of day care and the change in the size of the groups, but then there was no money to be made available for the implementation of the budget. In other words, it is easy to demand when you do not have to tell us where to take the money, whether it is taken from taxes and from the taxpayer's purse.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u258	Mr President! I'm not sure I just heard the news. I'm not sure I just heard the news. Of course, if it is the case that the government does not intend to count the carer’s size to 0.4, then it is a good thing. That is a good thing if the government does not intend to do so, but in fact the government has said it will, at least until now, and this will certainly be the subject of debate in this Chamber today. If the money is taken away and 0.4 is set as the norm, that's what it means. Mr President! There's always a choice. The True Finns could now recall the Wahlroos tax they demanded last season. I'm sure it's the same thing as this robinhood tax that the center required last season. It was a disappointment to us, as we know, that Robin Hood was not marching out of the forest, but rather the Sheriff of Nottingham, and that is what happened here. After all, last season there was an increase in the solidarity tax, a rise in the capital tax, and that was also the way in which this adjustment was made on the tax side. In this option of ours, the tax rate will not rise; we would simply make these tax decisions in another way, a little fairer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u263	Mr President! I had to take this message from Mr Mäkelä. The fact is that the government is laying down the lines of the kingdom as to how, for example, people’s welfare services are secured in this kingdom. And if, for example, the government proposes a 30% increase in the customer fee to municipalities, then the government will consciously take the risk and the line that it enables the customer fee in South Karelia to be different from that in Päijät-Häme or Rovaniemi, for example. And in so far as the government then finds it — when the will of the government is not being respected — that this inequality is growing, the government is taking a new line, the decision that it will force these customer charges to be increased in various parts of Finland, which can then be said that inequality will not increase in the same yardstick, but in any case the well-being of people and access to services — that inequality will increase. In addition to this, the approach is to reduce this human resources, which in practice means that experts have already shown that it is practically impossible if basic human protection is implemented in accordance with the Constitution. And in this respect, there are weakenings and responsibilities of multiprofessional geriatric professional competence, and Mr Mäkelä says that this brings flexibility to municipalities, that municipalities have the opportunity to reduce basic services for people. I have to say that this is quite an amazing policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u264	Mr President! Representative Viitanen, the property tax was abolished, the folded index was introduced. Representative The Kankaanniemi made a long story about what the Social Democrats have done before. The purpose of the government and the Finns are to save the welfare state. Its remains remain, and now we have to save ourselves from the previous governments, where the handprint of the SDP has been seen, and a very high grade of praise cannot be given to you. But is it not the aim of all of us that this employment is good in Finland and that we build a welfare state so that the welfare state plays so that we remember and are able to help the underprivileged and all the people and that we have all the good things? It is based on improving employment. And this nanny thing, too. When you have a demanding ward, you will probably see to it that there is no reduction in the amount of care taken. We have to see where those demanding patients are, there really can't be any reduction in staff.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u265	Mr President! We must defend Mr Kiljunen's point of view on this. Mr Mäkelä's speech on the exemptions granted to these municipalities in relation to the size of the staff or the increase in customer fees: This means that the state will cut the funding of municipalities in this respect and, in this respect, will guide municipalities to reduce this. Personally, I do not see that it makes it very possible to cut funding if they are implemented, but it is a clear choice of values from the government that these things will be cut off, and the municipalities will be forced to act on this issue. And I'd like to fix this. Here, after I have followed the debate, perhaps I would like to emphasise more strongly the value choice that has been highlighted in this reading of the Income Tax Act: the government is clearly cutting off the low incomes, and this purchasing power of the low-income will, as it were, be reduced to these different customer charges and other increases, and it is clearly intended to place greater emphasis on the livelihoods of the best-performing people. And perhaps this is the core issue that the opposition is calling for here, and the impact on employment. I am also perhaps sorry that the government does not respond directly to this or admits this very clear fact.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u266	Mr President! On the other hand, I find the fact that local democracy is being devalued here. Local municipal officials have chosen the delegates there, and they do different weighing. For example, the reform of social security has been designed to reflect on that local democracy. I myself have also been involved in the Association of Local and Regional Authorities' study in Uusimaa, and it was precisely in this area that the key factor was how to safeguard local democracy, because people who are close to us know the situation best. I do not quite understand the idea of forcing municipalities to decide something. I have been on the municipal council myself all this time since 2012 and I have not felt that I have been forced to do anything. In Hyvinkää, we introduced this possibility of subjective day care in the city of Hyvinkää, but we stressed that there should be a very low threshold to the fact that if a family needs that full-time day care, it will be available. On the other hand, I myself am opposed to increasing group sizes, and we are coming to the city board for this increase in group sizes. In fact, I am not going to increase the size of the group, because I believe that when we introduced the reduction in the right to day care, I want to see sufficient staff there and, in particular, we will use the tools that we have been given. I do not feel that I have been forced, and I am very proud that we have a close democracy. Let's not underestimate it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u267	Mr President! The question of local government finances is interesting. During the last period, when you cut the government shares of municipalities extremely heavily, this led to the fact that the municipalities had to lay off staff, and then again it led to an increase in the number of groups and the size of the carers throwing bulldozers — if this expression is allowed to be used here. So your cutting policy led to a deterioration in the quality and quantity of services in the municipalities. Now the situation is that the government with this budget will strengthen the local government economy, and when employment is strengthened, it will also generate more revenue for municipalities. And still: this budget book does not include, for example, a reduction in pension contributions in the pension decision, which is about to happen. In other words, the local government finances are getting stronger, and the municipalities will then have no need to cut staff from the services of the elderly or from anywhere else, but to keep them at work, even taking on more when the finances give it to them. So the conclusion is that you led the municipalities to lay off and reduce the number of people and to reduce services and increase taxes, the tax on low incomes. And now the opposite is the case: municipal services that are vital to families with children, to the elderly, to the sick are now better served by the state. This is the big change you have to admit. Congressman Jani Mäkelä said quite correctly: now she does not have to make the kind of speeches at the Lappeenranta City Council as she was supposed to do last season.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u268	Mr President! Representative Nurminen spoke of the government’s choice of values in the sense that this time it would now be given to the rich and taken away from the poor. We must certainly look at a little history in the sense that we actually made an adjustment of EUR 6 billion last season, in which we cut 3 and then raised taxes by EUR 3 billion. Well, this increase of 3 billion meant that we actually have a progressive tax rate in certain categories, including those of representative Nurminen's age who are well-off, living alone, which is about 6 to 7% higher than in Sweden, for example. They're smart people who think what I'm doing here anymore, I can go abroad and make a lot more money with my own expertise. Unfortunately, there are thousands and thousands of these people at the moment and they are not coming back to Finland, they are staying on the road. First, we train them with hundreds and hundreds of thousands, then we increase taxes and banish them abroad. I do not think that this is a good development,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u269	Mr President! All in all, it is a little sad in itself that now that we are looking at the past, it is very difficult here to look at the past achievements of the Finns. On the other hand, if we start to list, it is of course possible to list a great deal of disillusioned electoral promises. That's the way it is. For example, tax cuts are now being cut for millions of inheritances and, at the same time, the elderly are being cut. A lot of people have been wondering about this line. But, President-in-Office, at this end, because time has passed, I have a very constructive proposal. If, for example, in the coming days, the government parties were to look closely at these calculations of the information service, which show that those who earn more than seven tonnes are getting the greatest reduction in purchasing power and that almost all pensioners are losing their purchasing power — you would now look at these facts — then perhaps you would end up with the fact that this tax profile still needs to be corrected, and you could correct these earlier decisions. This would have all the support of the Social Democrats. Mr Kankaanniemi could, although perhaps he would like to think again about what the Socialists are doing tonight, be aware of these lists of your own which you have here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u272	Mr President! To Mr Mäkelä next to this, I would like to comment to the extent that if the state shares are cut, there will not be much freedom of choice for the municipalities. In other words, if municipalities receive state aid for a 0.4 measure, in many municipalities this will result in the minimum recommendation becoming the maximum. And now I already know such municipalities or, in fact, care communities, about which I have been told that there are now messages coming from there, that from the beginning of next year the staff will be reduced, because the government has promised to reduce the size of the staff. Municipalities do not have a lot of freedom of choice in such situations to make them their own flexible solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u273	Mr President! Representative Wallinheimo said that all my own age move out of Finland because of the tax burden. I am thinking about this for a moment and I am thinking that I do not recognize that there is much of a phenomenon like this. Most people of my own age are more concerned about these educational cuts and are concerned about future cuts for low incomes. It must also be acknowledged that the vast majority of young people — and also a large proportion of those trained — are unemployed, without work. From my own thoughts and how I feel about this field, I did not recognize the idea you brought out of this. But perhaps I should like to finish by saying that I do not think that we can make these things young versus old, but that young generations want to take responsibility, they want fair tax decisions. In that sense, these decisions of the present time, which you have justified so that those who are well-off simply have to reduce taxation so that they do not change the poies, do not, in my view, reflect the values of young people today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u274	Mr President! In my opinion, this government's approach to income tax reductions is at least correct in its main principles and will strengthen Finnish employment in the long term. However, I would like to continue the debate on the status of municipalities, on which representatives Mäkelä, Meri and Kankaanniemi have already spoken. After all, according to the Government Programme, municipalities will not be subject to any substantial new obligations or, if they do, the costs will also be fully reimbursed to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u280	Let us give Mr Viitane an immediate reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u281	President! Of course the Social Democrats are in favour of a solidarity tax. That's exactly what we did last season. But we have been concerned, as Mrs Harakka, among others, mentioned in this debate before, that you have strangely done this equation of yours, that the increase in the solidarity tax is supposed to come out of the fact that you extend the reduction in earnings to a very large extent. A person who earns more than 100 tonnes a year will continue to receive a reduction in his earnings and thus the synergy will work in such a way that, for example, a person at a parliamentary level will not pay in practice any solidarity tax. No, it doesn't exist anymore. That is what you are doing in this option, and that is why the Social Democrats in their own option will make a different model for this solidarity tax, as we did in this budget book.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u282	Mr President! When we started this debate on social welfare and local government finances, let's go now. This is a little out of scale and money. When billions are being talked about in the mess and in the sustainability gap that the reform should fill, this is now being said about 70 million. They are a little different sums of money that we need to change and rationalise over the years. If we are talking about this matter of carer size, according to the Government Programme, half of those affected by this item need a lot of care and services, and thus the relaxation of the personnel size could affect up to about half of the customers and spread over time. The situation today is that the dimension is a recommendation and is on average exceeded by the social services providers, which means that they believe that these services must be produced in a different way than the minimum recommended, and I am sure that it will continue to be so, because I believe that there are responsible and knowledgeable people in the social services circles — not all wisdom, by any means, lives at the state level. I do not believe that this will necessarily have a direct practical impact on the nursing dimension, which would be seen in the day-to-day care work, and with the regional reform this will be an increasingly important part of the service level to be decided at the regional level, a place for local development, how these issues can be handled there more effectively and rationally. With regard to the use of apprentices, students and non-vocational social and health care professionals who are included in the staff in their duties, I believe that the relaxation of this dimension and division of tasks will provide a good opportunity, for example, for measures that are not entirely therapeutic, i.e. taking an elderly person outdoors, to be treated more rationally than is currently the case. It doesn't take years of training. These are all measures that can achieve cost savings without undermining services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u283	Mr President! I had to check Mr Nurminen's age here, and yes, the fact is that thousands and thousands of young people are leaving Finland today, who are exactly 25 to 34 years old, and this group is growing. Many of them feel that Finnish taxation is currently so high that they go elsewhere to get their incentives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u286	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u287	Mr President! So much could actually continue this debate on certain tax choices, that the government is now proposing changes to these fuel taxes, and that means, among other things, that the government is proposing an increase in the gas tax. Of course, before in this Chamber we have reminded the Finns of what they said earlier about these increases in the gas tax, and it is surprising that even the Finns have now agreed to increase the gas tax. Last season, opposition leader Soini said, among other things, that the gas tax is an equal tax, and the pump does not ask how much is an account or a pension, the same is a price. It's an equal tax, we need an equal payment, that's all we can do. These were spoken then, and even then, even at the beginning of the reign, when the Finns of Peru listed their own achievements in government negotiations and elsewhere, so it was well told that no gas tax would rise. Of course, in that sense it was amazing and surprising that now even the Finns of Peru have gone into this and are raising the gas tax. Of course, this in itself is no surprise when, for example, you remember that debate, where all the other tax lines were going. Before the elections there was talk of a Wahlroos tax, and now these tax solutions go quite the other way around. The reduction in the tax burden on millions of inheritances is something that has been praised here, and the chairman of the parliamentary group seemed to be very enthusiastic about this line of taxation. There are also many tax deductions, which, however, go clearly to the most fortunate ones, are defended and then cut off the unemployed and cut off students, families with children and others at the same time. — — — — I'm just surprised how this happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u288	Mr. Speaker! That is where I read President Rinne's election promises, and he said that the Social Democrats want to raise the overall tax rate by half a percentage point. It was, of course, big news, and the Social Democrats then led to a violent election defeat, and the second reason for the election loss, as I see it, was this drastic reduction in corporation tax, which was, therefore, the result for the companies that are doing the best, they received hundreds of millions of annual tax cuts. Last autumn, you proposed, among other things, a Nordic financial tax in your alternative budget. I'm sure you'll be presenting it again this year, I think about three hundred million had to come out of it this year, but you still had the Nordic model of financial taxes that depended on Swedish decisions, i.e. other Nordic countries, Sweden and perhaps Norway,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u289	Mr President! I have listened here to Mr. Viitanen’s words and accusations against the Finns of Peru, when in what way. I honestly confess that during the last parliamentary term, when I remember being a socialist finance minister, I had no idea how badly the country's economy was, how horrendous the country's economy was after you, the previous government. Now that this state of the economy has been realised, or we have understood what model it is on, the economy will have to be filled with various tax collections, and this fuel tax is one of them. And when you, in many of your speeches, have criticised the fact that the government, and especially the Finns of Peru, wants to take from the poor and give to the rich, at least this fuel tax, as you have just mentioned, is equal to the tax, that is to say, the pump, regardless of the quality or condition of the purse, will cost everyone just as much. That, at least here, it cannot be said that this would favour the poor or the rich, all of them paying the same amount. And we understand
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u292	Mr President! This tax increase is by no means desirable, and we must go back to why we have come to this, why we are now raising this tax. In my own view, it is because there is again a problem where the EU is. So when you can't make an increase in the sweets tax and the ice cream tax and you have to fix it with something, Mr President! Now that the Social Democrats in this Chamber are making noise and criticising this too, you would now have a place to make a public commitment to the fact that, in due course, when you are next in government responsibility, you will be calculating this tax. Do you commit to it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u293	Mr President! Now it's gone crazy. Now it's gone crazy. So here the Finns of Finland are going against their election promises, you are now doing it, and then you are demanding — except that you bark at the SDP from previous years with all kinds of words and hours — that "so, then, sometimes, when you are in the government, yes, you will, yes, you will again count this gas tax, which we, the Finns of Finland, but from fools, raised." It's not going to happen, look, it's not going to make sense of this equation. You're in the grip of power now, and if you raise the gas tax, you'll be taking full responsibility for it now. I happened to ask what your argument for this is when, in the run-up to the election, you spoke differently, but when you listened to Mr Kankaanniemi again, the minute was used to thrash the SDP — not a word about the gas tax or the basic Finns' line. So, in the next speech, the Finns told us that it was an equal tax, and so it is, and that is precisely why Soini was against it last season when it was poor enough to pay with the pump just as much as it was rich for that gas. That was the question, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u294	Mr. Speaker! I remember that when this was agreed in the government, it was put in the back, that when the price of crude oil exceeds a certain amount of dollars, then the matter will come back to us, but this is not, of course, a positive thing. When the price of crude oil was much higher than it is now, your government inherited much more of it than the price of crude oil, at least VAT and also fuel tax, and your policy led to a really high price. Now it's much lower, and that's how it's not going to get any closer to you than it was when you were responsible. Of course, this is an unfortunate measure, but on the other hand, such a small increase, as is the case here, is divided into a very large number of payers, and thus the burden on the individual consumer is not very great. In the last period, for example, the increase in municipal tax that you have caused is much greater today than this increase, which, of course, I do not think is good in itself, but money must be made available, and your policy in particular would require much more of it. As I said in the previous speech, what is your alternative to this and to others? Are you again offering Swedish policy, or some kind of Nordic tax that we cannot introduce even in three years, not to mention that it would make the 2017 budget even? What is the Rinte tax package that he promised the people at the time of the election and with which he lost the election?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u295	Mr President! In fact, Mr Kankaanniemi spoke very well about the situation that if the price of oil changes, it is possible to react to and return to this tax as well. But I did not quite understand what Mr Viitane said just now. Have you been voted here in the hall to criticize the Finns? I could not find any substance in your speech other than pecking the Finns, digging up election promises and taking a stand on what the Finns do and say.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u297	Mr President! I have listened very carefully to this debate, and I am sure that these discussions will be reminiscent of years and decades ago. Of course, it would be good to ask, though it is not worth asking why you did not treat the 300,000 unemployed. You left it with this current government. And then no one could guess the huge number of asylum seekers who are now paying 800 million this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u300	Mr President! There is a debate here on taxation. Taxation is really a whole thing. I personally believe that it is the reduction in the tax burden on labour that is important from the employment point of view and elsewhere. Of course, we should tax them, as has been said here, which are harmful, such as the sweets and sugar tax, but this has become a problem in the EU and we have had to look for alternatives in order to maintain the balance of the budget, and then we have ended up with this proposal, which, admittedly, has its own difficulties. All such taxes and taxes in general are also circumvented by the export costs of our production, and in that sense these are challenging. I well understand that in this way, however, the government will have to look after the whole and the income side too. In that sense, as a whole, I do not understand what is going on here about the direction of the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u301	Mr President! We, as Social Democrats, have specifically asked for what justification the Finns have for the fact that they are now raising the gas tax when they promised the public otherwise. If the Finns don't believe it, then I don't know if people are talking to you, but yes, I've had many times that when I go to the marketplaces and talk to people, I've come to ask why the Finns are doing this now when they were speaking differently in the elections. I believe that the citizens have the right to ask, we parliamentarians have the right to ask when we need to answer these too, Mr President. Then there was the simple question: Why is this being done? Why are the Finns willing to do this? Then I heard from the interlude that "well, when the government needs money."
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u305	Mr President! A direct question was asked as to why fuel taxes would be raised. I too, when I'm going around the field, I've told you why it's being raised. I have told people that I had no idea how bad the Finnish economy was at the end of the last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u308	Mr. Speaker! Perhaps we should think again now, but let me say that taxes are generally collected in order to cover government expenditure. And you, for example, want so much more government spending. In the last period, these expenditures were covered by debt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u311	Mr President! The increase in fuel tax is not a nice thing, I must admit it is difficult. But as the Finns of Finland, Mäkelä, Savio, Mäkipää, Kangasniemi, among other things, have presented why the Finns of Finland have joined the government, the reason is that our country is in a difficult situation. We have so many major problems which the governments have never had before, such as this immigration is one, but it is not the only ones that bring in additional charges for which we were none of us were prepared. And a responsible policy must be made. And Social Democrats, you have been as long as I remember in previous governments, except now you are not. These big problems have gradually accumulated, grown, and a year ago there were more of these problems. We are in an unusually difficult situation. The global economy is in a difficult situation, Finland too. Now we need a responsible policy and we need to get out of this swamp. I therefore hope that the Social Democrats and all the parties will now participate constructively in solving the problems and bringing the whole of Finland to a better place. I believe that all representatives have the right to do so and everyone has the will to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u312	Mr President! It's about this constructiveness. Of course, everyone wants constructive debate, constructive policy, responsibility. That is also what we Social Democrats want, and that is why we have presented our alternative budget and we will do the same this autumn, because it is certainly fair for the citizens too that people are offered different options. And we have a different option, a few different value choices, that has now become unusually clear here in the last four hours. And this time, unfortunately, the answer of the Finns-based is for the unemployed when unemployment benefit is cut, there is no money and Finland is in a difficult situation and we are in debt, but at the same time it turns out that in fact indebtedness does not decrease. On the contrary, debt is being increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u316	Mr President! You can hear a lot of claims here in these tax debates. Mr Kankaaniemi, who has developed into an excellent economic politician, said quite rightly that during the last parliamentary term, when reforms were not introduced, no decisions were taken on implementation but, at the same time, taxed, the tax burden was increased, in a way, the economy also collapsed. After all, this is a historic turn of events when the tax rate turned down. I think it is right that labour taxation should be reduced here, because that is the biggest tax problem I have in Finland when it comes to increasing employment. We need to see this whole thing. As far as debt is concerned, Mr President, we must remember, however, how it should be calculated. When 50,000 children are born in Finland and we take over 5 billion dollars in debt, next year, when Finland turns 100, we will place in each child’s maternity kit a bill of debt of over 100,000 euros. That is something we cannot continue to do, and that is why this path of reform is very important. Congressman Viitanen, I do not believe in your alternative budget. I have read it last year, hopefully it will be more realistic this year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u319	Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to the effects of this decision on a normal person. It has to be said that this is the most intense of all for sparsely populated rural areas, and when we know the realities of how services are getting farther and farther away, this is increasingly targeting people in rural areas. A lot has been said about this equal tax element here, and I personally see it strongly that, although poor and rich pay the same amount, the increase in income is stronger for low incomes, as is the case with equal taxes in general. In addition to this, I would also like the Government to make efforts to develop public transport and thus improve public transport connections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u320	Mr President! It is true that tax policy can easily be the opposite, even during the same speech, but when it comes to these different priorities, which the government has chosen, they are the line of action that seeks to mobilise Finland. It is true that there are details that can sting, and hopefully there is, and it is, for example, in the tax cuts, those reductions are clearly targeted at the low and middle income categories, where something small positive has been achieved there. It is true that fuel tax increases will hit all low incomes, of course, but we must remember that big line: we must not raise the tax rate in this country any further. It is a heavenly fact that if we tighten taxes, we will become increasingly distant from the goal of making this country’s economy run and creating new jobs. If we imagine that by tightening taxation we can achieve this goal, I would like to see a more in-depth examination of this issue. The only way to deal with this is to keep the internal market in its own country in order and at the same time try to use all the means by which export ports start to take place, Finnish products go on the market even better and create genuine growth barriers from that export market. Even the domestic market will not forever be drawn to the export market. It is clear that the decline is also taking place on the domestic market. Finally, Mr President, if we really want more of that export revenue in this country, then we must take care of this whole thing. It is true that, in this great Chamber of Parliament, we can argue over a little detail, even to the bottom of the world, but if that big line disappears, just as in the planning process, we will never get there and finish it successfully. So the big line keeps in mind, and the government has one, and the first signs of growth and new export trade exist, which I see, however,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u321	Mr President! Just a few things when the effect of the Social Democrats has seemed so enormous that I feel just like it when I listen to these speeches that we would have been through many times in the government alone. It must be pointed out that, unfortunately, the Social Democrats have not been more than 50% of this parliamentary force, but have been a member of the government and the second largest party in the last four years — not eight years, but four previous years. When it was said somehow that it was not known what the situation in the previous period was, we have all had that same book in use both in the previous period and this season. All the facts about how the economy is going to be found there now as it was two years ago. I don't know any other book anyone else has used so far. We have not proposed an increase in the overall tax rate at this point. The Social Democrats have always believed that progress should be made, and preferably as strong as possible, in order to balance this with people's lives. When it is said that nothing was done, we had quite major structural changes last season, but the legend that nothing was done seems to be ground in the mouth and speeches of a few colleagues all the time. One aspect of this issue is the fuel tax: A regulation has now been adopted in which an unemployed person, 80 kilometres away, has to take up a job. However, for this group of people, for example, there is quite a lot of fuel if there is an increase in fuel, driving it 100 miles [160 km] a day in order to get at least a few hours of work for themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u322	Mr President! I would ask Mr Paatero, for example, to Google the 'Antti Rinne' and the 'cut list', and there is an article in the Evening Sanomat, which also contains on video the fact that President Rinne said one month before the parliamentary elections that the Social Democrats are raising half a percentage point of tax. It would be disastrous for this Finnish economy to increase taxation further. Well, then, how is the tax allocation involved, this proposal will increase the price of motor gasoline by about 2.12 cents per litre and diesel oil by 2.41 cents per litre. Of course, it is a dramatic increase, but now that the fuel price is really much lower than it was, for example, three or four years ago, this is not quite so unreasonable. And, of course, this affects a lot of other things. Perhaps those duties have not yet been tightened up, as Mr Paatero said, but of course the government plans to take these measures, but it is likely that if a person does not have a car, he will not be obliged, and if he has a car, he will be able to travel a little better, looking for that job elsewhere. But, of course, it hurts. But still, Mr President, this debate leaves the Socialist option completely open. Where do you take the tax revenue that you claim when you present in every section the increase of hundreds of millions and the increase in debt to the government's proposal less, that is, a complete change in the policy of the last parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u323	Mr President! This has already been said many times about these differences between us, and it is good that they exist. In fact, we are on the same track over the last period that, in these times, we should be able to take a little more from the good people, and that is why we raised the capital tax and made it progressive and, among other things, we levied a solidarity tax. I'm sorry we're doing the opposite. The taxation of millions of inheritances will be reduced and these pharmacy deductions, forest gifts and so on will be reduced, and all of these will now be sufficient for this government this season. There we are. As has been said — perhaps I am repeating for quite a few times today, but when asked again — we are making various tax decisions. We are not raising the tax rate, but we are levying taxes more fairly and, therefore, we also believe that we will achieve economic growth. And also, President-in-Office, we would immediately take effective employment measures, which would allow the wheels of the economy to spin. Here's our option, and it's good that, at the end of this debate, there's a line that the Finns of Peru think now that you can raise the gas tax. Of course, that would have been fair before the elections to tell us when the situation was known. At least I'm sure the president. Soini knew that this economic situation has not been good for many years and still has not. Then it would have been said that this will be the case, and not that this election vow will then be turned upside down.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u324	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u325	Mr President! If the aim is to promote health, it should be reflected in all decision-making. Rich sugar use is linked to many health problems and illnesses. Particular concern should be expressed about the use of sugar for children and young people, who are currently receiving around 14% of the total energy from sugar. From the beginning of next year, the sweets tax will apparently be abolished as a result of a notification by the EU Commission, which, according to the Commission, distorts competition between similar products and is contrary to State aid rules. The situation would probably change if the tax were not justified on the basis of state economic criteria, as is now being done, but as a basis for promoting public health. Such health-based taxes are currently in place in other European countries, and I therefore wonder why we should not use them, why we should not even deal with this issue. Instead of the mechanical abolition of the sugar tax, I would have liked to have seen a thorough examination of whether it could have been possible, for example, to change taxation in the direction of the sugar tax on the basis of the promotion of public health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u326	Mr President! I find it regrettable that the sweets tax in place is now being abandoned or limited to soft drinks only. This is regrettable from the point of view of public health, since the price has a significant steering effect. However, the result of the tax has been achieved in such a way that consumption has stabilised and even slightly decreased since the tax was introduced. The abolition of the tax is also regrettable for the national economy in the event of a loss of EUR 110 million per annum in tax revenues. Now that the prices of sweets and ice cream come down after the tax has been abolished, there is a fear that consumption will start to rise again, and that would be a very regrettable development in terms of public health and, in particular, in terms of the health of children and young people. The Government justifies the abolition of the tax on sweets by EU regulation and equal treatment of products. However, it should be noted that in many EU countries sweets and sugar-containing products are taxed. I therefore hope that instead of abolishing the sweets and ice cream tax, possible problems of equity will be solved by extending the tax to other sugary and unhealthy products, as has been done in other countries, and by justifying the use of the tax for public health reasons. I would like to see further reflection during the committee debate on the fact that instead of limiting and reducing this tax, if it were to be extended in the same way as in many other EU countries. It is justified that taxation should be directed towards the taxation of disadvantages. But the good thing about this bill is that unflavoured vegetable-based milk substitutes are no longer included in this tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u327	Mr President! This government proposal proposes to remove from the soft drinks tax unflavoured vegetable-based milk substitutes. This is a sound line. Furthermore, the exclusion of small producers is an excellent decision by the government. This tax should also be abolished for beverages containing significant quantities of plant-based raw materials. For example, drinks containing vegetable, fruit and berry raw materials are considered healthy and nutritious drinks for which consumption should be promoted. Some of these beverages are also not used in significant quantities of sugar. It is true that every time taxes are abolished or relaxed, it causes a gap in the treasury. However, one aspect of health promotion and disease prevention is: the abolition of the tax on beverages found to be healthy would also contribute to their consumption and, at the same time, to their health effects. This would also allow us to see savings in health expenditure, while supporting the operating conditions of the entrepreneurs involved in the food chain. From the point of view of public health, it would also be desirable to make beverages with health effects subject to tax relief.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u328	Mr President! I think that this proposal is problematic, as the representatives of Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Sarkkinen have said here, for example. The health problems of sugar are beyond doubt. For example, the WHO has stated that, from a health point of view, more than 5% of daily energy needs should not be consumed in the diet. The so-called sweets tax is also widely accepted in Finland, and although it is accused of a change in EU regulation, I believe that these arguments are not sustainable. In order to prevent a public health time bomb, the sweets tax pays and can be replaced by a health-based sugar tax. It would also be clearer than the current taxation. In this economic situation, the abolition of this tax is not justified. A new tax could be introduced very quickly and we could inform the EU Commission already at this point that we are about to change taxation, so we could continue with the current tax until the new tax is in force. A health-based sugar tax would also combat child obesity and tooth decay in other tastes and certainly save us money elsewhere. Such a tax is already in place, for example, in Denmark, Hungary and France, so I would imagine that there would be an agreement with the EU. In my view, Mr President, tax policy should not be obstinate, not to mention the fact that this abolition of the sugar tax without a compensatory sugar tax will cause the state to lose something else for which we could certainly come up with something else. When we consider, for example, that the cuts in vocational education and training are about 190 million, and we are already talking about 100 million dollars alone, I think it is appropriate to reconsider that we should find a way, together with the EU, to continue to make good and sensible taxation possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u329	Mr President! It is easy to agree with these speeches, which, first of all, complain and amaze the changes in this taxation. We have legislation in the European Union which would, however, allow for this type of taxation, such as Hungary, and there are many other countries here, for example, where sugar taxes have been used. Now that Mr Kalli is very highly esteemed here to take the floor, I would like him to explain in his own speech and to tell us whether the preparation has taken into account the public health aspect and the health impact at all. This would enable us to influence people's consumption behaviour and taxation to guide people's health behaviour in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u330	Mr President! As many colleagues have said, I too find this proposal quite challenging, particularly from the point of view of public health, and also because of these tax losses, because, as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, for example, pointed out, the use of sugar for children and young people is already very much in excess of the various recommendations, and we know that it is fiscally possible to control consumption. The fear is whether these will then replace other food of public health importance and thereby undermine public health reasons. As Mr Kiljunen has pointed out, I believe that we will be able to negotiate with the EU precisely from the point of view of taking these public health reasons as the first reason for this and considering other comparative elements of taxation that exist there. As has been pointed out here, this kind of health tax is used in Hungary among others. Such elements should also be considered in committee, because this is an important tax in itself, precisely as a tax on consumption.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u331	Mr President! My own view is that, regardless of the government base, we here today would have had a very similar tax. This is unquestionably due to the fact that the Ministry of Finance has been speeding up this issue for many years now and that something has had to be done. Whether there was another solution to be found that would have had health effects — for example, Hungary and some other countries have been mentioned here — I bet that this is probably not only in Finland but also in many other Member States. On this point, I agree that the health damage to sugar is clear, but there is, of course, also the other side. Here, too, I am partly in favour of Finnish work and the interests of the Finnish food industry and, in particular, the livelihoods of smaller companies. These are issues where wider solutions should be found at the level of the Union as a whole, so that such an issue would not be used in the interests of competition. This has to do with the previous issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u332	Mr President! European Union legislation concerns non-discriminatory products in the internal market, but there are certain things that go beyond this. Environmental issues, public health issues are one of the reasons why we are doing something different. And now that there are still examples of the fact that many Member States of the European Union have acted in such a way that these public health aspects have been brought to the fore, I wonder why this solution has not been reached in Finland as well. There is now a very strong feeling that we are going behind the back of the EU on an issue in which a different solution could have been made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u333	Mr President! Mr Kalli is right in saying that pressure will come from the EU to change this law, but instead of now suggesting that there is a significant restriction — in such a way that this law will no longer apply to sweets or ice cream — Finland would have every opportunity to change this taxation in such a way that this applies to products containing added sugar, which are harmful to public health and which are therefore intended to be subject to a special tax. This is what many other EU countries do, and many other EU countries have exactly the same EU regulation as Finland. So I am not quite in a position to buy this argument that there is no other option, because that is not true. Finland would have the option of changing this taxation on a health-based basis and extending the basis of taxation to other products containing added sugar, so that it really does feel strongly that we are now going behind the back of the EU for some reason.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u334	Mr President! Whether we want to support the interests of industry or public health depends entirely on political will. And if public health is not taken into account in decision-making, then it will increase health spending in the future. This bill in particular concerns children and young people because they use so much of these sugar products and it is detrimental to their future. For their use of sugar, for their use of sweets, the price would certainly be effective. There is hardly a great deal of disagreement about the unhealthy nature of sugar, and health-based harmful taxes are therefore an important means of improving public health, but at the same time they would also provide us with these tax revenues in a reasonable way. I wonder why we have not considered the possibility of moving forward on a health-based basis, i.e. using this public health perspective as a justification, when it has also been possible in other EU countries. I very much hope that the committee will reconsider the matter and even consider whether it will be possible to return to its original elements.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u335	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u336	Mr President! The aim of the proposal is to include liquids used in e-cigarettes in the scope of tobacco taxation, which is to be welcomed. With the entry into force of the new Tobacco Act, e-cigarettes and nicotine liquids used in them are now more freely placed on the Finnish market. At the same time, they were subject to regulation comparable to other tobacco products. This has been done to prevent children and young people or non-smokers from starting using e-cigarettes, which may subsequently also lead to smoking. And this extension of the tobacco tax to e-cigarettes can now support these objectives aimed at non-smoking Finland. Mr President! THL investigated smoking among young people, which was a positive reading. In 2015, 12 per cent of 9th grade boys and 10 per cent of girls had smoked daily in the last 30 days, while 4 years earlier the corresponding figures were 20 and 18 per cent. Tobacco has also been tried more and more, and the first experiments have taken place even later. Good development continues in the use of cigarettes, but at the same time it must be noted that electronic cigarettes as new products seem to be of interest to young people, which is, of course, worrying. This presents us with communicative problems, and that is why we must also send out the real risk effects of this electronic tobacco to young people. And half of the boys and half of the girls had tried the electric cigarette. The water pipe told me.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u337	Mr President! This government proposal is quite in line with the way in which we want to deal with smoking in general in this country. Everyone is aware of the adverse effects of tobacco on health, as we all know, and that is how these harmful taxes have been added to them, and now these electronic cigarettes come into this same line of tax treatment, so there is nothing dramatic about this. Hope that in the family, fathers and mothers teach their children how harmful smoking is, and then also in school health classes this same thing goes through because the only way to prevent smoking from becoming more widespread among young people and among children is to share genuine information. And then, of course, it is up to the government to provide sufficient resources for the teaching sector to play, and the other thing is that the taxation of tobacco products is at the level that it feels like. — That is all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u338	Mr President! As noted above, the purpose of this government’s proposal is also to bring e-cigarettes under the tobacco tax. And the aim of this government proposal is very good, as has already been well said. After all, e-cigarette is the last attempt by the international tobacco industry to make many, especially recently, young people and children in the West addicted to nicotine and nicotine, and it is therefore very good that this tax reform is now being carried out in Finland, which will then bring similar tax costs to the use of e-cigarettes. I also very much welcome the developments that have taken place in Finland in recent years. As is the case with many of us in the school world, we have noticed that young people and children have lost interest in smoking and, therefore, it is good that efforts are being made to combat this trend, including in the case of electronic cigarettes, so that this good direction is not reversed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u339	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u340	Mr President! In many contexts, when I have heard entrepreneurs during this period, this government proposal or the subject contained in it has become only positive feedback. It is fundamental justice that taxes should only be paid for the money that has been received and not for the money that may be received later. It is incomprehensible how governments, before the rise of the Finns, have come up with such unfair legislation in which entrepreneurs and employers have been made to pay taxes on income that does not yet exist. This conversion of value added tax into a payment-based payment would certainly merit a State Justice Prize if it were to be awarded. The correction of this obvious injustice and injustice is a symbol of this whole government's action and will mode of action. Fix Finland in small steps but with determination to become a modern and respectful country of employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u341	Mr President! The main goal of the government is to make employment and work easier and more profitable, and this is achieved by both fiscal and legislative means. This government proposal to amend the VAT law is a small improvement for the state itself but for many entrepreneurs a significant improvement compared to the previous one. Entrepreneurs have had to account for VAT on a accrual basis, even if the money has not yet been transferred from the customer to the company, and it has caused problems for many companies, especially as payment periods have increased in recent years. The long-term wish of business associations has been to move towards a payment-based VAT account in the smallest companies, and now this wish is being realised by the decisions of the current government. Small businesses will no longer have excessive consequences for late payment of the invoice, and the decision will therefore reduce the need for working capital for the smallest companies, which may in some cases prevent the company from going bankrupt or going out of business. This reform affects as much as 90% of our VAT companies. Mr President! This government proposal is very welcome, but perhaps it could be improved a little further in the future. For the purposes of this proposal, the turnover limit has been set at EUR 500000 during the financial year. It could be even a little higher, as is already the case in some other European countries. The Accounting Act defines the threshold for a micro-enterprise as a turnover of EUR 700000 and it would be logical that at least this same turnover limit would also be used to determine the VAT accounting criteria. At the same time, this would clarify legislation relating to micro-enterprises.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u342	Mr President! Now the government has the right grip on Finnish entrepreneurship. It is encouraged, its thresholds and obstacles are dismantled in many ways, and it is therefore expected that the growth that has now started after a long period of difficulty will get more and more momentum towards the end of this regime and, therefore, the goal of reaching the 72% employment rate and achieving the 110,000 new jobs will become more and more realistic. In this respect, the Competitiveness Pact was very important, and so is the entrepreneurial reduction that is coming, even though it is being mocked by the name of a profession, so it must be seen that it is part of the government's overall policy and is aimed at improving employment, increasing the competitiveness and profitability of businesses and is therefore a very important reform. This VAT-based contribution is part of this promotion and encouragement of entrepreneurship and making it more flexible. Payment-basedness is very important for many companies. Some have used it by arranging their billing so far, but now it becomes quite legal, and this also means that it is possible for a company to survive even in difficult times when it does not have to pay VAT, so to speak, prematurely, but when it has the money in use. It is easy to pay taxes on income. When there is no income, paying the tax is much more difficult. This is clearly the reason why businesses are in difficulty with this VAT model, which we now have.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u343	Mr President! Today, in practice, VAT must be paid during the financial year by the 12th day of the second month following the month of invoicing. After all, the proposal is based on the fact that an entrepreneur will only be able to account for the tax once the company itself has received a payment from its client. This is a small proposal, but in view of the fact that less than 500,000 turnover companies in our country account for 90 %, it is above all these small companies that are said to be micro-enterprises, so I think this is a very good and worthy proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u344	Mr President! This government proposal is very good and worthy of support. It is important that these small companies, which actually have a turnover of less than EUR 500000 in the financial year, receive this kind of up-to-date VAT system, a payment-based system, where the VAT duties and past VAT are to be accounted for only after the transactions have taken place, i.e. there will be no advance. For many small entrepreneurs, this kind of rational updating of VAT brings very great benefits and, above all, there is also a signal from the government towards small and medium-sized entrepreneurs that they can really get a little predictability in their own operations and a little financial sustainability for that activity. After all, the idea of the government has always been, and the cold fact is that large companies today prefer to reduce the workforce and new jobs, if they are to be created, are born into small companies. That is precisely what the government's proposal supports.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u345	Mr President! Indeed, I must say thank you to the government for this proposal. There will be a lot of presentations that will be negative feedback, but this has just become positive feedback. This is a very important reform for many small businesses, and especially for those whose business is in the form of late payments. I myself discussed this with an entrepreneur who has a company specialising in towing cars and crash cars, and in their case payments may be delayed for a very long time because of the insurance company, and this will, of course, have negative effects on the company's ability to pay. That is why this proposal is really, really good and brings many new opportunities to these companies. Of course, this turnover limit of EUR 500000 may set some kind of ceiling. It may also lead to splitting up parts of the business into smaller shell companies, but certainly these challenges can then be assessed later.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u346	Mr President! It is easy to disagree with the government's budget proposal on a number of points, but this is something on which I agree very much. In my opinion, this small but important step gives a good signal that entrepreneurship is to be supported and, on the other hand, remembers that even small businesses, in particular, can have a great deal easier opportunities for everyday flexibility. As Mr Honkonen mentioned, this proposal is also not complete. Of course, this limit of EUR half a million can be circumvented and tricked around, but it is, in my view, secondary to the fact that this proposal does make life easier for many entrepreneurs. Mr President! More and more often, the everyday life of an entrepreneur is atypical when we already know that many employment relationships are of an atypical and very variable nature. That is why it is important to build such flexibility. I hope that the reforms will not remain this way, but in future we will also pay attention to facilitating the recruitment of the first employees significantly, because there is work in Finland, but there is often a shortage of jobs. On the other hand, entrepreneurship reduction should also be further developed. One might wonder whether it is possible to direct, for example, to smaller companies or to promote direct employment or something else. I hope that the debate on entrepreneurship will continue to be active in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u347	Mr President! Related to this VAT obligation, the theme of entrepreneurship and its further development: Today, too, it has been suggested in this Chamber that the threshold for VAT duty should be increased to, for example, EUR 30000. This topic once became an older man to discuss with me at the market event and said that such a little less well-known thing is that the EU would have banned such a measure from Finland that Finland could change this threshold itself. I checked whether it was, and it seems a little like it is. The following answer to the written question, KKKV 366/2016 vp, is a direct quotation: "The scope of the tax base applicable to value added tax is regulated in a binding manner by the Council Directive on the common system of value added tax (2006/112/EC)
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u348	Mr President! As has been said here today in a number of speeches, many of today's proposals have been criticised, but I am also very much in favour of this proposal. I have been the wife of an entrepreneur for 30 years, and this has also been in our family many times at the table during discussions. The problem has been precisely that VAT payments have been made, even though the actual account has not yet come from this company, i.e. there is no practical liquidity or conditions for payment of these VAT, and this now allows companies to operate flexibly and ensures that this payment guarantee for these VAT payments has been secured through this way. I very much support this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u349	Mr President! I shall take the floor because I have the honour of thanking the representative for the Scream. It is quite right that the government's proposal should be given full support when it really is good. For me, at least this, when I myself have had to deal with a lot of VAT, is in a way a question of justice. I always wondered why I have to give the tax authorities money that I have not received and perhaps never will. When we go to the basis of payment, the correct nature of the tax collection is realized, so that in that sense it is incomprehensible that for so long it was allowed to be, as it were, in an illegal state, this which the government is now correcting. Indeed, we must agree that sometimes, when we look at this law a little bit again, this 500,000 will probably be small enough for me to understand why even after that the company should pay taxes on the kind of money it has not received. Indeed, all taxation must be based on the fact that the money has been obtained.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u350	Mr President! The government will have to make painful cuts, but it will also make decisions that will be nothing but good feedback, and this is one of them. The payment-based VAT reduction is targeted at small enterprises. It is really necessary in this period of time when citizens are encouraged to become entrepreneurs and thus to find employment and employment. It is also good to hear that the opposition is to be commended for this government proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u351	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u352	Mr President! The government proposal proposes to amend, among other things, the Income Tax Act and the Tax Procedure Act. I welcome the proposal and support it. One of the priorities of the Government Programme is the bioeconomy. Its one of the top projects, The aim is to diversify and increase the use of wood by 15 million cubic metres per year and increase the value of wood processing and increase the size of forest farms with the aim of entrepreneurship-like forestry and good forest management. In order to achieve this goal, too, this government proposal is necessary. Perhaps the most important single factor influencing the overall supply of wood is the price level of wood, which is determined by the demand and supply situation in the wood market. As a result of the price levels of wood, it cannot always be avoided that prices are not agreed in advance on the wood market. However, the most important factors affecting the supply in person are the possibility of felling, the age of the forest owner and the income level of the owner. The income from the sale of wood is capital income. The taxable person, i.e. the forest owner, informs the tax authorities of his taxable income, deductions and other information affecting taxation. In this way, the tax authority also receives information from income payers, timber companies, insurance companies and Metsäkeskus. On the other hand, the forest owner must report the reductions to forestry itself. In the tax year 2015, the tax rate on private forest owners' capital income was 30 per cent and 33 per cent of the capital income of more than 30000 euros were paid. For the tax year 2016, a tax of 30 % will be paid up to EUR 30000 and the tax rate on capital income that exceeds it will be 34 %. In my opinion, these are quite high tax rates and do not necessarily inspire the forest owner to buy wood. Wood sales income and forestry expenditure tend to be directed at different years. The provision allows the transfer of capital income to taxation in the following years. The provision for expenditure may not exceed 15 % of taxable capital income, less any reduction in the forest and acquisition value. I consider this 15% to be slightly too low, even though the forest reserve is usually carried out at cost in order to achieve a zero result. The result must be made within 4 years. Mr President! In recent years, there have been no significant problems with the availability of wood. The demand situation will improve with certainty, inter alia, as a result of ongoing and expected productive investments in forest industry enterprises. It is estimated that demand for wood will increase by several million cubic metres in the coming years. That is also why this government proposal is very good and timely.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u353	Mr President! The Government's proposal for a reduction in forest gift tax, which is now in the referral debate, is good and worthy of support. Finland continues to stand firm on wooden feet. The forest industry has been mistakenly regarded as a sunset sector, but the huge investment in the forest industry is now telling us something quite different. Wood is the foundation of everything. Industry must have regular access to wood. Securing the supply of wood is the lifeblood of our industry. The ownership of forest farms is currently often in the hands of the elderly. Often, they no longer have an acute need for money or a special enthusiasm for forest management in the evening of their lives, so often there are no motos sent to the forests, at least because of lack of money, and they often want to miss out. When forests are not managed, the growth of wood will slow down and the wood will not become first-quality logs and sawn timber anyway. Young people have better opportunities than older people to manage forests as their own work, for example. The engine and bullsaw stays in the hands of a 20-year-old lumberjack in a way that's different from that of an eight-year-old. A young generation also needs money when setting up a family and building a home. Money can be obtained by caring for the forest and selling the forest. Wood is used as efficiently as possible, and this of course serves forest owners and the forest industry. Economically facilitating the conversion of farms will ensure that forest owners are selected who have a need and motivation for forest management and economic exploitation. Mr President! The size of forest farms will also increase and this will reduce the costs of harvesting wood and will therefore be more economical for industry as well. In this way, forests will also produce well-being for us Finns in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u354	Mr President! The Government's proposal aims to promote the generation of forest farms, increase the size of forest farms, promote entrepreneurial forestry and increase the supply of wood. All these are good objectives on which I would like the whole Parliament to stand. The forest is still our green gold, and any objective of increasing its sustainable exploitation is to be welcomed. Contrary to what is claimed by the opposition, this is not a gift to give to the rich, but to make it easier to use our country's resources as a goal for industrial growth. The forest is owned by just ordinary people, and to an increasing extent also by people living in cities. We must make this property produce and develop. Generation changes are today's reality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u355	Mr President! This bill, which the government has brought to Parliament for approval, is very good and worthy of support. This generation change law on forest farms has been awaited for a long time, for many parliaments, and now this is it. Of course, this is a very good and worthy proposal, although there are certain shortcomings. But it is seldom, if ever, that a prime result is generated by the first attempt, one can say. It is a good thing that, in the case of forest farms, the aim is, of course, firstly not to create in this country the many-speaking estates where, in practice, forestry stops for one generation, even for several generations at its worst, and that this forest property is transferred to the younger generation. It is likely that the forest will be managed, that much more timber will become a raw material for the forest industry and that the bioeconomy will also be used as a raw material and then that the size of the forest will be increased. A healthy principle could be a little jealous of the Swedes. The Western neighbour has done these things better, and this is also a little better there. The size of the farm, the size of the forest farms, is larger there, and this has led to more rational forestry. It's not in anyone's best interest to have a fragmented forest farm. This complex generational allowance for forest farms is available on the basis of a complex calculation, and in practice, for example, at the height of my region of North Karelia, this relief will only take effect on some of those 50 to 60 hectares of forest farms. When the average size of a forest holding is about 33 hectares in northern Karelia, a great many farms are unfortunately not covered by this relief. But you can say that there is an attempt in the right direction. Personally, I would have preferred this generational allowance for forest farms to have been taken care of, for example, through a reduction in the forest, in which case it would have applied to everyone regardless of the size of the holding.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u356	Mr President! It is indeed a good thing that this long-term objective of a reduction in the generation of forest farms is finally being made, and that is why we should thank the government for bringing this government proposal to Parliament. Indeed, the aim here is to increase the dynamics of forestry, i.e. to increase these generational changes, to speed them up and also to increase farm sizes and then, through this dynamic, to increase the trade in wood. There are many advantages here, just as has been demonstrated above, and Mr Hoskonen has pointed out very well that this will certainly affect these passive forest owners and their heirs, and hopefully they will no longer be created to such an extent and will also be dismantled, and then forestry will become more entrepreneurial. It is a clear fact that often younger people, young families, have the need for money quite different from later years. For this reason, when these generational changes are born and the forest owners are younger, the trade in wood and the enthusiasm to carry out these earlier stages of forest management will certainly improve. Indeed, this is what is needed now to achieve these objectives in terms of the volume of timber trade and to mobilise wood, just as clearly the objective of the Government Programme is. According to Luke's calculations, the Finnish Natural Resources Agency's calculations, the first five years of the government's proposal, the State will receive an estimated higher tax revenue than without this deduction. Therefore, this will certainly have positive effects in many respects.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u357	Mr President! I understand the reasoning behind this proposal from the point of view of generational change. From the point of view of trade in timber, I find the argument somewhat amusing in that the trade in timber is not in any difficulties at the moment, but, on the contrary, we are currently in the midst of the busiest year of trade in wood in the millennium that has begun. Of course, it is good that you are considering these issues, but if, just a week ago, both the MTK and the forest industry were to praise the competition for how the timber trade is doing so well, then the speeches made in this Chamber in the budget referral debate about the need for such a reduction in order to promote timber trade now seem to me to be a little less justified. I do not think that this proposal is in any way harmful, but I would see that now that the government has called for severe financial discipline in this Chamber, there would probably have been some other use for these millions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u358	Mr. Speaker! There are excessive expectations about this proposal, and when this proposal comes here, different images have emerged. The proposal concerns those who receive the forest as a gift and is intended to promote generational change. It should also be borne in mind that, in a very selective way, this gift creates the possibility that this deduction can be used. All this presupposes the first sale of the trees which generate a certain amount of income, which can then be reduced. Of course, if this happens, it will be precisely that society will receive tax revenue, it will have dynamic meanings. I just want to reassure you that the whole world will not change once and for all, that a step in the right direction is taken here. I personally agree that, hopefully, this system can be developed in the future in such a way as to open up the possibility to those who are now excluded in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u359	Mr President! Just as Mr Kalli, chairman of the Committee on Finance, said, this is a very good step in the right direction. The fact that there are still problems to be solved is a perfectly normal situation in politics. You don't get all the good things for the same show. However, this is a very good opening and, as I said, it is good to continue. The most important thing is to note that this fragmentation of forest farms is gradually being brought into some rational control. It is of no benefit to anyone in this country that the area of a forest holding is 6 hectares or 5 hectares. It is very likely that a small forest farm will then be unable to beat up those economically sensible stamps, and it will lead to a situation in society where: Unfortunately, Finland is at the moment. Representative Olli-Son Parviainen spoke well. Yes, indeed, timber trade is reasonably good at the moment, and this year is probably a record year for a long, long time. But there is a terrible thing about all this beautiful and good that, at the moment, about one million mots a month are coming across Finland’s borders, mainly from Russia — 95% of the wood is coming across the Russian border to Finland. And according to customs statistics, wood paid to Russia is much more expensive than wood paid to a Finnish forest owner. Why is this so? It should be asked, or rather, by the great leaders of the forest industry, why should a neighbour be paid more than a domestic forest owner. Because there is a terrible thing about this phenomenon: if we don't chop our own forests and make thinnings in Finnish forests on time, we'll have a million acres of first thinning forests that urgently need an axe today. If we fail to thinn these, it means that after decades we will have sawn and sold to the world as plank and other items. So we have problems, but I would like the forest industry to start looking at Finland with blue and white glasses, this beloved country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u360	Mr President! Indeed, as Mr Hoskonen has already said, the aim of this government's proposal is to increase precisely these generational changes and then to increase the size of forest farms, which may vary from one part of the country to another. And then, by the effect of this model, there might be more of that timber trade. The reason why this increase in timber trade through this model — hopefully if this happens — is good is that when we get to these passive forest farms and get that timber trade started there it will improve our national property, forest, long-term returns and create the dynamics that I called for in forestry. And it must also be said that, in this model, the condition for its deduction is that the gift is given, and in this case the gift tax is immediately paid. And that, just as Mr Kalli, chairman of the Committee on Finance, said earlier, then, if the trade in wood is to take place after that, it can be reduced, but we must remember that the gift tax goes immediately to the State and that it has direct revenue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u361	Mr. Speaker! A great deal of expectations and prospects are being created for forestry, for the whole forest cluster, in terms of the promotion and progress of the bioeconomy. At the same time, we have had decades of progress in which the average age of forest owners has risen and continues to rise. At the same time, the average size of forest farms is also decreasing. In other words, neither of these things, the truth that is currently in place, supports the fact that the wood that is cut more and more sustainably in the forest, which is growing in Finland than it is being beaten every year, we are getting to the needs of industry, which is now investing very much in the sector. That is why it is very good that now, after many years of waiting, the government will come up with a proposal to facilitate the generational exchange of forest farms and in a way that encourages the sale of wood, that is, its relief only after the timber trade has taken place. And the fact that there are limits to this also knows that for these reliefs to be covered there must be certain areas. And these two things will certainly help to lower the average age and lower the average size of the forest. This is a very good thing. And, as has been said here, this is the first step towards the generation of forest farms and the fact that we are more actively able to engage in forestry and thus grow our bioeconomy, which is already excellent. This is a very big opportunity for Finland. A very good presentation from the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u362	Mr President! The forest sector has become a real piece of gold for Finland, although at some point it was thought that it was a declining sector. In the beginning of the year, 23 per cent of goods exports were products from the forest industry and the forest sector, so quite an increase in exports has been obtained from this wood sector. At the moment, there are a couple of billions more investments going on, we are coming to Lappeenranta, Kotka, Kouvola, Lohja, Varkaus and Äänekoski, and that is why we need to mobilise 15 million cubic metres of wood. And this government proposal is good in such a way that it is, of course, aimed at getting the wood moving, but also at the larger size of the forest farms. And yes, it must be said without guilt to any forest owner, without guilt to the owners of smaller forests, that it is true that the larger these facilities are, of course, all the moving of machinery and other things will become more efficient, and that is the direction we must pursue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u363	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u364	Mr President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the Military Injury Act so that the costs of open services for social and health care provided by the municipality or joint municipal authority would be reimbursed to persons injured or ill as a result of the winter, post-war and Lapland wars, whose disability rate under the Military Injury Act is at least 10% instead of the current 15%. I consider the proposal to be extremely important and to be supported. Unfortunately, this presentation is coming to many veterans of our wars too late. However, this is a fine hand-out for our veterans and an indication that the Government will also consider Finland’s 100th anniversary by respecting veterans according to the performance. For my part, I would have liked compensation to have been granted to disabled persons who were injured and ill in military service and UN missions, even though their duties have been different from those of those who served in war. I hope they're up next.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u365	Mr President! In the wars of 1939 to 1945, the government has taken good account of the injured in next year's budget, as this Government's proposal shows. The disadvantage rate of the war-qualified will be reduced from 15% to 10%. The proposed amendment of the law extends the circle of compensation recipients and contributes to the survival of older war-qualified people in their own home through home services, housing services, mobility support services, informal care support and outpatient care. Next year, when Finland turns 100, it is morally and socially important that all veterans of our wars receive all the necessary help to survive at home. The Government's proposal aims to ensure that groups entitled to military and veteran benefits receive benefits and services as long as the need for care and care continues. With this amendment of the law, the war ombudsmen living in Sweden will also be placed on an equal footing with the war ombudsmen living in Finland. Mr President! However, I cannot help but say the following. More improvements should have been made in the interests of the war-qualified and veterans already under previous governments. It would have had the support of the people, and the economy of our country would certainly have endured it. Now there are only about 22,000 veterans left. As veterans decline, they should all have access to a nursing home without long waiting lists, without filling in applications. There have been many veterans between the ages of 95 and 100 who have not had close relatives to help me move to a nursing home. Fortunately, the caring side has been the caring neighbours who have brought this matter to the fore and announced it. Finally, the role of spouses and war orphans should also be taken into account and, just as Mr Kulmala said, in the future the UN soldiers and those who are wounded in their work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u366	Mr President! The draft law proposes to amend the Military Injury Act so that the costs of open services are reimbursed to those who are injured or ill as a result of the wars of 1939 to 1945 and whose disability rate is at least 10% instead of the current 15%. That is what has been said in several speeches. They are estimated to be customers in municipal open services in Finland about 440 and in Sweden around 20. It is good that efforts have also been made in recent years to improve the possibility for Finnish war-qualified people living in Sweden to provide free services on the basis of Finnish legislation, so that Finnish war-qualified people living in both countries are as equal as possible — in the same foxhole, as was said. The change in the law from next year would entail additional costs estimated at EUR 4.7 million and in 2018 approximately EUR 3.7 million. Support for people living in Sweden costs approximately EUR 100000. In other words, it is a small amount of government expenditure or debt which is certainly of greater value to the beneficiaries. Mr President! On the other hand, I believe that it is possible to ask whether all the veterans of our wars who live among us are in such a condition that they all have at least this 10% disability rate, even higher in my opinion. I hope that each of us in his own municipality and constituency will ensure that, in the coming years, these funds and the budget allocated to the open services of front veterans will be allocated as effectively as possible through municipal measures to support veterans in accordance with their needs. Mr President! I warmly support the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u367	Mr President! Now are the years when we will have to pay our debt of honour to those who defended Finland in the wars at the latest. This appropriation for military injury compensation has decreased in recent years, but the Committee on Finance also called in its report at the end of last year for a reduction in the disadvantage rate for municipal open services with mild disabilities by 2017 at the latest, when we celebrate the 100th anniversary of Finland's independence. So now this is happening. Mr President! As a member of the Committee on Finance, I warmly welcome this government proposal. The mildly impaired war candidates have been an intermissioning group in relation to the services to be taken home. However, there is a great need for home-based services and they are beneficial compared to institutional care, including well-inhabited housing. The estimated cost of this legislative amendment is only around EUR 5 million per year. It is a very small price to pay for the fact that today we are allowed to legislate in Finnish here in our national Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u368	Mr President! It is easy to agree with these previous speeches which have been made here about the situation of these war ombudsmen. It is now positive that this disadvantage rate will be reduced to 10% and that it will be possible for the war-qualified to have access to services in the municipalities. It is now absolutely essential that the municipalities carry out an assessment of the need for services and recruit sufficient staff, that these people receive the necessary services. I have to say from South Karelia that we have had a centralised service in the Eksote region for several years, which has brought together all the war-qualified and thus veterans, that their situation is always monitored, investigated and assessments of the need for services are always carried out where necessary, so as to ensure all the services they need. In this respect, the situation is better for them. But we need to remember that most of these war ovals still live at home, and that is why it is important that these services are now being taken home, even as this legislation improves, to be secured throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u369	Mr President! This is a very good proposal and I am happy to thank the government for this proposal. By extending open services, it can be extended to stay at home while reducing the need for institutional care. This is good for both the individual and the society. Of course, when being at home is no longer safe and the person does not want to be at home, the community home must be reached as quickly as possible. But many of the MPs want to stay home as long as possible if they can get enough help.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u370	Mr President! According to the Government Programme, the services of veterans are being renewed to meet their service needs, and now, if ever, is the time to do so. Veterans' organisations have been involved each year and have also hoped that this disadvantage rate will be reduced from 15% to 10%. These municipal open-air services include catering, cleaning and other household care services. The same applies to these 18 people in Sweden. Knowing that this average age is 92 years, it can be said that this year, too, the last evening cry will sound to many veterans and in 2025, these veterans would be around 1200 people in general, so that now we must do everything we can — especially when Finland is 100 years old, independent. Each of us knows that without their efforts we should not live in free Finland today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u371	Mr President! It is an excellent government proposal to change the law on military injury so that the level of disadvantage is reduced from 15% to 10% so that almost all disabled persons, those with war disabilities can be secured from home care for as long as possible and rehabilitation at the same time. Soldiers who were disabled in our wars, when they were injured, have carried this injury throughout life, and everyone can imagine when age increases, how their injuries become more effective all the time. As Finland is now preparing to celebrate 100 years of independence, putting such things in order is of paramount importance to us and, as we know, this state budget also has sufficient rehabilitation money for all those veterans of our wars to get to proper rehabilitation. At the same time, you can also send greetings to the decision-makers of the municipalities, as well as to the trustees and preparatory officials, that every veteran living in the municipality, a veteran of our wars, is contacted and well cared for and, above all, that the money granted by the state is now spent on rehabilitation, so that the last years of life for veterans are very comfortable after hard work and that they are allowed to stay at home as long as possible and, above all, receive appropriate care.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u372	Mr President! This government proposal to change the law on war injuries is correct and good in view of next year's jubilee year. Of course, I must admit that the last few moments are on the way to this. There are indeed these 22,000 veterans among us, and we must ensure that none of them are excluded from these services and potential privileges. In the past, at least at municipal level, there were problems that depended very much on the activity of a veteran himself or his family, whether a veteran or an invalid received these services. Then, on a voluntary basis, responsibility was passed on to the elderly councils, for example, and now we need to consider how to concentrate our attention on this issue on the very work of the authorities, either at municipal or regional level. You would think that these 22,000 people could be treated with such dignity and that we must take care of them, all of them being individuals, that individual care, whether it is at home or otherwise feasible, must be carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u373	Mr. Speaker! Over the years, a number of initiatives and statements have been taken on this issue. This was also the case last autumn: we in the Committee on Finance, in the Section for Local Government and Health, in which I chair, wrote a statement in the report which required that this law on military injury and, in other respects, the affairs of veterans should be dealt with in such a way that they should never be dealt with again in Parliament and in committee. Now, on behalf of the committee, I should also like to thank the government for having acted in accordance with this statement, and this proposal is now before us. Next year will be the 100th anniversary of Finland’s independence. It can well be invoked and, on the other hand, more than 70 years have passed since the end of the war, which means that we will be at the last moment when this issue can even be dealt with. This debate has brought up this different situation in the municipalities, and it also rose last autumn when we dealt with this issue in the section. It turns out that in different municipalities the utilisation of these appropriations varies enormously. Some municipalities in Ostrobothnia use everything and well, but in some other parts of Finland a considerable number of veterans will not be used. This is where I drew the attention of the experts, and they agreed, the representatives of the Ministry, when the ministry was consulted on this issue for next year. I very much hope that these municipal differences will be put right and that the treatment of veterans everywhere will be appropriate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u374	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Education and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u375	Mr President! This proposal proposes to amend the lottery law so that in future only one gambling company would have the exclusive right to sell gambling in Finland. The new gambling company would be called Veikkaus Oy and would be a wholly state-owned specialised company. As a result of the change of law, the Slot Machine Association’s cash and casino activities, Fintoton’s horse games and the current bet’s gambling activities would move under the same roof. Finland has always had an exclusive system for the sale of gambling. This is because gambling also causes disadvantages and Finland has considered that the exclusivity regulated and controlled by law is the best way to prevent such harm. We have had a system of exclusive rights for three parallel operators, in which the Slot Machine Association, Veikkaus and Fintoto have only been allowed to execute gambling within their own field of activity. The fact that we have had three independent actors has been our own national solution. This solution has been due to the different nature of the games and, on the other hand, to the appropriate distribution of the profits of the different games between different beneficiary parties. In the past, our three operators' exclusive system has been built in such a way that there is no competition between gaming companies. Now this three-player model is proving to be out of date. This is an issue on which there is broad consensus. In the three operators' model, the game products they offer must be distinguished from each other, as there cannot be competition between the exclusive rights system. However, gambling technology and consumption patterns have changed. Games are being offered and played more and more in digital channels. This development also leads to a similarity of gaming products. The provisions of the current lottery law are poorly suited to the new type of gambling offering and demand brought about by developments. The exclusivity system also has the possibility to develop games, but a strict distribution of territory between three different players narrows this possibility. If the Finnish gambling offering does not keep up with this development, the channeling capacity of the domestic gambling offering will be jeopardised by our controlled and high consumer protection gambling offering. At the same time, the existence of our exclusive system and its objective in the fight against harm is jeopardised. With this proposal, we will maintain and strengthen our possibly exclusive gambling system in a changing gambling environment. The new gambling company would also have the opportunity to carry out a whole new type of gambling in a responsible manner, which has not been possible in the three-player model. This law imposes an obligation on the new company to take responsibility into account in its activities. This proposal also proposes that gambling policy be monitored. This task would be entrusted to the Gambling Advisory Board, which would be responsible for monitoring the achievement of the gambling policy objectives and the development needs. Mr President! The Finnish exclusivity system has always included directing the proceeds of gambling for general interest purposes. This would continue to be the case. However, it is important to note that the use of revenues to finance activities of general interest or of public interest is not an acceptable basis for maintaining an exclusive regime from the point of view of EU law. It may be a beneficial ancillary consequence of the system, but not its main purpose. The distribution of this favourable effect between different uses would be governed by the lottery law. 53% would be used to promote physical education, science, art and youth work, 43% to promote health and social well-being, and 4% to promote horse training and horse sports. Mr President! At this stage, there would be some changes to the grant procedures. In the future, the State Aid Act would apply to the distribution of grants for all three ministries of distribution. The Social and Health Care Centre, set up within the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, would be responsible for preparing health and social welfare grants instead of the grant department of the current Slot Machine Association. Beneficiaries would be involved in the preparation of assistance with the new relief advisory board. In the horse sector, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry would in future distribute the total return in the form of grants. The state funding and assistance procedures of the Ministry of Education and Culture would remain in place. Combining would also mean changes for community workers. The staff of the Slot Machine Association's assistance activities would be terminated and the staff would be transferred to the new assistance centre in connection with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has been responsible for the preparation of the establishment of the relief centre. Since January 2017, staff have already been offered a service relationship. Other staff employed by existing communities would be employed as old workers by a new gambling company. The laws contained in this proposal are due to enter into force from the beginning of 2017. In the same context, two exclusive gambling policy measures are to be implemented to strengthen the control of gambling and enable the assessment of the harmfulness of games. The supervision of gambling activities will be strengthened by reforming the organisation of the lottery administration associated with the Police Government and increasing its resources. An assessment team in connection with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will start its activities. The implementation of these measures does not require any amendments to the law, but they are linked to the objectives of this proposal. Finally, I would like to point out that the Commission has issued a communication to Finland on the draft law, reminding Finland of the conditions under which we can continue to maintain an exclusive regime in the European Union. The Finnish gambling policy must comply with the EU Court of Justice’s decision-making practice, the new Veikkaus Oy’s supervision must be rigorous, and the new types of games allowed by this legislative amendment must be consistent with the objectives of our gambling policy. With these conditions and with this change of law, we can secure the vitality of our exclusive system for the long future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u376	Mr President! I have followed this major reform in the role of a member of the Board of Directors of Veikkaus. There are many things involved, and the changes are very great in the activities of those companies and in many other matters. A few details that have stuck in my mind and which, at least at some point, were problematic and which I would like to clarify as to how they have developed further: In other words, there was such a debate that the definition of these new gaming products might still be too strict in the bill, that is, that the gaming companies would not be able to respond very dynamically to the needs of developing new games, but that they would have to be applied for longer and it would take time and lose competitive advantage over foreign gaming companies. So this kind of thing is some kind of so-called dump clause in this law involved that other types of gaming products can be placed on the market without a separate authorisation or at least too heavy for that kind of thing? Secondly, has this law taken into account the fact that the legislator's will has been carefully ascertained in the way in which the conditions of these games are controlled, i.e. that there would not be too much room for arbitrary interpretation by the authorities, for example, as regards the marketing of those games, while the unfortunate episodes now existed in relation to the bet, that the police government said that you were not allowed to market like that, and that it was not really based on anything other than their own opinion and interpretation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u377	Mr President! Fortunately, the long-standing matter of combining three gambling companies is now at this stage. To begin with, we have to say the starting point, which at some point seemed to have been forgotten, where and who is being joined together. In due course, the RAY has been established by the social and health services, the associations, the unions, and is thus still operating on an organisational basis until the beginning of the new law. The second is Veikkaus, founded by the Workers' Sports Federation, the Ball Association and the Sport Association of Finland, i.e. the Finnish Sports Federation. Unfortunately, I do not know the background of Hippos, but I understand that there has been more of an association-based activity. That is what I want to say at this beginning because somehow, at this stage in the drafting of the law, there was a feeling that this was to be taken over more by the ministries, that this was to be done by the authorities and that this was to be part of the state budget. This is a good EUR 1 billion at the moment, which is a large amount of money, and since this whole evening has been discussed here about these tens of millions of dollars, I can well understand that some officials have felt somehow that we are now getting one piece of this. But I would like to point out that there is still a need to ensure that the NGOs that will benefit from this are those who will benefit from it in the future, and all the money will also be channelled into these NGOs which have started this system in the future. This joint Veikkaus Oy, as it has now been decided to change its name, which, in my opinion, is quite good, is of course the reason why this system of exclusive rights can be secured, better managed for gambling, better addressed for harmful gambling, addictive gambling and so on. But, of course, the aim here is also to obtain more returns and to get out of the narrow circles that have now existed between the various organisers, which means that there is no longer any need to negotiate whether or not a game belongs to someone's licence, but now that we have one company, there is no need for such a discussion. I therefore hope that there will be a good understanding of these blackmails with the Police Government so that from now on, games, especially games of virtual form, will be able to become more accessible. Many of us are familiar with the Income Sharing Act, which has been in use for decades for the distribution of the proceeds of Veikkaus, and I think it is a very good safeguard here too, because social and health organisations were particularly concerned about whether culture or sport can now take up a greater part. In my view, this revenue-sharing law, which has as a percentage of the common output determined how many per cent goes for different uses, ensures that this debate does not need to take place. I also hope that there will not be such a situation as it was a few years ago that there was an attempt to impose other costs on the profits of gambling. They've been on the RAY side several times. Also, there have sometimes been library costs paid for the returns of Veikkaus, and sometimes attempts have been made to bring in museum rentals and other things that do not actually belong there. Let us hope now that they are actually kept at the disposal of these non-governmental organisations. What I am sorry about is that we are talking about three companies, not four. Finland also has a part of Finland in Åland, where there is a company called Paf, which is also very aggressively marketing on the Finnish continent, and I do not think there is any reason why Pafi should be treated differently. I know that there are infringement actions or others going on there, but nevertheless I think it would have been valuable to take this line in this context. This criticism during this three-week consultation came from organisations, particularly when they felt that the Memorandum of Understanding, which was jointly drawn up by the governments of the three companies, i.e. all actors, was no longer a reality in the actual legal framework. Of course, particular criticism came to the point where one wonders whether this distribution of money will be given by a negotiating board or a relief committee or any other opinion, or whether it will even be able to make a statement or what kind of criteria it will be. This point still remained somewhat beyond criticism, so that the will of the organisations at this point did not materialise as they would have liked to take it forward. Here the Commission's feedback, which came on 1.9., which is why this package of laws was brought here now, is very positive, because all Finnish gambling systems have always been challenged to that side of the European Union for private gambling companies, but now this guidance for legitimate and controlled games will be the one line in Finland. This, too, is the way in which this company, which is already under the Finnish legislation, has already been set up on a temporary basis, so that better-identifiable gambling will be what is to be taken forward and, at the same time, we will study how much more of these gambling disadvantages, which need to be put into prevention, will actually come through the Finnish gaming systems and how much of those gambling disadvantages actually come from games that are played abroad, i.e. we actually get facts about what the actual situation is there. I hope that Parliament, and in particular the Committee on Administrative Affairs, will have these regulations before they are ready from this Parliament, because there are quite important things written on that side of the regulation. Then there is this second stage, which I hope will move forward very quickly, because this lottery law now, the first stage, is only the beginning and the second stage will then be more precise in terms of product and marketing, and will then achieve even more in terms of content. I therefore hope that this debate and this preparation will start as soon as possible. But thank you. I'm sure this will go on busy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u378	Mr President! It is indeed a good thing that this major and significant reform is already at this stage. After all, the work itself is not easy. As Mr Paatero said in his previous speech, three very different companies will be brought together and formed as a state-owned company, and then will be combined with these important social obligations, which RAY, Veikkaus and Fintoto have now had to finance various NGOs and other good activities. It is good that the monopoly is now maintained and that these artificial interfaces are not created. When we live in this virtual world, our gambling monopoly must also keep up with this development. I believe that this reform, this merger, will also make it possible to secure the competitiveness of this company and perhaps also, to some extent, to prevent this flow of money from going abroad, after a foreign supply. I also very much welcome the fact that the position and financial position of a small player, Fintoton, who is of considerable importance to Finnish horse racing and the horse industry, is now secured here as a whole. It is very important for the Finnish countryside. Mr President! Now that the Minister is here, I would have asked what Mr Paatero referred to in the previous speech. Now that the government proposal states that the aim is to ensure that our gambling policy is compatible with the conditions laid down by EU law for an exclusive system, how does this Paf, the gambling company in Åland, now sits in this perspective of EU law?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u379	Mr President! This proposal is a very good one, and there is no comment on the draft law as such, for this is the way in which we safeguard the survival of our own national model. This unification has been worked on in good cooperation and the process itself has been a good one, even though there was some criticism from the organisations at the end. But that's what I'm asking. Why on earth did they end up calling this new company Veikkaus? I think of it in the future in such a way that if we want to build a new culture and a new community approach, when three players so different now join together, we could have thought a little more about this name from this point of view. So if someone had been given a completely new name, would it have been easier to leave this new company as if it were a clean slate?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u380	Mr President! With regard to the names of the previous speaker, should we have given a new name: I personally believe that Veikkaus as a brand represents in itself such a large amount of money that, if it had been rejected, it would have been, in my opinion, a sort of throwing money into a well. It has been so well established, a good image for Finns, and is played precisely because it is known that the money is directed to charity and universal good, where it is directed — sport, youth work, art and science. One point we should all remember is that, in the end, why are we here talking in a free society, is a Finnish horse. After all, if the race sports and the horse economy are doing well, they require and help keep the Finnish horse on the map and its family doesn't get too much smaller, so I think it is excellent that agreement has been reached on this 4% share, because these three players, if you look back on history, unfortunately have a somewhat competitive and perhaps controversial history behind them. Now that this Veikkaus begins, I hope that the advertising and all its activities will be on a high level and that the Finns will accept and use this blue and white company, as it were, as it were, because the pressure is really intense from abroad and via the Internet and online for gambling that does not benefit Finnish society. But if we want to keep horse and special farming up in Finland, it requires that we have enough prizes on the race tracks and that the racetrack network is comprehensive enough for Finland as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u381	Mr President! Now that we've had a conversation. With regard to the brand issue of a bet or a new gaming company, I fully agree with Mr Estilä on that point, I was already of the opinion that there was a high risk that if that name were changed, the colour, description, graphic expression would be changed radically, so the brand of Veikkaus might be lost and could become lost in game changes in such matters. This was a great fear, and luckily, the change now took place in such a moderate way. The debate on these gambling disadvantages and gambling abroad: it would of course be nice to hear whether there are any recent studies on this issue. I myself finished my online gambling thesis at the University of Applied Sciences, but it is already over ten years ago. Do you think these phenomena have recently been investigated how many Finns play abroad? It is a sure fact that a lot is played. There is nothing we can do about it when we are in the European Union. It is inevitable that gambling abroad is legal. Bets or a new gaming company must be able to compete on the free market with these gaming companies for gaming exchanges. It's a reality you just have to deal with.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u382	Mr President! After all, such a name would have been available now on the free market as, for example, a brilliant invention of Itella. Put it in your place. This was an excellent solution and was based on a very wide-ranging, exceptionally wide-ranging study, research, reflection on different positions that the administration has had easy to agree with regarding this name. This decision is the basic feature of Finnish society, the basic feature of civil society, probably the most crucial positive decision of this parliamentary term to safeguard the diversity of Finnish civil society far ahead. In this respect, this is crucial. If this had not been done, probably a significant part of the money flow that belongs to the gambling world would have moved abroad, most likely still to be protected and won by Paradise companies. For gambling disadvantages, this is a controlled system that is in use in Finland. When someone asked how much online gambling abroad is now, it is already very remarkable. This, of course, adds to the innovative game offering pattern between these companies that the Finnish gaming company option is competitive in relation to international online gambling options.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u383	If we take another representative from Elomaa and then answer the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u384	Mr President! We only have one gambling company in the future. Three merges: Veikkaus, Slot Machine Association and Fintoto. And of course we have to be able to compete with foreign gaming companies. This is a good performance, because now there is a chance. Games must be developed, that is a fact. I agree with Estilä, Kanerva and Mäkelä that Veikkaus as a name is the best possible. It is a brand and every Finn knows what it is about. This system of exclusive rights is good, because the amount of support for physical activity and culture, youth work, science and art could even be jeopardised without this legislative amendment, and therefore this amendment of the law is quite self-evident and easy to support. The role of non-governmental organisations and also these gambling disadvantages must of course be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u385	Home Secretary Risikko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u386	Madam President! Let's be brief. There were good questions here, and very briefly. The question was whether this would allow these new types of games to be introduced, and I believe that this law has been amended precisely from the point of view of getting this new kind of world, which is now on the table and at hand, to be controlled in such a way that harm can be prevented. And we have also looked at the disadvantages, and I am sure that in the parliamentary committee you will go through them, especially the Committee on Social Affairs and Health will certainly go through them and how they will then be tackled. After all, there is always a risk that when games are added and new types of games are added, the disadvantages will increase. But I think it is extremely good that this money for profit is also being used to prevent harm. For quite a long time I have been in positions where we have always dealt with the Slot Machine Association, I have worked in public health organisations my life, so important that we have such a system in Finland. With regard to the situation in Pafi, the Åland Islands, I am not in a position to respond here, but I am taking a message to our officials who have certainly explained this and have been able to tell them about it. All in all, I myself would say that we had to do this at the latest. As long as I have been a minister myself, so long has this been hooved that something needs to be done about it, and now we are getting this controlled. And that was now, one can say really, for the last days, that we can actually maintain such a monopoly here, that we can get this money, which we can now collect here, for this good cause of general interest. Think of where we could get such social well-being and health promotion — physical education, science, art, youth work — this kind of money that we would take it from — and then horse training, horse sports, which I know the President is, among other things, very interested, and then we have common interests here in everyone, including the President, I know that. I think it's great. Here Mrs Kanerva, who, as chairman of the Board of Directors, has been here in her midwives, made an excellent speech. It has been terribly important to me that I keep an eye on the fact that this money that is being collected here goes for the very purposes that this is supposed to be. And this has now confirmed it in many ways. And then I'm not going to bet where the bet came from, but I think it came from the fact that there's all that betting involved. But I'm sure we're still discussing the name. - Thank you. — Of course not, but let us discuss where it came from.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u387	The 15th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u388	Madam President! It is proposed to amend the Act on the Rescue College and the Act on the Police College of Applied Sciences. The purpose of the presentation is to transfer the responsibility for the training of emergency services officers from Savonia University of Applied Sciences to the Police College of Applied Sciences. This is an explicit transfer of responsibility for training, i.e. a change in the administrative powers and responsibilities associated with the provision of training. Emergency services officers training should continue to be carried out in Kuopio at the Emergency Services College, which has a competent faculty providing training and appropriate training equipment and areas. Civil protection officer training is a highly important field of education for internal security, where instruction is provided in Finland only within the framework of the Emergency College. The aim of the proposal is therefore to secure the prerequisites for emergency services officers' training and to promote the development of high-quality training in order to meet changing operating environments. The aim of the proposal is also to increase networking between internal security institutions. According to the presentation, the Emergency Education Centre would prepare, in cooperation with the Police University of Applied Sciences, the criteria for the selection of students and the curriculum and the Emergency Education Institute would organise courses in accordance with the curriculum in a manner agreed between the Emergency Education Centre and the Police College of Applied Sciences. It is therefore a question of combining the powers of the two key institutions in the field of internal security and of making use of their expertise. In the planning of education, it is important to take into account the working life orientation, which in practice requires close cooperation with employers such as rescue services. The proposal affects the state budget for 2017 as the budget for the Civil Protection Officer training is transferred permanently from the main section of the Ministry of Education and Culture to the section of the Ministry of the Interior. The amount to be transferred is approximately EUR 1.2 million. The funding of polytechnics has been severely cut in recent years, and this has unfortunately also been reflected in the training of rescue officers. Savonia University of Applied Sciences' annual reduction in the cost of emergency services officers training has been described in the Board's proposal: while last year Savonia's net funding for the training of officers amounted to approximately EUR 1.32 million, the corresponding contribution for 2017 would be less than EUR 700000. It is clear that savings of this magnitude would make it very difficult to carry out rescue officer training in its current form. The rest of the annual cost of emergency services training of approximately EUR 3 million has always been covered since the operation of the rescue services. The solution presented would allow the transfer of the appropriations back to the Ministry of the Interior's main category of civil protection officer training to be better targeted at the intended destination, which would also safeguard the financial conditions of the civil protection officer training. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This has certainly provoked discussion in the regions, and I tell you that when I came to this job this was quite the first thing on my desk, and I was very careful to find out, because I myself — the Vice-President of Seinäjoki University of Applied Sciences — have some knowledge of this subject. The background to this transfer is primarily to ensure financial conditions, and with this assurance we will be able to maintain quality education. The future would not have been ensured if we had not done this not only for economic reasons, but also because we have this knowledge of internal security and external security, which is required to guarantee security, that we can strengthen it in this way as well, and then we can achieve synergy between different professions of education, but above all we can also achieve a level of university of applied sciences. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u389	Madam President! The Government proposal proposes to transfer the responsibility for the training of emergency services officers from Savonia University of Applied Sciences to the Police College of Applied Sciences. I consider it important that the education in the field of rescue is in Kuopio as a whole at the Savonia University of Applied Sciences, where the entire education environment has been built for years to meet the requirements of the emergency training. The Rescue College already recognized the outlook for central government finances in 2010 and started a development project at that time involving all personnel. At that point, the Emergency Response Centre increased the financial awareness of the entire staff and began to discuss together how to influence the future by changing the way in which they operate and by further looking at the ways in which they work. The aim was to find measures which, however, do not jeopardise the quality of teaching from a critical knowledge point of view. Furthermore, it was essential that no measures should be taken that jeopardise the safety of students and/or personnel in a high-risk environment. The Emergency Response Centre continues to be concerned about adequate funding. On 14 August 2015, the Ministry of Finance published a draft budget for 2016. It was very worrying to read about the Emergency College. The action and results would remain the same, but the Htv figure would fall so that last year's 101 Ht is only 88 this year. The Centre for Crisis Management would not be affected by the cuts, but will be operated at the levels of the previous year. In the spring of 2015, the Emergency Response Centre was given clear economic frameworks to plan the activities in accordance with. These bodies and funding would no longer have been able to carry out statutory tasks. Based on the information I have received, the cuts in funding for spending limits and training for the fire marshals amount to EUR 511000 for this year and EUR 871000 for next year from 2015. At this point, I would like to emphasise that higher education in the field of emergency services is a very important field of education for internal security, where education in Finland is provided only at the Emergency College. As a particular threat and concern, the Rescue College has had compensation and repair investments in equipment and training areas that these funding patterns could not afford. So what will happen to regeneration and development? However, the training area is very important and important for education, and if it is allowed to deteriorate, then the development of business education cannot be discussed. If not corrected and replaced, the question may be asked which died first, the egg or the chicken. I think we'll both go. The cheese planer, retirements, increased farm efficiency and increased business activity are not enough to cover the financing deficits that come from both the SM and OKM. In practice, it is almost impossible to fill the funding gap without a procedure. The above amounts are of the order that layoffs and holiday payments cuts are patch treatment that can work in 2016, but next year we will be in the structure. The rescue academy itself does not decide on matters of this magnitude, but it belongs to the department’s property. Let us hope that the Ministry has an understanding of the security of everyday life. At least that's what I believe. According to this government's proposal, the budget for civil protection officer training would in future be part of the budget of the Ministry of the Interior and would thus be managed by the Ministry of the Interior. It is to be hoped that funding will no longer be reduced when it is also intended to decentralise education in this way. In the case of the Civil Protection College’s Master’s degree, from 2014 to 2015, 20 per cent of the teaching hours have been deducted. This has been partly accompanied by an increase in the student's self-study, and in part the reductions have meant internal changes in the curriculum. In the field of education, the number of staff has decreased by around 15 to 20 % and will be reduced, in particular as a result of the retirement of the years 2015 to 16. To date, the Emergency Response Centre has tried to make good use of the natural exit, meaning that only some of the vacant posts have been filled or filled. Madam President! I am very concerned about the current situation at the Rescue College. It is a question of safety and security for each of us. The changes proposed in the Government's proposal would shift the civil protection officer training administratively into the Ministry of the Interior's administrative sector, which would allow for the development, planning and improvement of the economy in the area of internal affairs as a whole. If this were successful, it would be in the interests of all of us, but the pessimist will not be disappointed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u390	Mr President! The responsibility for education in upper secondary education is therefore being transferred from Savonia University of Applied Sciences to the responsibility of the Police College, i.e. from Kuopio to Tampere, but I understand that the teaching continues in Kuopio at the Rescue College. This has become a lot of questions and comments, as the Minister has mentioned here. The Emergency Response Centre has facilities specifically designed and built for the needs of the rescue service, a versatile training area and other simulation environment, as well as highly qualified teaching staff. The Emergency Response Centre has the substance of the rescue services and also has strong working life connections that have enabled the content of the degrees to be developed and taken into account, and also has very high-quality research activities. It has therefore been very high-quality and good, The Emergency Response Centre has received a lot of positive feedback on its activities, and I therefore have to ask again what benefits this transfer has for students, staff and society. There is an economic justification behind this, but are there other advantages? I know that this bill has now been very much corrected in the last few metres. This was obviously a lot, let us say, worse in the past, and now the Minister has been able to correct this considerably. Nevertheless, I ask whether a proper cost-benefit analysis has been carried out.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u391	Mr President! These are the same ideas that I share with the users of the previous speeches to a great extent. Here are a few questions for the Minister, and I will be brief about them. There is repeated talk here that the responsibility for education is transferred to the Police College of Applied Sciences, but isn't there a similar transfer of the right to degree? It is also a matter of great importance, and it is of great importance both to the donor and also to the receiving party. It's true that at the Salvation Academy. There are now really suitable teaching facilities in Kuopio, with those training areas, equipment, equipment, expensive, very special, special infrastructure built there. Is it the case that, when moving to Tampere, there is no need for any change, or is it really the case that physical education is maintained there in Kuopio? I would like to refute the rumours that education in Kuopio will be maintained in the beginning, but then gradually, some of it may then be there in Tampere. I know that there is no such thing in the Minister's proposal, but I would like to be strengthened and commented on this further.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u392	Madam President! I must thank the Minister for putting this government proposal in its final form. As the Minister himself says here, the responsibility for the training of emergency services officers is transferred from Savonia University of Applied Sciences to the Police College of Applied Sciences. But what is currently the situation, i.e. amk-teaching is only given at the Rescue College in Kuopio, so continues. So this has been the concern of the representatives of the region that what is actually happening. And I would hope that this report will then be included in the committee, that even if the responsibility for education is transferred to the Police College of Applied Sciences and the Ministry of the Interior, this actual education will nevertheless take place in Kuopio at the Rescue College. I think that the Minister has found that what is the point of investing in high-quality training facilities and, once these facilities have been found to be good and sold abroad, they will be moved elsewhere. That is an economic waste.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u393	And Secretary Risikko for three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u394	Madam President! You asked, "What's the point?" You can only be sure that when I came to this job, when this kind of education came before me and when I happen to know this when I was starting Savonia and then I know the university of applied sciences in general, I also took it in a way that makes sense. I did not leave in the way that it was given and that now that this is so far along, this has to be taken, but I really did get involved in whether this made any sense. And I still think this makes sense. In fact, what benefit does this bring? We'll make sure of that economy. We all know that now that all the time polytechnics have had to reduce their resources, so that we make such a change... When I looked at what has happened over the years, when Savonia has had responsibility for education and this right to graduate, unfortunately that budget has been going down all the time. And I have also had a conversation with the headmaster of the Salvation Academy that may have been the cause. And it seems that when it has been there in Savonia, then Savonia, having had a weak economic situation or decreased, has also reduced this funding in this particular case. Right to a degree: It really is exactly what you say. In addition to the responsibility for education, the right to a degree will then be transferred to the Police College of Applied Sciences, but the implementation of the training will remain in Kuopio. It's got all the fasiliities. There's that skilled faculty. It's got all those areas. There are games and gadgets that have been equipped over the years. It is not possible to move them to Tampere on an ever-old day. There is no purpose if there is so much money invested, and it is not just about that, but there is also an area that is suddenly not able to move somewhere. That would be a waste of money if we moved it somewhere now. No, there's those fasiliities, there's that skill, and that's what we appreciate. Well, then, which is still a good thing: We are able to maintain university of applied sciences education and education, when we still have a university of applied sciences degree level, which corresponds to the degree level. And then we will be able to ensure this student's competence when we have the staff with professional experience there in Kuopio and they will continue to produce that training. I believe that this will enable us to ensure the level of education and, in particular, the level of work-oriented education. What I myself have required to change to that government proposal is that working life is the most important thing, namely that rescue services are involved and that working life in general is developing this training. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u395	Mr President! I would like to ask one question which came to mind in connection with the Minister's speech. Now that this right to a degree is given to another university of applied sciences than that which actually implements it, I ask that it does not just happen the same way that we have been in South Karelia. If I don't remember now, the training of forest machine drivers is done in South Karelia, but the right to a degree is in Tampere, and in practice when that funding is being built, it means that all the work is done in South Karelia and all the work is done in South Karelia and all the money, the so-called interim payment, about EUR 200,000, Tampere now receives for the right to a degree. There's no such thing as a cash machine or anything like this, just like there's now a Ruokolahti—South Karelia—Tampere axis? It has, of course, caused a great deal of trouble in South Karelia, because practically all the work is done there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u396	Minister Risiko, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u397	Madam President! Yes, when we get it under the same regime, that is, we get it under the Ministry of the Interior as a whole now, then we can avoid it. It has now been under a completely different regime, when we have had implementation under the Ministry of the Interior, but then the school that has given a degree has been under the Ministry of Education and Culture. Now we move all of these here — both the student who has the right to graduate and the one who produces it are under the same administration, i.e. under the Ministry of the Interior. I believe we can avoid this, too, because why would we move extra money there? I arranged for this to be negotiated in such a way that all parties were present. There were the people of the Ministry, the Rescue College and the Police College, and we sat and the officials sat even longer than I did, and we have a very joint report on what has been agreed that there will not be such a question that wait a minute what is going on here. And I trust that the cooperation will continue and ensure that the student has the best knowledge.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u398	A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Committee on Education and Social Affairs and Health must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u399	Madam President! I would like to continue to highlight these weakenings of the old-age service law promoted by the government and the significant cuts in the budget in this respect. In other words, there are plans to revise the staffing size of elderly services and to remove some of the tasks of the old-age services Act, with significant cuts in the services of the elderly. I would like to remind you of Parliament's common will status last season, which was that the dimension should be raised to 0.5 by the end of 2014, and now the government is driving this 0.4. This state of will has been well respected in such a way that, according to THL studies, this average has risen to 0.63. In other words, it is bad in the sense that this goodwill is now being undermined and the signal is given that the development of care for the elderly can be cut. I would also remind you that this discriminates between the care of the elderly and the elderly in Finland. As is known about the significant increase in customer fees, wealthy regions and wealthy municipalities largely refrained from raising these fees, while poorer regions were forced to raise them. I fear that the same will happen in the care of the elderly, that poorer regions will be forced to drop and lower this dimension. In many respects, these weakenings also affect the fundamental rights of the elderly and the ability of the nursing staff to cope. I do not consider these proposals and cuts to be acceptable, conscious of these existing challenges of care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u400	Mr President! I, too, cannot fail to return to this human resources measure for care of the elderly. Last Thursday we had a lot of discussion on this issue during Question Time, and Minister Rehula then argued for a reduction in the size of the staff by the fact that management needs determine the number of staff. Unfortunately, this is not going to happen in practice, because I have already been told by the nurses that the staff have already been informed that staff will be reduced from the beginning of next year, and it is precisely because there is now a government mandate to do so. So no one asks the needs of the customer or the elderly, but 0.4 is placed directly on the basis of the calculation of shift planning and number of employees. The minimum recommendation will therefore be the maximum size directly. This government proposal has been criticised by all the experts. I do not believe that there are any experts in Finland who believe that this can be done without the quality of care for the elderly being weakened. This is also criticised by professionals, relatives and elderly people themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u401	Madam President! Actually, I'm going to continue this conversation. We had this debate earlier this afternoon about this care for older people and the fact that now, with the government's proposal, the government is undermining the ability of older people or elderly people to receive all the services they need. This is, above all, about the legal security of people and the right of people to the services they need, as guaranteed by the Act on Elderly Services, which now also makes it difficult for municipalities to start saving in human resources, possibly to increase customer fees in order to balance their own finances, and also to make it difficult for these multiprofessional geriatric teams to operate, because now these future legislative proposals will have an impact on the fact that they will also be able to do so. The responsible person shall be removed. Above all, this will have an effect on the situation of those living alone who do not have close or family, when there is no one to care for them. This will increase insecurity for many elderly people. And what, of course, is still visible here: the government is planning to restrict the rights of people with disabilities over the age of 75 so that they are no longer covered by the Disability Services Act. Just as has been said here in previous speeches, so all the experts have shown and said that, firstly, these cuts are impossible, they are not sensible and they also do not respect our constitutional legal protection. This has given rise to a great deal of concern, not only in the elderly themselves, but also in their loved ones, because there may be situations that simply those close to them live in a different place from the elderly themselves, which is why they are not allowed to care for and care for their own loved ones. That is why this is strongly linked to this state contribution to basic service, and it is also referred to in this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u402	Madam President! The relationship between the municipality and the state is very complex, and now in this draft budget, many of these parts are moving. The competitiveness pact, the reform of the pension legislation, which will enter into force next year, and so on, will affect the relationship between the municipality and the state. Sometimes municipalities are winning, sometimes municipalities are losing in this respect. But what is essential is what is written here in the reports on the budget book and which the Government of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities unanimously said with great satisfaction last Thursday, among other things, that this budget as a whole for a long time, perhaps after eight years, will strengthen local government finances. Not much, 39 million, but it does. And when you look at these figures from this appendix file over the last few years, the state saved up during the last parliamentary term by cutting the central government shares really severely. It is no saving to cut from another public body to look more beautiful figures in the state budget. That is self-deception, frankly, and that is what happened. And now, in 2017, there will be no more cutting, the state as a whole will not cut off the combined effect of all these factors, not from the municipalities. The savings are elsewhere. The fact that this is happening is very important for the municipalities. It strengthens the autonomy of municipalities. It allows municipalities to hire people to care for the elderly, and so on, where local, local self-government allows them to use the funds in a reasonable, well-considered way. This is a drastic change from what has been in recent years. In honour of this government, this must be said.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u403	Mr President! There is certainly a lot of development in old age services and, of course, it is quite right to draw attention to these shortcomings, but then, on the other hand, I do not think it is appropriate, as it were, to stress only those negative issues and, in that way, to create uncertainty and concern, perhaps even in vain, because we all know perfectly well that there are different places where they are being treated, and it is certainly not always always about the kind of care they are being given, which, of course, is also working, but certainly not even the most impressive thing when we talk about how the elderly are being treated, what the level of care they are being given is. In the last period, the government targeted municipalities with very drastic cuts in central government shares, but then the much criticised principle of financial responsibility, which was then not implemented, is now being fulfilled, i.e. the state fully replaces the functions it has entrusted municipalities with. During the last period, many tasks were only partially replaced by municipalities, and you know what the result was for the municipalities. This is the only fair way to delegate these tasks, and it is also the best way to secure the services that every citizen in the municipality uses in his everyday life. The main thing is always the whole of the central government shares of municipalities, the whole, not so much the details in it and the individual factors in the central government system. From the point of view of the municipalities, this government has indeed done good in a way that is gradually turning towards a more favourable direction for the municipalities. One example of this is the fact that last week the reform ministers' group was insisting, in my opinion, quite rightly that the municipalities are not left alone, for example, in their social property.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u404	Madam President! I started my morning with the fact that I read in the local paper that the group sizes of early childhood education are not increased, that subjective day care rights are adhered to, that the staffing of elderly services is not counted — despite the will of the government. This was in our local paper, and Kotka, whose debt is perhaps the largest in Finland at the moment, is still trying to hold on to these. As has already been said several times, the State is directing the municipalities to take these decisions by means of its own policies, and when the whole is undoubtedly on the side of the plus, insofar as the minus of EUR 90 million does not materialise, however, the differences per municipality are very large both in terms of the impact of this competitiveness pact and in terms of these other effects, and in many cases the municipalities have no choice but to draw those minimum levels at that point, if the steering from the state side is introduced in such a way that these dimensions are changed, the law will be changed accordingly and the contributions will be changed accordingly, and that is the case. It may be that everything changes, and probably changes where municipalities can no longer adjust their own tax rate in a few years' time. It may be that everything changes when self-government comes, where self-government is not allowed to decide on the economy, not there on the part of the municipality or there on the part of the province.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u405	Mr President! It is clear from this government proposal that concrete savings will be made through the Competitiveness Pact. In Finland, public expenditure has been unsustainable throughout the turn of the 2010s in relation to the income of the export industry. For this reason, debts have been accumulated in municipalities. Congressman Kankaanniemi is right. In addition to strengthening local government finances, the government's efforts also provide evidence that this unsustainable relationship can and will be changed. All of us who are municipal decision-makers – most of us in the Parliament – know that the municipal economy will not have fat years in the next few decades. To deny this fact is dangerous populism. Instead of contesting the facts, we must take responsibility for corrective action while there is still time. There was a regional reform in whatever form, economic realities are now being bumped into and we need to make the structural changes that are necessary to secure welfare services in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u406	Madam President! When we talk about local government finances, we must remember that the municipality is primarily for people. When legislation is created here that will provide the framework in which the municipal service is to be built, the problem during this term of government has been that — even if social welfare and health services are to be paid — the decisions being made here to increase customer fees by 30%, now the municipalities have taken a very different view of this. We do not have customer fees raised in South Karelia, but there are a lot of municipalities where customer fees have been raised, and as a result, local residents across Finland are in an unequal position. Another point that has already been made here by Mr Paatero is, for example, the definition of subjective day care. Now we have municipalities where this demarcation has not been made in the proportions that could be done. There are very different interpretations with regard to this limitation. Interpretations of when this limitation can be made and on what basis and criteria vary very widely between municipalities. In this respect, as a result of the government, our citizens, including these children, will be in a very unequal position in those situations if this demarcation is to be implemented. Fortunately, in some municipalities this demarcation is not going to take place. Similarly, according to the Social Welfare Act, for example, when various loosenings have been made possible, there was now, for example, a message in a seminar that: The City of Jyväskylä is planning to weaken the social services of 300 families with children because this legislation will enable it in the future. In other words, this describes what, at the moment, this proposal in the municipal economy makes it possible, in a sense, to give municipalities more freedom when municipalities look at it very strictly from the point of view of the municipal economy alone, so the municipal citizen is easily forgotten here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u407	Mr President! This Act on central government transfers of basic municipal services contains the mechanism by which these relationships between the municipality and the State will eventually be built. In other words, this will provide municipalities with enough money from the point of view of the state, more or less the same amount as in previous years, and that is why this is in itself important. Nevertheless, the municipality still has and the municipality remains self-government, within which it decides its tax rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u408	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u409	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u410	Mr President! I would like to say to Mrs Katainen that there is nothing good about this human resources issue. So I understand that the government makes good decisions, for example, in improving home care and informal care support and so on, so that I am not saying that all government proposals are bad, but there is nothing good about this. These personnel measurements are now falling in enhanced service housing. If we know who lives in enhanced service housing, there today are very many people who need help. Now that this presentation makes it possible for fourteen people who need a lot of help to take care of one employee on duty, each one of us can conclude from this that the quality of care can no longer be discussed. This will lead to inequalities between the citizens, so it is worth considering which municipality will spend its last days as an aged person, because in one municipality you will receive a very high quality, good service, there will be enough money to hire those nurses, even though there is no state contribution, but in one municipality — if you live where there is little money — you can be treated by one nurse, and there will be thirteen others besides you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u411	Madam President! Various speeches here have highlighted the rights of the municipalities and, at the same time, it has been demanded that the responsibilities and the money of the municipalities should come hand in hand. And, as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen pointed out, this discriminates between municipalities, such as a reduction in the size of personnel or a restriction of subjective day care rights or increases in customer fees, because it is our duty to ensure equal and fair treatment, responsibilities and obligations in this respect. Well, then I'd pay attention to other things too. Here is this change in the basic income support expenditure of municipalities and it is this transfer of income support to Kela. That is a good decision, but it is good to take into account the social work and the resources that remain in the municipalities and also the seamless cooperation between Kela and social work in the midst of this change and in the future. Especially when the government's many cuts threaten to push more and more Finns below the poverty line and many people have to rely on income support, this is a situation that needs to be taken into account. Finally, I would also like to thank you for these efforts and additional resources in informal care, where there is a day off for carers and a variety of health checks. These have been very desirable for family carers for a long time now, and it is our duty, of course, to ensure that they are then used properly in the municipalities. And thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u412	Madam President! After that speech by Mr Kankaanniemi, I wondered where the savings to the municipalities came from and what the result was supposed to have been. That is simply the case when individual people start to collect more service charges. The tax increases that affect families, the unemployed, the sick, and these contributions cost the poor money away. On the other hand, when you think about what the kiky brought: it cuts holiday money from low-paid workers, increases working hours, transfers of employer contributions to employees. Then these are off the employee and out of purchasing power. And it is now the case that the small rise that is supposed to be taking place in the municipal economy will be paid for by the poor and the municipal and municipal workers. This is how it's gonna happen. If you look at those elderly services and the tightening of their staffing, then the idea is that there will be savings of about EUR 13 million. I think that is a clear transfer of money from residents to municipalities and not the right austerity measures to do in the state economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u413	Mr President! I would like to comment on this aspect of local self-government. So, of course, these are also value choices and questions at municipal level as to what the money is intended to be spent on. Take an example of my own constituency, where every city, including the most indebted cities, necessarily wants to have its own institutional theatre, most people want to have their own institutional orchestra. They are entirely voluntary forms of cultural activity, because only library activities are legal. These municipalities are now choosing to spend money on these matters instead of, for example, their carers. Is that right or wrong? That is the decision of each municipality's own decision-makers, but I just wanted to bring this up. Commenting on the fact that subjective day care is not an equal measure of care in many respects: I doubt anyone will say that reducing the nurse’s level of care as such is a good or desirable thing. I don't think so. But again, limiting the subjective right to day care has a broad public opinion behind it. A majority of people think that a person does not need day care if he is not at work. Moreover, the potential for savings in these measures is completely different. Day care measures can achieve millions of savings per year even at the level of a single medium-sized city, whereas this nursing measure only speaks of tens of millions at the level of the state. So the scale is completely different.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u414	Madam President! On this very subjective right to early childhood education, I would like to say that this is a child's right and that child's right must not depend on what the employment situation of his or her parents is. It is then a matter of family and day care and early education to consider how many hours he may be there. The problem here is also that, now that this limitation is in place, it is possible that, in various situations, full-time early childhood education is allowed for children, but the criteria used at present in different parts of Finland vary a great deal, and in that sense children are also in a very unequal position. Now, first of all, I would like to stress that early childhood day care is nothing, could it be said, such as a parent's place where the parents just take the child and the child is there as in custody and then they get him out, but it is, above all, an early childhood education place where the child's growth and development is supported. But then the second thing I would like to thank you for is this development of informal care, which will now total EUR 90 million. And the main purpose of this effort is precisely the development of these days of leave, these places: the finding of such places for families in a different life situation and, above all, for those who are being cared for, where this care can go, and the family nurse can take this day off well. But what worries me here is that if there is an investment of EUR 90 million, then at the same time the budget is expected to save EUR 60 million. The development of these holidays cannot mean that we are simply waiting for EUR 60 million to be saved. So this thinking doesn't really suit me right now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u415	Mr President! I, too, am concerned about differences between municipalities. For example, Kauniainen, which is one of the richest, most high-income taxpayers in Finland, pays 6 percentage points lower municipal tax than Kite, which certainly has a much lower income. This has been the case, and it is unreasonable. These economic differences between municipalities and thus service differences are offset by the central government system. And in the previous government during the last parliamentary term, under your leadership, the system of state subsidies was reformed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u416	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u417	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u418	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u419	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u420	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u421	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u422	The 18th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u423	Madam President! The Government's proposal proposes to amend the law on improving the competitiveness of maritime vessels by extending the scheme to sea-measurement vessels. At present, the crew costs of special vessels have not been eligible for support under the Crew Support Act. Sweden, like many other European countries, has enjoyed a considerable competitive advantage over Finland. Sweden, for example, has extended its aid scheme since 2014 to cover special vessels such as marine survey vessels, marine exploration vessels and fairway vessels. Similar extensions of the aid scheme have also been approved for Denmark and the Netherlands. Marine measurement is highly exposed to international competition, and this lack of conformity has unnecessarily undermined the international competitiveness of marine survey vessels flying the Finnish flag in the waters of both Finland and the northern parts of Europe. If the situation were to continue, it would probably lead to ships carrying out oceanography in Finland operating under the Panamanian flag for understandable reasons, for example, and receiving support from another country in Finland's territorial waters for foreign maritime transport. I do not consider this in any way in the interests of Finland. The current situation is perceived to be inappropriate in terms of the employment of Finnish marine surveying personnel, the preservation of Finnish marine measurement expertise, preparedness and defence, and for these reasons too, the government's proposal is necessary and strongly supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u424	The 20th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee, to which the Committee on the Environment must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u425	Madam President! Finland lives on exports, and the forest and metal industry is still the base for exports. In these industries, Finnish industry is not so much in competition with products in other parts of the world and with other countries, most of the time with countries outside the European Union. Much has now been said about both this emissions trading compensation and the energy tax cutter. These industries, which are affected by this issue, are those which, regardless of the country where these products are made, need a lot of energy, and that is why it is a question of whether it is better to make them here in Europe and in Finland, or whether we want these products and all this industry to move to China or some other side of Asia. In this debate it seems to me that this does not increase industrial emissions and this does not lead to a waste of energy, but that this industry is still so energy-intensive that all the energy efficiency measures that have been going on there for years will continue, so it is pointless to fear that this compensation will suddenly destroy the energy efficiency of the Finnish industry's own production, but of course everything will try to minimise this. In this energy tax cutter, which is therefore the second in this debate — not in this bill, this is the compensation for emissions trading — the situation is still that the Finnish industry is paying energy taxes. Somehow it seems that this debate is taking us to the point that just like the energy industry is getting something good, so that it is more of a levelling off of this competition, so it is not going to take up this burden of payment completely. Finland is an island, as has also been said many times, and that is why Finnish industry has an additional burden compared to its European competitors. That is why this opportunity within the European Union, which nine European countries have already decided to use to date, is therefore a starting point and an opportunity already accepted by the Union, and about half of what the European Union will be able to do in Finland for compensation, and it will still be affected by the price of the allowance, by the electricity consumption of its beneficiary or by the amount of production. No machine that would be given to everyone in the same amount would be coming, but would be matched by competition from other countries, mainly within the European Union and their industries, thereby avoiding carbon leakage from Finland and Europe, as it is assumed that these products would be made anyway, and it is up to the will of this House to make them less climate-friendly or more climate-friendly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u426	Madam President! The compensation scheme currently under discussion for indirect costs of emissions trading is intended to compensate for the higher prices of electricity generated by emissions trading to the electricity-intensive industry and thus contribute to reducing the risk of so-called carbon leakage by Finnish industry. However, this said risk of carbon leakage is a belief, not a fact based on observations. It is therefore a gift to the energy-intensive industry, not compensation. Just yesterday, the leading economist at the State Economic Research Centre, Marita Laukkanen, said in Helsingin Sanomat that this government proposal now under discussion does not protect jobs. This is a lump sum corporate subsidy that does not affect the production of heavy industry and does not increase the demand for labour in Finland. However, the proposal is justifiable in the workplace. EUR 43 million has been earmarked for next year, and by 2021 we will be talking about more than EUR 230 million. The money will be taken from emissions trading revenues that previously supported climate action in developing countries. Thus, in terms of climate policy, the situation is strange not only in Finland but also in terms of international climate policy. There are other specific arguments. For example, page 5 of the government proposal states that measures to reduce the risk of carbon leakage are justified, even though carbon pricing systems are becoming more widespread worldwide. However, this claim is not supported by any concrete evidence. For the growth of the national economy, this proposal is therefore based on beliefs and unclear. The proposal does not promote the conditions for growth in the national economy, nor does it contribute to the efficiency of business. On the contrary, such a high degree of commitment of resources to activities of relatively weak growth prospects in an environment of importance and international importance can reduce the growth potential of our national economy. VATT also points out that the paper and forest industries, for example, are already receiving significant subsidies in the form of tax refunds for energy-intensive industries and a lower electricity tax for service and trade companies. Sitra has also stated that it would be preferable to invest in higher value added production and research, intelligence and the circular economy. The proposal does not support these either. Madam President! Emissions trading compensation is often justified in the public domain by the fact that emissions trading increases the price of electricity. However, according to Eurostat's latest statistics, the price of industrial electricity in Finland is the second lowest in the European Union. In Poland, Estonia and Romania, for example, industry pays more for its electricity than in Finland, not to mention Germany. In order to promote employment and competitiveness, it would make sense to encourage those industries that have the best opportunities for growth globally. In Finland, for example, environmental technology is such an area. In Finnish environmental technology, the main component of turnover is technologies and services that improve energy efficiency. We now need a policy that would be ambitious in encouraging further improvements in energy efficiency. This would contribute to the development of technology and know-how in the sector and would bring domestic references to a highly competitive sector. The gift that the government is now giving to the energy-intensive industry is exactly the opposite: it is a brake on renewal, it is a brake on the development of domestic exportable know-how and, at the same time, it is a brake on the creation of new jobs. Mr President! Of course I also want to maintain existing jobs in Finland, but this instrument is quite expensive and quite ineffective.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u427	Mr President! Tonight I have challenged the Social Democrats on many points, but when there is reason to thank, we must thank them. The speech by Mr Paatero was excellent and highlighted a number of points that I myself would have liked to make. Like the Left Alliance and the Greens, the Social Democrats have not entered into this strange political attack on the interests of Finnish work. If other EU countries support their own industry, how can we manage that race without even using half of the compensation allowed? In its speeches, the Green Left has repeatedly been attacking this batch of aid since Question Time, using the outdated and wrong-based VATT research into energy-intensive industries. This has been the subject of a paper letter which, I believe, has gone to all the Members of Parliament, a whole series of export industry organisations from both the employer and the worker side, across its line. The letter gives the message that compensation is an essential and important element for the competitiveness and employment of our country's industry. This is an incontrovertible signpost for these theoretical reports on Sitra and who knows what else, which apparently do not understand practical matters. This support must be taken forward in this form. I support the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u428	Madam President! When this proposal came out, there was of course already information about it in the government negotiations, but now that it has come out, the same doubts were expressed here by the Greens. But the more you get to grips with this issue, the more it becomes clear that we must take this issue of carbon leakage extremely seriously. About 6 to 7 years ago I was on the Committee on Economic Affairs and visited Tornio's Stainless Steel Factory. There we talked to the management and watched the production. There is a huge need for energy, that is, a terrible amount of electricity is consumed. And knowing that in China the price of energy through coal and other sources, on the one hand, the price of labour, the price of raw materials, all levels of costs are quite different from ours, the Finnish Stainless Steel Factory, with its thousands of jobs, will by no means survive unless it is taken care of very carefully. That is what this is all about. So carbon leakage is a very high risk, certainly nine other EU countries would not have adopted this if they did not see this risk. In my view, this is particularly important for the steel industry, perhaps for the chemical and, in part, for the forestry industry. However, even after this aid, energy costs are still so great for companies that, despite this, they will certainly make their energy use more efficient, even through this support. This is how jobs will be secured and Finnish industry will be able to compete in the fierce competition in which it is today in the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u429	Madam President! Mr Mäkelä mentioned here that VATTI's investigations would be obsolete. However, as a matter of principle, I would be inclined to believe the researched information before Mr Mäkelä's comment that he thinks these are obsolete because the export industry has sent a letter in which the export industry wants more money for itself. It is certainly not unusual for us to receive a variety of letters, which give the most reasonable reasons why an industry or an operator in Finland needs money. The question is whether this model is now being put forward to support industry and whether it is responding to what it is allegedly made for. I believe that the model does not seem justified and that the risk of carbon leakage, which has been mentioned, does not seem credible. On the other hand, there are real risks for the maintenance of jobs in these industries in Finland, too, for quite other reasons, but carbon leakage is hardly the reason. As far as the letters we receive on paper are concerned, last week I also received a letter from organisations representing 1.5 million pensioners, which showed a number of concerns, for example, about the indexes of care for the elderly. I would like to ask whether Mr Mäkelä has read these letters with the same good attention as the export industry's greetings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u430	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u431	Madam Speaker! I stayed to think about what I had just said. When you think about the development of the Finnish forest industry, what it has been through time, you have been relying on that devaluation and that mechanical development and all this kind of innovation and other activities have been left out of it. That is why the current success of our industry has depended on the development of new products and new supplies that are produced there. Now it seems that the Finnish forest industry has been experiencing a new upturn, and the products are selling and the investments are being made fiercely, and in that sense I have been wondering how this money should be invested. When you think that at the same time you have been cut off from research, product development, education and other such things, with which you build this well-being and with which you keep the expertise and level of Finnish industry high, all the companies that I have visited are trusted in the level of competence and that Finnish education provides us with top-notch specialists with development tools and methods of improving products. I personally accept that industry is being supported and managed on these matters, but the fact that money has been taken away from where it is most needed is what worries me most at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u432	Mr President! I would recommend Mrs Parviainen to read the letters before commenting. The question was precisely that the letter also involved workers' organisations. I would not have given that letter the same weight if only employers' organisations had been there. Then that argument could have worked, that these organisations receive money for their members and that they are satisfied. What kind of money do employees get for this? They're worried about their jobs. They see that their jobs can be secured by this arrangement. As far as Vatti's research is concerned, or anyone else's research, they should probably go and present to our nine rival countries in the European Union, which are sending out even higher aid rates than Finland has intended. Do you really believe that we have scientists and scientists in this country who are more qualified than all these countries to tell us these facts? Unfortunately, I would not quite go along with this argument that we are wiser than all the nine countries in every Finnish research institute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u433	The 22nd item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u434	Mr President! Again, it's the time of the year when basic security is being cut. This time the list includes labour market support, national pension and some disability benefits. The last reason why the savings were directed at the poorest in this Chamber today was at the mouth of the Minister of Finance because the rich do not have any income transfers to cut. This isn't happening. According to Statistics Finland's income distribution statistics, the poorest ten Finns receive only 9.4 per cent of income transfers. The richest decile gets exactly 10, that is, a little more than the poor. The remaining 80.6% are divided into intermediate groups. Some of these figures are explained by earnings-related old-age pensions, but even without them the poorest share of income transfers is only 13.6% and the richest 5.6%. So it is not true that current transfers would go to the low incomes and therefore only they can be cut. There are more people in the lower income brackets receiving income transfers, but, on the other hand, the rich have higher lump sums. Where the taxable social benefits raised by the average poor remain below EUR 2000 per year, the rich person’s bank account is nearly EUR 70,000. The allocation of income transfers to those on good income is justified by the fact that earnings-related benefits are more own money than basic security benefits directly funded by tax. Pensions are called delayed wages and unemployment benefit is thought to be determined by unemployment insurance contributions. That's why they don't operate. But this is not exactly the case. Only the old-age pension is directly linked to the amount paid into the scheme, and that is also true of the amount of the pension, not its duration. In other earnings-related benefits, the main criterion is the pre-benefit level of income. Thus, a short period of high-paid employment justifies better social protection than a long low-paid career, even if the latter would have paid more than the premiums as a whole. Over the decades, our systems for combating poverty have become more and more the guardians of living standards. Although some earnings-related benefits are paid by specific contributions and run through special funds, the big picture often announced in this Chamber is that the public sector is channelling more generous social security to those already well-paid than to the poor. Personally, I believe that a transfer system based solely on basic security is not realism in a world of fragmented labour markets and rapid fluctuations in income. Income-related social security is needed to ensure change in these storms, at least until we have sufficient basic income. However, it is dishonest to say that the poorest are being cut when there is nowhere else to take from. The largest income transfers could also be cut, for example, through various roofs. It's a political choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u435	Mr President! This bill also weakens the situation of the most vulnerable citizens in particular, and that is why it is unacceptable. Government cuts seem to target the most disadvantaged: pensioners, unemployed, families with children, long-term ill and low-income people. And what is particularly worrying is that these many cuts are targeting the same people and thus causing significant problems in terms of income. In conclusion, the government's line increases inequality and income differentials between people, and this bill is one example of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u436	Madam President! Here in this Chamber, again, we are faced with political choices of value, and I am once again concerned that this cut, or even these cuts, will once again be directed at our most low-income citizens. That's why I can't accept this surgery. According to Kela’s studies, this increases inequality in income inequalities and, in particular, poverty rates will increase as a result of this decision, and especially pensioner poverty will increase considerably. As has been pointed out, the purchasing power of low-income people will fall and, for example, the guarantee pension will be cut, and I would like to increase the overall impact of these cuts on the different population groups, given the combined effects of different customer charges, reimbursement of medicines, Kela travel and other payments and income cuts on different groups. I would argue that in many respects these are targeted specifically at elderly, very low-income pensioners, and even that is where the responsibility lies with us as parliamentarians that this is a responsible policy in this period of time. Perhaps we too often have to answer these questions to the public, and I am no longer able to answer these people, which they should compromise on their own livelihoods.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u437	Madam President! It is easy to continue these two previous speeches, or indeed all three. This government proposal continues to undermine the livelihood and quality of life of the most low-income people. This will cut unemployment allowance, child benefit, disability benefits, guarantee pension, national pension, that is, people who live very well on social security. Unfortunately, therefore, the one big picture of the government is an increase in inequality, and this proposal will increase it even further. Just as has been said here in previous speeches, year after year, this always affects the same people and the same families: let us talk about pensioners, let us cut the level of pension, then if the family is ill, the medical costs will be increased and customer fees will be increased. And through it all these savings that the government makes will be cumulated with the same people year after year. For this reason, I myself would also have called for a uniform explanation of the overall impact of these cuts and savings and its impact on the various population groups before these savings were made and brought to Parliament. In my view, this type of legislative preparation, which is currently coming from the government itself, is also something that is degrading to Parliament, because we need to look elsewhere for this information and studies and impact assessments, because they are not automatically and naturally imported to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u438	Madam President! It is easy to agree with these previous speeches that this proposal is indeed a disgrace. This is where we cut off those lowest incomes, once again. And when we know that these same people are the ones who, for example, suffer the most, the other cuts of the government, though these sickness benefits, and the raising of the roof of the medical allowance will be targeted at these same people. There are alternatives. You don't have to operate on this. If we want to cut the transfer of income, then, just as Mr Kontula said, they can be targeted at the most well-off, not at the most vulnerable. It is no wonder that no representative of the government parties is currently present in this Chamber to defend this motion. They too must be ashamed of how to go back to the purse of the most disadvantaged. Even the Finns, who were still in this Chamber in the previous paragraph, said that it is certainly better to go out on this point, because such a decision cannot be made without shame.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u439	The 24th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u440	Mr President! In due course, child benefits were created as an income transfer from people without children, working people who pay taxes, to families with children. This transfer has been considered important and legitimised in our system, among other things, by the fact that we also rely on the public sector for pension provision. I am willing to pay the cost of living the children of another person in my taxes, because I know that one day the children of that other person will pay my pension and care for my old age. This is how our system runs. We also know that at the moment Finland is very concerned about the low birth rate, we need children here from elsewhere or by our own initiative, and we know that the financial distress of families with children has a direct impact on both the size of the family and also on the time of the first birth or on the age and willingness to start a family. In my view, in this situation, Finland cannot afford to cut child benefit from any income category, least of all, of course from the poorest.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u441	Madam President! It must be said that it is very descriptive that, when we move on to this theme, among other things, there is not a single member of the government party in the Chamber at the moment, but only opposition representatives here. Mr President! Child allowance has been a sacred thing for the Central Party, and I remember from the last period when the centre was very strongly critical of the government when child allowances were being cut, and then, under the leadership of the Social Democrats, a tax system was built to compensate for this child allowance for families with children with a very low income, and that was the way in which the cuts could then be fairly targeted, that this net income from child allowance was not lost for the lowest income families. But now that this government proposal is being read, it is quite clear here that the reduction in child benefit is expected to increase income support expenditure in the future. However, the increase in income support dependency is one of the major obstacles to the employment of low-income families with children, as income support is cut out as additional income increases. In the longer term, the proposed reduction in the level of child benefit in the event of higher prices, together with the removal of the indexation of the child benefit from the beginning of 2016, will also reduce child supplements and the purchasing power of families. THL has also estimated that current transfers, such as child benefit, parental allowance, home care allowance, have fallen short of the overall increase in prices and earnings if no one in the family works. The smaller the other incomes of the family, the more emphasis is placed on the importance of transfers to the family economy. This is why, among other things, child benefit plays an important role in families and is why the risk of poverty is increasing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u442	Madam President! I also share Mr Kiljunen's regret that no representatives of the government parties are involved in this debate. This saving decision on child benefit is short-sighted, firstly because it increases the poverty of families with children, which is already a very big problem in Finland. The impact of this cut on the poverty and dependency of families with children is clear, and I would draw attention to the fact that half of these families that are below the poverty line are currently not engaged in gainful employment, so these families are particularly vulnerable to this type of income transfers and, in particular, to their changes and, in particular, to their deterioration. When we know of the legacy of poverty and the importance of family low incomes to children's starting points, to build a good life and the unwanted challenges or problems, such as exclusion and life management, which have been shown to be affected by poverty, I find this surgery extremely worrying and short-sighted already, and especially from the point of view of the impoverishment of these families of children.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u443	Mr President! The aim is therefore to reduce child supplements to a saving of EUR 11.7 million for central government expenditure under the spending limits decision. Although the cut in child supplements is small in euro, its impact on the loss of purchasing power, for example, is increasing because the government has also decided to remove the indexation of child supplements. The government itself has stated that lowering child allowances will increase income support expenditure in the future and will also increase dependency on income support. We are now repeating the mistakes of the recession of the 1990s. At that time the income of families with children was cut off, and, for example, a study by THL shows that if parents had received long - term income support, children increased their education, mental health problems, custody and small - scale crime. This is what we should have learned from the previous recession. Similarly, there is a growing experience of income problems in adulthood. In other words, childhood conditions have a significant impact on later welfare. I cannot help but wonder why the government has still not carried out an overall assessment of the impact of savings decisions on families with children. I am afraid that these savings decisions will be very costly for society in the longer term.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u444	Madam President! I myself would have followed exactly what the Social Democrats have been talking about all this time, that is to say, a comprehensive assessment of these decisions on families with children. We would have liked such proposals to have been brought before Parliament in general, so an overall assessment would have been carried out, and thus better information would have been provided on the basis of these decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u445	The 25th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u446	Madam President! This is a bit of a continuation of last autumn's legislative proposal to continue to freeze the heating, water and maintenance costs of the pensioner's housing allowance and these average housing costs and maximum housing expenditure. We cannot accept that the housing allowance for a pensioner will be reduced in this respect, especially since we know that pensioners will also be subject to other cuts, such as the above-mentioned benefits linked to the National Pensions Index and the reduction in the level of medical benefits, the increase in travel compensation responsibilities and this 30% increase in customer fees and so on. So here you can see that pensioners and sick elderly people are being cumulated with all the cuts again. For that reason too, we would definitely have liked to have been able to carry out an impact assessment of this too, so that we would then know what the overall situation of pensioners is and, in this regard, for example, decisions could be taken on a better basis. We cannot therefore accept the proposal for housing aid for pensioners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u447	Mr President! This proposal, together with other proposed cuts for pensioners, will increase and deepen pensioner poverty. Savings on the livelihoods of the most vulnerable are unacceptable. Already we have a lot of elderly people who tell me that they have to wonder each month if they buy food at the store or if they buy medicine at the pharmacy. The number of these people continues to grow as a result of these decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u448	Madam President! I personally agree with the above-mentioned representatives that this surgery is unacceptable, as it is again targeted at people with very low incomes. The pensioner’s housing allowance is already paid by the already very low incomes and often by the elderly who live in cities. Perhaps even the problem with this weakening is that pensioner poverty is a real problem in Finland, and I think that the fact that something should be done about this problem is perhaps not so accepted here, because there is a constant deterioration which will only weaken the position of these particular people. And like the representative Mäkisalo-Ropponen also pointed out that increases in customer fees, large and significant reductions in medical fees, increases in Kela fees and in many cases even lower incomes will increase this pensioner poverty. I myself would also have withdrawn from the government the overall impact of these cuts on these ageing people, first of all, because I think they are seriously undermining the position of these people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u449	Madam President! We in the left have also had a debate on these issues and seen this as a straight line on the right of the government that the poor are being beset. This is one of the worst examples of how to do it. Old people who already have a difficult life situation are being taken away with housing subsidies and their position is being made more difficult. I know a lot of people, the old people I've been visiting, and they tell me how hard it is to have money running out and living normal, something that you could do less for yourself, it's not enough. We are constantly dependent on how money can be made from income support or from other sources. This is not at all the solution that we support at all here, and we will oppose this proposal which the government has based on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u450	Madam President! Representative Nurminen raised an important issue here, namely this pensioner poverty. I think this is something that we may not have understood well enough. We have often thought that in previous decades we had many low - income pensioners. Now, in the future, our pensioners will be a very heterogeneous group of people, and there will actually be quite a lot of well-off pensioners, but at the same time we will have extremely high numbers of very low-income pensioners in the future, for example because of the fact that many people have a very short or very fragmented career and there is no pension. It would therefore be extremely important for these various cuts, which are now being made in many different directions for pensioners, to be evaluated in such an overall way as to enable us to see what kind of pensioners are most affected by these savings. Of course, it is now possible to assess this only a little on the basis of these proposals, which has been the case today, that they do target those with the lowest incomes. We will have an increased number of pensioners living below the poverty line, and this is something that we should all be concerned about and indeed make a pensioner policy, which is primarily aimed at the low-income ones, and to ensure that every pensioner has the opportunity to live a decent old age and the income is sufficient to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u451	The 26th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u452	Madam President! I wonder whether the reduction in the maximum duration of this adult education and training allowance and the reduction of the basic part, in the light of current employment trends, makes sense. Although I understand that this is part of the Kiki agreement, I think it would be good for us to discuss the effects of this weakening. I would like to start by paying particular attention to the increased use of this support. In 2009, the number of beneficiaries was around 4000, but in 2015 the number of beneficiaries was as high as 19,000. On the other hand, it has been found that this support is used in particular by women-dominated sectors, especially the care and care sector and then by staff on the teaching side. Above all, this support is important because it responds to these already existing and future changes in working life and education also prevents unemployment to a very significant extent. In other words, I believe that, although this is part of the Kiki agreement, this cut should be looked at critically, possibly cancelled, and above all the impact of this weakening on employment and also on gender should be assessed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u453	Mr President! This is an operation, and I am sure it will not come as a surprise that the Left Alliance is also opposed to it. This addresses both the amount of training aid and the length of it, which I am particularly concerned about. This current length is not enough to complete an entire new vocational qualification and it has not been possible to use it. The situations in which this full support has been used have been those in which a person has wanted to improve his/her skills in a specific area of competence, for example, to develop his/her IT skills or to undertake training in management of a 20-week course, or situations in which he/she has studied for a long time in the course of his/her work and as if he/she wants to complete his/her studies with this support when he/she wants to focus more on them. This has been particularly the way for women to improve their own labour market position in a situation where we know that education for women is far more important than for men in terms of career advancement due to our unequal labour market. Thus, it is also inevitable that the weakening will affect women in particular. If it were up to me alone to decide, I would build such a Finland where no education would be in vain and no surgery would be directed at education. When we are in a country that is not terribly resource-rich, which is capital-poor, whose only great treasure is its own people, of course we should strive for a policy in which all education is not just in the interests of its individual but in the interests of all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u454	Mr President! This draft law proposes to reduce the maximum duration of aid for adult education from 19 months to 15 months and to reduce the basic amount of aid by 15%. The financing base for adult education and training aid will be changed so that the State will no longer fund the adult education allowance for the wage and salary earners, but will be financed in full by the Unemployment Insurance Fund. However, the state would continue to finance adult education for the entrepreneur. This bill has been agreed in the kiky negotiations and the social partners wanted this agreement to be included, as the original government proposal would have weakened adult education support considerably more than this proposal. In my speech, however, I would like to point out the importance of adult education. After all, the use of aid has increased significantly in recent years. In 2009, it was used by 4,000 people but in 2015 already by 19,000, i.e. aid is a prevention of unemployment and is also a good response to changes in working life. The Adult Education Fund conducted an impact study on adult education in 2014. A few things about this impact study. Ninety-six per cent of those who used adult education aid said that the importance of the aid was quite or very important, which enabled them to apply for training. Ninety-three per cent of the employers who used the aid agreed. Approximately two thirds of the recipients of adult education and training used the benefit to redirect their skills or acquire a new profession. The benefit had helped its users to find employment in new jobs or into a new profession. About one third of their current positions had progressed in adult education and training. The impact study on adult education aid showed that economic reasons are the main obstacle to education and that adult education support enabled economic studies for many people who would otherwise not have been able to go to study. In addition to enabling professional development and exchanges, adult education support improved the ability to work and to continue at work. This is what the people who took part in this survey said in support of adult education. Thus, adult education support is also a good way to prolong working lives. I very much hope that the benefits of adult education will not disappear with the weakening of support. Finally, Mr President, there is no gender impact assessment in the government's proposal, and I think that is a great shortcoming, because it affects women more, especially those in the social and health sector and in the education sector. Indeed, it would have been appropriate to carry out a gender impact assessment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u455	The 27th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u456	Mr President! According to the Government Resolution of 2013 and still in force, a housing development programme for the elderly, we need one million accessible and safe housing in our country by 2030 if we are to have at least 92 per cent of 75-year-olds living at home. The main challenges facing old blocks of flats in terms of accessibility are linked to the lack of lifts or to the small size of existing lifts, according to this Resolution. In 2015, a total of 40 million of these grants under the Remedies Act were available, with 25 million in 2016, and now 35 million are proposed, which means that the trend has been falling, although now this year there would be a little more than last year. Nevertheless, the question remains why these resources are being reduced, why there is no more funding for this activity, because the need for this is growing as the population ages. If people want to support living in the home of the elderly, this would be a very good way to do so. On top of that, this support for repair will also have quite a significant impact on employment, so the government would have preferred to invest more in this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u457	The 28th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, TAVM 18/2016 vp. The hearing was suspended at the plenary session on Friday 16 September 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-27-ps-90.u458	The 29th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. The case was suspended on Thursday 15 September. (meeting of...), the European Economic and Social Committee
