ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to ask questions to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u2	Congressman Taimela.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u3	Mr President! The Finnish transport operator keeps the economy's wheels rolling. This demanding and heavy sector is already experiencing enormous pressure on profitability. Entrepreneurs have followed the government's actions with concern because you are releasing the arrival of foreign trucks to Finland's roads. Not only would this revolutionise the competitive situation, it would open the door to the black economy and would challenge jobs in the transport sector even further. We are talking about an industry that costs an estimated 2.7 billion billion dollars of turnover, i.e. almost half the taxes on the state and employs 100,000 employees. On Tuesday, it became clear in the Parliament that the proposal does not include support in the parliament, even from representatives of the government parties. On Tuesday, we also heard from Minister Berner that the proposal came from the government's Committee of Ministers for Europe. Minister Soini, you presented the matter to the Committee of Ministers. Mr President! Mr Soini,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u4	Madam President! Unfortunately, this cabotage directive is withdrawing from the EU in the same way as the sulphur directive in due course. Unfortunately, the previous governments have failed to enforce Finland's interests and have allowed such a directive to be born. And now that such a directive has come into being, we are dealing with its unfortunate consequences. This is to be understood that, in exactly the same way as the sulphur directive, this cabotage decision is, unfortunately, an EU directive which has been adopted in this form for the government and lobbying of the time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u5	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register and remind them that the maximum length of questions and answers is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u6	Mr President! It is indeed a question of EU directives and their implementation. In order to fill the gaps in the directive, Finland has laid down definitions of temporaryity and transport, of which the government is now giving up after the challenge of the EU Commission. Minister Soini, we have a choice. For example: Denmark is not giving up its own national policies in the same situation. One cannot help but wonder about the government's willingness to change the current Finnish line — especially now that the EU road law package is expected at the beginning of next year and, in the context of that package, this issue would also have been dealt with. If this proposal is now passed, it is clear that there will be difficulties. At the moment, we do not have the tools and resources of the authorities — the health and safety authorities, Customs and the police — to carry out control tasks. And what will happen if these oversight tasks increase? Against this background, I wonder very much why the government has left this particular issue to make Finland a model EU student country. Mr President! I ask Minister Soin: why is the government prepared to completely forget the national
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u7	Mr President! It is very nice to see that, when the SDP is now an opposition party — when this directive was being prepared, I believe it was a government party — you have now come to this view. But the situation in this respect is that this directive is being implemented. Of course, now that the government's proposal is in Parliament, it is in Parliament, in the Committee on Transport and Transport, and it is also up to Parliament to decide.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u8	Mr President! Last summer I met an SME in the transport sector at the market in Seinäjoki. He was very concerned about the situation, said that if this legislation were to be introduced he would have to put the whistle in the bag. On Tuesday we had a good referral debate with a great consensus. Risks and disadvantages were identified and 100,000 jobs were involved. Indeed, the EU Commission is about to adopt the Road Transport Package 2017 and I have, in a way, already received an answer, but I would ask: is it possible that this issue could still be transferred to the EU Road Package coming to Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u9	Mr President! To the extent that this is a matter for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is a question of whether the rules are complied with in Finland or not. So this is what it was all about. But the substance itself always, of course, if there is good new information, can be negotiated. But then, when you look at this cabotage regulation, the same applies to the right of Finnish drivers to do this cabotage traffic across Europe and to open up the market for Finnish transport companies there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u10	Madam President! I wonder, Minister Soini, your line. You sit on the EU's Committee of Ministers, you have people there, ministers who should be familiar with what you are doing. And we are well acquainted here in Parliament with this debate — we know this very well — In Finland, it has been seen as a collective lobbying that not a single inch is given in this matter. You were not willing to ask Parliament to change legislation or to wait for the EU to come to the table with its own actions. But you specifically wanted us to abandon all national measures and go in front of the EU. I wonder how this is possible when the position of the Ministry of Transport is very strict on this issue, that even an inch should not give up. You are now endangering the safety of Finns, our transport industry. I think this is a pretty big question, especially Prime Minister Sipilä, for you, who are talking about the profitability of Finnish work. I would also like to ask Prime Minister Sipilä if you would agree with this statement by Mr Soin and consider this presentation by Mr Soin to be one of the following:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u11	Mr President! This is the decision of the EU Committee of Ministers and now in Parliament, and, as the Foreign Minister said above, in the hands of Parliament and in the deliberations of Parliament. If there is a better way, then the better way has always been good enough for this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u12	Madam President! Now that Mr Kiuru spoke — who was in trouble and where? Who was on watch at the time of the preparation and implementation of this directive in the EU? Who has been working on the groundwork before the sulphur directive in order to do this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u13	Madam President! This is certainly a challenging solution for the Finnish transport industry. It is important that we now also seek solutions on every front in this situation. Today morning we have met with representatives of the European Parliament's Transport and Tourism Committee, and we have also considered that, now that the road package is being processed for the European Union, it will look again at the cabotage package, look at the social impact, try to assess national mobility and, above all, see to it that there is equal and uniform conditions of competition for all entrepreneurs. In this situation, Parliament has its own responsibilities and opportunities, and it is also up to us to see that we can take other measures to support transport entrepreneurs at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u14	Madam President and Minister Soini! You're not gonna get out of this. Minister Soini, the previous government did not abandon this line in Finland. The Minister of the previous government didn't bring this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u17	Madam President! As I said earlier, we have this mandatory directive adopted and we will do... It is very interesting that the Social Democrats now want to act differently from their long-standing line. In your time. Then again, Mr President, if the vote were to be heard, we also have many actions to correct this. One is, of course, that this is in the hands of Parliament — I have no objection to it if we get a better solution, then that is a good thing. We have the opportunity to set a vignette fee for foreign hauliers to come under strain, and then grant relief from it to Finns. Yes, we do have artificial selections, but what makes these things so bad has gone wrong in the preparatory work of previous governments in the European Union.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u18	Mr President! The directive will be transposed into national law and will always have a certain opportunity to take national considerations into account, and in the previous government the Minister for Transport Kyllönen had done just that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u21	Madam President! As far as the EU is concerned, I believe it is a regulation which in fact leaves very little room for national decision-making. I would also like you to take this perspective into account. Finland drives 20,000 tonne-kilometres a year. Of these, 86 tonne-kilometres are driven by foreign trucks, or 0.4 per cent in total. At the same time, Finnish cars drive 250 tonne-kilometres abroad. In the case of cabotage in particular, it would be important to find a solution that would allow fair and fair conditions of competition for all parties involved and would also allow good supervision. This is where Customs and the police have done a very good job, especially last year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u22	Mr President! The free movement of products and services is one of the EU's key principles and it is therefore understandable that competition in the transport of goods, i.e. cabotage, has been sought to open up to competition, including the transport of other European companies to competition. However, there are other possibilities to ensure the competitiveness of domestic transport companies. For example, other EU countries have already introduced vignette charges and, in the name of road safety, we could impose national winter tyre regulations. My question is: are these already being prepared for Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u23	Madam President! Yes, we are. We are now preparing a road law that will take winter tyre regulations into account and should ensure our road safety. The aim is to tighten the requirements for heavy-duty snow tyres in this respect. In addition, we have studied the introduction of electronic transport documents, the tightening of the law on subscriber liability, the introduction of tolls and the development of the resources and skills of Customs and the police.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u24	Madam President! The transport sector has produced EUR 6 billion in money in its industry. Among them, taxes amounted to EUR 2.7 billion. Now these decisions and these measures and concessions seem to Finland to be giving up this tax revenue. What will the final measures be to secure these tax revenues to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u25	Madam President! The aim is to ensure that Finnish transport entrepreneurs have full access to equal competition. It is important to us that we have very successful family businesses and other companies in Finland that are able to promote our exports and freight transport. That is why the government has been watching the introduction of road tolls, and that is why we have the reports prepared. We have seen how we can increase road safety by taking care of winter tyre regulation, by introducing electronic transport documents, but above all by taking care of the law of the subscriber, which is in fact the best way for us to ensure social justice at the moment and also to oblige the subscriber to take responsibility in that regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u26	Mr President! There is so much misinformation about this that a few things will now be corrected. This is therefore an EU regulation which has been adopted during the last government and is in force. Now the EU is forcing Finland to make these little changes, but at the same time the government is taking many other compensatory measures to ensure that the Finnish transport entrepreneur is doing better.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u27	Madam President! The government has to make decisions on road charges at the time of the spending limits. It is possible to make a separate decision on winter tyres and the related decision by means of a regulation. The reform of the Road Traffic Act comes to Parliament at the end of the year. With regard to electronic transport documents, we can decide quickly with a regulation and digital control and associated opportunities we will have joint negotiations with both Customs and the police.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u28	Madam President! Indeed, this cabotage proposal was already brought to Parliament on Tuesday and it was now heard that these heavy road tolls and winter tires are already quite advanced in preparation. I would have asked the Minister: would it be appropriate to put a brake on parliamentary procedure until these other laws are ready to come to the hearing?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u29	Madam President! As I said back then on Tuesday, the government will exercise its government responsibility and implement those EU-MINVA policies and will also take care of the overall advantage that Finland’s interests have in relation to other EU objectives. Parliament will then have its own responsibility to assess the measures it can take to influence this whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u30	Mr President! It has certainly been noted in the government that all the players in this sector believe that this should not be changed because we have a national interest in ensuring that this sector is successful and that good rules of play are respected here. In this context, there is a particular concern that this can bring more black economy to this country, which we need no more than this. That is also why you can start moving cars in this country that do not comply with working conditions, as should be observed in this country. That is why the question arises, above all, as to how the government thinks otherwise about combating this grey economy. You have welcomed our many proposals. What is the state in which the fight against the shadow economy is now more widespread in this society, given the need for rapid action now? — This was the main question. So during the last term of government, there were these same pressures. We just didn't give up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u31	Madam President! After all, the government has made the decisions. I believe that Mr Ihalainen also knows that the programme to combat the shadow economy which was launched during the last term of government will continue fully, and the Committee on Economic Policy also stated then that it will be made permanent. I am very pleased with this decision. It will ensure that the policemen and women who are doing this valuable work are able to continue in their work, and because this is also an economically sound activity — it will have a clear counterpart when these economic crimes can be solved and the black economy eradicated — these decisions have been very good for the government, encouraged by Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u32	Madam President! As an example of this cabotage operation: Customs has stopped 86,000 heavy-duty vehicles last year, a little fair, and 24 cabotage suspects have been apprehended in these cases. These fair 86,000 have verified vehicle papers and also permits and related documentation. The police have done more control work between January and September last year, a total of 1.5 per cent. Ten per cent more suspects have been apprehended. In other words, we have been working in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u33	Last question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u34	Mr President! The debate gave some hope, but it seems that the government is not prepared to withdraw its proposal. That is the case, even though no one really seems to be in favour of the proposal. It was disconcerting that when the operating conditions of Finnish transport entrepreneurs are weakened, Mr. Jalonen, Chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, talks about'small changes'. Fortunately, there is a broad understanding of Finnish transport companies and industry employees in Parliament, which I noticed in the referral debate on Tuesday. I really hope that we can work together to ensure that this issue is not progressing and that, as a result, the Finnish transport operator will continue to operate in a fair competitive environment. Mr President! Minister Soini: You are now sitting on this rubber wheel. As we already know, with this proposal, the grey economy is becoming even more rampant, tax revenues are falling, unemployment is increasing, are you prepared to convene a committee of ministers and withdraw this proposal from Parliament, as the government has done several times during this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u35	Madam President! Let us make a few points in this connection. The second is that when this cabotage arrangement came to Finland, the Finnish driver would, of course, be put at a disadvantage in Europe, or wherever, in a similar situation. — — — — Well, of course, in such a way that other Member States can restrict the activities of Finnish companies if Finns restrict their activities. This is absolutely obvious. Then there's the other thing... — Mr Arhinmäki, listen, you may even receive information.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u36	Next question, Congressman Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u37	Mr President! The draft's first amending budget for this year is that the state's hiking and recreation areas are transferred to the Metsähallitus' financial balance sheet, i.e. under the obligation to make a profit. In addition, the Metsähallitus bill proposes a new, so-called third balance sheet for Metsähallitus in addition to the current economic and nature protection aspects, which would be in practice under the management of the plant, i.e. the Director General and the Economics. The government of this so-called third balance sheet item is moving up to 360,000 hectares of Upper Lapland's natural economy. Such transfers may jeopardise the fragile forest peace in Northern Finland. At the same time, the international reputation of the Finnish forest industry may be jeopardised even more. Has the government really considered the possible consequences of this — perhaps even the major forest disputes will flare up
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u38	Mr President! Finland has a good reputation as a practical operator of sustainable forestry, and we have broad consensus on how to take biodiversity into account in the management of economic forests. We have common lines between industry, forest owners and environmental organisations. That practical work in forests determines not what government balance sheet account some asset happens to be on. In connection with the amendment of the Metsähallitus Act, Metsähallitus' social obligations remain unchanged, Metsähallitus is not subject to new income requirements, and Metsähallitus plans in detail what it is doing in Northern Finland and will take into account all the interests of society in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u39	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this matter to register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u40	Mr President! You, Minister Tiilikainen, represent Hossa territory as a new national park. That is a welcome proposal. This area of Hossa is essentially a similar area of camping, which Metsähallitus' proposal is now moving under the economic side where Metsähallitus has made fellings that have been opposed by local people. Locally it has been seen that in Hossa hiking and tourism brings more economic benefits than logging. Due to this local pressure, you have now made a welcome statement that this area will be turned into a national park. Have you had any idea of this experience of Hossa now that you have prepared these plans for the transfer of land by Metsähallitus from hiking and recreation to the economy, and has the wider impact of these issues on the national economy been in mind?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u41	Mr President! Indeed, in accordance with its programme, the Government has decided that when Finland turns 100 in 2017, Finland deserves a festival national park and the festival national park will be established in the Hossa Terrible-Olkky region. It has a very diverse nature, it is already an area known to hikers and certainly deserves this national park status. In hiking areas Metsähallitus carries out much lighter forestry than usual because, according to its name, the provision of recreational services in these areas is also a very important objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u42	Mr President! The Government's proposal for a new law on Metsähallitus is currently being discussed by Parliament, and there is also strong concern that Metsähallitus will actually create such a new balance sheet. It may sound like a technical matter to people, but its content is rather frightening. In the past, we have clearly had a balance sheet for nature conservation in which the state's land and water assets will be maintained for future generations, from which Parliament decides that it will be kept in good condition, that it will be in a natural state, that there will be no economic activity, and then there will be an economic balance with a return target. Now you are creating this third balance sheet, in which Metsähallitus' management, the Group's management, can then take various recovery measures there, which Parliament cannot decide on. Similarly, you propose that Parliament should no longer decide on future transfers between this conservation balance and this new third level. Parliament's authority as to whether strange sales transactions are being made in Finland's forests and waters,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u43	Mr President! I recall that a few days ago there was a calming representative in this Chamber, Niinistö, who asked why people should be intimidated. Why do you have to scare people, Congressman Niinistö? In connection with the reform of the Metsähallitus Act, the Finnish Government and Parliament continue to require Metsähallitus to provide services to society in a wide variety of ways: economic returns to cover all our expenditures, biodiversity benefits, especially in protected areas, but also in connection with the treatment of economic forests, extensive coverage of recreational services and other social benefits. In connection with the Metsähallitus Act, we also want to ensure that the local voice is heard and the opportunity to take into account the different interests at the local level as well. All of this will be preserved regardless of which account
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u44	Mr President! The Metsähallitus Act, as you said, has also sought to take account of local people when making decisions about those areas. But the government has decided to remove the articles relating to the rights of the Sámi to participate in the use of their own countries. When Parliament dealt with the ILO agreement, which is still on the table, the opponents specifically said that special legislation should take these matters into account. Why is it that the Ministry of Justice and then the government and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry — or what is it — have changed their position on this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u45	Madam President! With regard to this Metsähallitus law and the Sami people in general, I understand that the Sami matter is currently being seen by the Constitutional Committee, that is to say, in relation to this Metsähallitus law. That's what I understand. The Sámi issue in general is very difficult with regard to the ILO Convention and the Sámi Parliament. Now the situation is, in a way, calmed down but, of course, it was not resolved. It is my wish that we should be able to move forward with this calming down and this reflection on this issue. I've been there for a visit. I have heard these positions and I know how difficult this is from the last parliamentary term. The Sámi question is now being resolved in a very constructive spirit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u47	Mr President! When the government brings in a proposal that the parliament is about to discuss, it is always the most fruitful thing to think about what new it will bring in comparison to the prevailing situation. With that new bill, the position of the Sámi will not be weakened compared to that of the existing legislation and practice — even slightly improved, as those new regional councils will also bring the Sámi’s voice to be heard more widely. The reform of the Metsähallitus Act has lasted for many years. Many drafts have been seen along the way, to which Mr Biaudet referred. But I repeat: Metsähallitus law and motion do not weaken the position of the Sami people compared to the legislation and practice in force.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u48	Madam Speaker! Finland has always known and is still able to operate in the forest and nature, in an environment that benefits everyone. It is in harmony with protection, with recreational use, with business activity, and so it will be in the future, and so it should be. The government has a very good line on the bioeconomy, very ambitious targets, perhaps the most ambitious targets in the world in this respect, and that is where we must go. There is no other way that Finland can get away from the fossil economy towards the bioeconomy, except that we use our natural resources in a sustainable way — our natural resources in a sustainable way. I would like to ask Mr Tiilikainen a question: the EU is also bringing a number of difficulties to this issue. One such is the sustainability criteria, which, according to some data, are at least incompatible with these big objectives. What is the current state of affairs with regard to sustainability criteria? Can we continue to use our natural resources in a sustainable way?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u49	Mr President! Indeed, in the context of the reform of the European Union's climate policy, the sustainability of biofuels and renewable energy will certainly also be assessed at European level. In fact, we are working very well with Minister Rehn here, and it is primarily Mr Rehn's responsibility. Both of us discussed it with climate commissioner Cañete when he visited us. But the basic question is that in Finland we have already achieved the 2020 targets in terms of renewable energy, and a very large part of this renewable energy production relies in one way or another on raw material from the forest. As a by-product of sawsaws, bark and biting turn into energy. In the pulp mill, in connection with paper production of fibre and paperboard, a large proportion of wood is converted into energy, [President MariaLohela : To the end. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u52	Madam President! This is the biggest proposal of this parliamentary term, which has implications for the use and management of Finnish national wealth, our state forests, countries and waters. Competition neutrality must be implemented, i.e. bankruptcy protection and tax advantage must be abolished, but it does not require a limited liability company for forestry activities. There would also have been other ways of implementing this neutrality of competition. This performance is confusing and ambiguous. Management systems are flawed. For example, Härmälä said publicly that there will be a case of Metsähallitus versus Metsähallitus trials. What about the areas of land use coordination where tourism, forestry, extractive industries, reindeer husbandry and the Saami are located? What about social obligations, why cannot they also be registered with this company that is to be established? This law is a wolf at birth. What are you doing to improve the content of this law?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u54	Mr President! Mr Ojala-Niemelä describes in a delicious way a variety of problems and doubts, but unfortunately no solutions. As I said, for several periods of government this law has been prepared and now it was time to bring the proposal to Parliament. As I have said before, as a minister, I respect Parliament as the supreme legislative body and I am very sympathetic to all the improvements that Parliament is able to make to this law, if any. It's in the hands of the Parliament. I hope that it will be dealt with thoroughly and carefully. For my part, I have done my best to reconcile these diverse demands in a spirit of sustainable forestry and sustainable development.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u55	Last question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u56	Madam President! Metsähallitus is an important player in society, manages one third of our country's surface area, and it is therefore important to emphasise the guidance of society and parliament. It is quite right to ask — and I have not yet received an answer — and I ask: what is the purpose of creating that third balance sheet in Metsähallitus? It is said that general waters, natural economy areas, are now being transferred, but they do not have a business-related profit claim, but in the future these balance sheet transfers would no longer be decided by Parliament but by the Government. What purpose does this serve? And second of all, when you say that the rights of the Saami will not be weakened, I ask whether they will improve. There is a contradiction here: when you look at the Water Act, the Environmental Protection Act and the Mining Act, which already contain the ban on weakening the Sami culture, you do not want to bring them into the Metsähallitus Act for some reason. Why?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u57	Mr President! As I have said several times, the position of the Sámi does not deteriorate compared to the current situation. What is the reason for this threefold balance sheet presentation? It's logic. We have basic capital in Metsähallitus, which is subject to a return requirement, and in connection with the budgetary process, Parliament sets the target of the result that is sought from these economic forests. We have areas in the state's territory where there is a clear protection barrier: national parks, natural parks, other protected areas. They belong to their own balance sheet item. In addition, we have in the middle areas where there is no return claim but where there is no legal protection restriction either. This trinity is an unusually clear presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u58	Next question, Congressman Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u59	Mr President! During the week it was announced that the United States Air Force National Guard Unit from Oregon is making a fleet visit to Finland, and the unit also participates in cross-border exercises with Finland, Sweden and Norway. Recently, in the Defence Committee, we sought information from both the Minister of Defence and officers, who, who, and when, became the call and initiative for a fleet visit. We received no reply, so we left a written question to the minister concerned. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs or any other government minister have anything to say about how this progressed? Did Finland invite these fighters to Kuopio or the United States?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u60	Madam President! Usually, of course, when questions are asked, questions are asked when the minister concerned is present. But I'm still gonna answer. This has been decided in accordance with the normal decision-making procedure. On 20 November 2015, SG-UTVA discussed and directed the Defence Forces' participation in international training and training activities. And just as you asked, so there has been information in the Committee on Defence and, of course, when it comes to the Minister of Defence, I do not know what has been asked and dealt with, but of course the written question will be answered. This has normally gone the way it has. At the moment, if I remember correctly, we have 87 exercises per year, apparently. This is how it works.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u63	Mr Mustajärvi will probably ask another question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u64	Mr President! This is also foreign policy, Minister Soini. It is precisely in foreign and security policy and defence policy that an enormous amount has happened and is happening within a short period of time, and NATO research is currently being carried out, among other things. Regarding the sensitivity of matters, the Programme Director of the Finnish Institute for Foreign Policy hastened to warn against deliberate misunderstandings in connection with this fleet visit. Has there been a change in the Finnish line, Minister Soini, when such new openings populate this without proper information from Parliament and its committees? And would it be appropriate to improve the flow of information in such a way as to keep Parliament up to date with such important matters?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u65	Mr President! To begin with, this has nothing to do with NATO. Finland is not currently applying for NATO membership, nor is it brought to us by plane, Mr Mustajärvi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u66	Next supplementary question, Mr Arhinmäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u67	Madam President! Of course, this is a foreign policy issue, and you, Mr Soini, are on the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. As you said, it has been discussed that American aircraft will be rehearsing in Finnish airspace. Mr Mustajärvi asked a very simple question and it was certainly dealt with in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Who invited these U.S. fighters into Finnish airspace — Finland or the United States itself?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u68	Madam President! There are 87 of these exercises when I was watching here. There have been 65 educational activities in previous years. Of course, the reason for this increase is because Finland and Sweden, as NATO partners, practice cooperation together. That's what this is about. Unfortunately, I am not in a position to respond in detail to this, because this is a matter for the Minister of Defence, but in any case it is quite clear that these exercises usually go so that, in the context of the crisis management review, as part of the international exercise, these are listed and then decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u69	Madam President! The United States is the most important bilateral partner of the Finnish Air Force. These fleet visits have been taking place since 1997. This is a perfectly normal exercise, which, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs said, is tens of times a year. This fleet visit is planned together, as are all other bilateral cooperation exercises. This visit is part of the Defence Forces' international training activities for this year. As the Foreign Minister said, this was discussed in TP-UTVA in November, and the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs has been informed this week, and the committee will continue to deal with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u70	Madam President! It is good that the Defence Forces' international training activities are expanding,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u73	Madam President! The defence administration is one of the few sectors of government that receive more money, and this has also happened. Last year, too, we added funds to the additional flight hours budget precisely to ensure that the Defence Forces’ performance in the air force is maintained.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u74	Madam President! This is a proper project, and it is therefore important that all the questions that are asked in this respect are also given very clear answers. Of course, there is an essential aspect here: who has taken the initiative? Of course, we must have an answer to that. It cannot be anything that is obscure, because the answer distances itself from the doubts, the unfounded doubts that are inherent in the matter. Mr President! I ask the government: would it not be justified if, under the leadership of the President of the Republic, the Government's Committee on Foreign Affairs has decided on the list of exercises ahead of us, what will be done in the future, then a code of conduct could be established whereby the relevant parliamentary bodies would immediately be informed and consulted? If you distance yourself from it, it will provide a completely unnecessary atmosphere for leaks and a variety of speculations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u75	Madam President! Mr Kanerva, the chairman of the Committee on Defence is absolutely right. This must be precisely the case if doubts are to be dispelled. Twice a year as part of the international exercise, as part of the crisis management review, these lists must come, and when the exercises, as I mentioned, there are 87 now, there were 65 of them, this is the way in which they are brought and must be brought to Parliament's presentation and consideration in the relevant committees. This is a perfectly normal procedure for doing so. That is how it will be from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u76	Let us take one more question on this subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u77	Mr President! Practice in a tense international situation is not a big deal. Two years ago, after the start of the crisis in Ukraine in the Government's Committee on Foreign and Security Policy, a line was drawn between Finland and the President of the Republic that Finland will continue to participate in international exercises with NATO countries, with others, and not opting out of anything that we have previously been involved in and that meets our criteria for the benefit of Finland's defence, but also that we will not participate in an international exercise which, in a changed situation, has acquired a different character and can be interpreted in another way and that Finland would have changed its fundamental security policy policy policy in some way. I would like to ensure that this line is still in force, and I hope that Minister Soini will also be able to say that the Foreign Minister himself has gone through this in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u78	Madam President! It is natural that this should be the case that it is affected by the operating environment. The operating environment has also changed to the extent that it has been decided to deepen defence cooperation between Finland and Sweden. It also has a clear impact on our local environment and on how other actors in the region might experience this. Of course, this exercise, which we have here, can also add value to this cooperation between Finland and Sweden and similar cooperation, but yes I say, the previous Foreign Minister's Judgments, that your position is quite reasonable, and we must make a policy in time and, of course, take these matters into account, especially in a sensitive international political situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u79	Next question, Congressman Essayah.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u80	Madam President! It is indeed the case, as the Foreign Minister mentioned, that there is a delicate foreign policy situation. There is certainly now a need for a good foreign policy, because both Russia and the NATO countries have announced in recent days that they will increase their military presence in this area close to ours. Russia has deployed anti-aircraft equipment and is reorganising its forces in that Western military area, and NATO countries have responded by announcing that they will deploy additional forces in, among other things, the Baltics and Poland. Britain has also just announced that it will send five warships to the Baltic Sea. I would have asked Foreign Minister Soin: has the government now discussed this tense situation in the Baltic Sea? And next week, when there is a meeting of EU Foreign Ministers, will you raise the issue of this tense situation in the Baltic Sea region?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u81	Madam President! Of course, the government is responsible for monitoring everything that is happening in the immediate vicinity, and in this respect, the common foreign and security policy at European level is constantly considering these situations. There is also one big issue and a cooperation model such as 28+2, with NATO countries, Finland and Sweden. Such a meeting is coming to Warsaw next summer, and I would also attach great importance to the fact that this security situation in the Baltic Sea is being addressed there and that Finland and Sweden will be involved and involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u82	I would ask those representatives who wish to ask further questions to come forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u83	Madam President! Is the Finnish Government now going to take any initiative in the fact that this military tension between Russia and the West now seems to be intensifying right here in our neighbourhood? Can Finland now take the initiative?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u84	Madam President! Finland is constantly active in international fora — the UN, the EU, partner and NATO partner — as well as bilaterally. I have met Secretary of State Lavrov three times in about four and a half months. In the United States, I met President Obama's Special Security Policy Assistant, Susan Rice, and Deputy Secretary of State Blinken. And everywhere I took the message that for Finland, for the Nordic Region and for all, the best line and goal is that there is no increase in military or other tension in the Baltic Sea region, and in so far as there are such risks, we must be active in all these fora both to the east and to the west. This is a clear line of government, and this is also a long line of Finnish foreign and security policy, which must not depend on it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u85	Mr President! It is good that this rise in tension in the Baltic Sea is being discussed. It is partly due to the escalation of the international situation and partly to the development of weapons technology in this area. Of course NATO and the NATO countries will respond to this within their own framework, and practice their own activities on the basis of Article 5. But Minister Soini, you have become known as a tough EU critic, and now, however, when you look at the situation in Finland, the EU solidarity clause, which France used in connection with this terrorist attack, among other things, is one of the pillars of our security policy. How do you currently see the use of this EU security principle as a foreign minister? Should the EU solidarity clause be practiced in any way? Should we have more cooperation with the EU countries in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u86	Madam President! I did notice quite a lot of other EU criticism in this Chamber during this Question Time. But, Mr Haavisto, you are quite right that this aid clause, which came up particularly after this terrorist attack in Paris, is very significant. It is quite clear that, immediately after that attack, at the meeting of the Defence Ministers, the French Minister for Defence asked everyone for help and all EU countries undertook to help — including Finland. Now we are negotiating what we can do to help: is it possible to repair UNIFIL, possibly something? So this one's alive all the time. Of course there is international cooperation: Finland must be there to help when it is time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u87	Madam President! This situation in the Baltic Sea region is truly worrying. There are entirely new elements in it, with both sides, the West and Russia, increasing their troops and armed forces. This really doesn't look good. In this situation, it would be very important for more signals to emerge that Finland and Sweden are now strongly increasing cooperation. It is known that these negotiations are under way and that efforts are being made to establish a common defence policy, but this should be a lot quicker to get ahead in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u88	Madam President! The Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is absolutely right, and it is for this reason that cooperation between Finland and Sweden will also be strongly promoted there at EU level. Last Friday we had a joint meeting of defence ministers and foreign ministers in Europe, and I also met with the Swedish Minister of Defence, Mr Hultqvist. It is quite clear that this is also the way in which Finland develops our performance, cooperates, and it is also a long-term line of great consensus, which I understand will help Finland to ensure its own security, but also contribute to stability through cooperation in this area, which is not part of the military alliances.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u89	There's still time to take one more question and answer. Congressman Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u90	Värderade fru talman! Last week was a dark week for Åland. First, the Orkla Group announced that it would warn all its employees at the Taffel chips factory about the negotiations and consider transferring this Finnish national treasure to Sweden or Latvia. The following day the Government announced that the support decided by Parliament for wind power production in Åland will not be implemented. By 149 to 35 votes in March last year, Parliament adopted a law laying down the conditions for wind power support in Åland. Det rådde då en bred enighet om att stödet är till fördel för både Åland och Finland. Eleven months later, however, the government unilaterally announces that the law does not apply and violates the political agreement between the State and the Province of Åland. The disappointment in Åland is great. I ask, Prime Minister Sipilä: how has the government thought about rebuilding trust between Åland and Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u91	Madam President! This feed-in tariff for wind power is closing on 1 January 2017 and it is no longer possible to apply for this system. The province has indicated that compliance with the limit has not been possible, and here too is the tightness of our budget on this issue. We have been constantly interacting with each other about this. For my part, I can assure you that I will do everything in my power to build cooperation. Here I can tell you that I have already agreed to come to Åland on 8 March, and then we will also be able to discuss new positive issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u92	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u93	Madam President! Serious crimes also cause moral indignation in Finns quite understandably. It is also understandable that when there are many people in need and we have to choose who we can help in Finland anyway, people who bring in insecurity cannot be at the top of the line. However, I do not support the adoption of the draft law contained in the initiative, because the basic idea of the initiative seems to be already in place in the current legislation. However, I appreciate the fact that the citizens' initiative has been brought back to Parliament. The Greens depart from zero tolerance in terms of violence and sexual self-determination. My personal opinion is that rapes in Finland, for example, are often subject to far too light penalties. Aggravated crimes must also be taken into account as grounds for expulsion. Foreign law already allows for the expulsion of foreigners even less serious crimes As far as asylum recipients are concerned, the law allows a review and termination of a person's status in the event of a criminal offence. This applies not only to refugees but also to those in a position of protection or humanitarian protection. If the status is abolished and circumstances change in the country of origin, the person can therefore also be deported. For example, last year Finland decided to expel 90 foreigners for crimes. More proposals were made for expulsion. The relevant regulation varies according to the grounds on which the residence permit was issued. Practical challenges often include, for example, the confused situation in the country of destination or the lack of a return agreement between states. However, one thing must be kept in mind: Finland is the rule of law and Finland is a civilized country. In Finland, we do not torture people or condemn them to death under any circumstances. It is therefore logical and right that we do not send people from Finland to conditions that we know will lead to death and torture somewhere else. This limits who can be deported and where. For the same reason, the expulsion vending machines flashed in the citizens' initiative are problematic. The Greens are also prepared to take the extension of the residence permit or possible expulsion of a person who has committed a serious crime in Finland for automatic consideration whenever he is released. However, consideration must always be based on an individual examination of the need for protection. The idea of an expulsion vending machine carries the risk that the situation will not be considered accurately enough. Not only is it not right in a civilised state, but it can also lead to situations that are contrary to international law. However, it is in the interests of a small Finland that international agreements are generally respected in the world. In any case, we should try to speed up the proceedings, whether in the case of expulsion or asylum. In order to do so, the authorities need sufficient resources. Now many have the impression that people cannot be deported if necessary. As a result, more than 54,000 people have probably signed this citizens' initiative. It may be necessary to clarify our laws not only for reasons of content but also because the content of the laws would be more understandable to Finns. Madam President! A citizen's initiative does not define a foreigner. So the bill would apply to all foreigners. However, I am interpreting the initiative and the public debate that has taken place, mainly with regard to asylum seekers. The crimes suspected of being committed by asylum seekers have been high on the public agenda. From the legislator’s point of view, every crime must be condemned, some particularly reprehensible and every crime is too much. However, it is good to remember that as terrible crimes as rapes, for example, are, only a small proportion of asylum seekers and refugees commit crimes. The people who commit crime black out the reputation of the vast majority who have come here with great intentions. The condemnation of the whole group for perpetrators is always unambiguously wrong. It is in the interests of asylum seekers that crimes are handled fairly and rigorously and that, under certain conditions, the perpetrators can be turned or deported. Often, refugees’ own communities are among the most prominent to judge criminals. They know that they are all easily labeled if crimes are committed. The threat of punishment is an important and necessary instrument for preventing crime. But we should also use other means to reduce and prevent crime. That is also what we will do if we find that a group of people in the general population commits crimes more easily than others. For each group, it is appropriate to ask what specific measures we can take to keep them on a narrow path. Finally, I would like to say that crimes in Finland are judged by the courts, not by the national parliaments or by the online services. There is neither one nor two times when, for example, suspicions of crimes committed by asylum seekers have been voiced in the media, which have subsequently proved completely unfounded. The person is guilty only after the guilt has been proven. Judgments, proselytizing and expulsion are already in place. In Finland, their imposition must continue to be based on legal principles and international agreements.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u94	Mr President! In the previous speech, Mrs Parviainen pointed out these possibilities of expulsion from the current law, so I will not go into any more of them, but I will refrain from speculating on the motives of the signatories to these citizens' initiatives. This is an important issue to deal with, and I will put it first in the context that it is a common phenomenon that immigrants commit crimes more often than the population in proportion to their number. In other European countries than Finland alone, this is the case. For years, I myself have been carrying out expulsion investigations and missions with expulsion and refusal of entry in the police, and so I know this process thoroughly. I was delighted when we already received an entry in the government programme in the spring that the process of expulsion from the country of foreign offenders will be speeded up. After all, the expulsion process itself is a very multi-stage process, and I am not going to go into the details here, but I note that the biggest delay in the process is in the so-called final phase, namely that the right to appeal and the bans on the enforcement of expulsion decisions are delaying the actual removal from the country. I can tell you that when the police start the expulsion process, the case is, in principle, very strong. And I would also like to mention that these things existed while I was in them — of course now — as many as scientists could prepare and do. I mean, let's not go on a light test of whether this person could be converted or deported. Therefore, in order to speed up this process, I would stress the urgent need to enable the implementation of expulsion decisions even if a person complains. I am primarily in favour of speeding up the process of dealing with complaints in the judicial system — and preferably in such a way that the solution at administrative level is the highest level of complaint in practice. Finally, I would like to remind you that the expulsion of criminals involves the imposition of an entry ban. And to a large extent, depending on the crime, the length of the ban varies between 5, 10, 15 years or so far. And for years, the problem has been this violation of the entry ban. Foreigners even violate the entry ban several times a month. In Finland, a violation of an entry ban results in a maximum fine. According to the examples in the Nordic countries — and 8.12. The government's asylum policy action programme also mentions this — an attempt to impose the maximum penalty for this non-entry ban. And then I see that, at the risk of imprisonment and in line with the examples in the Nordic countries, there would still be a strong preventive effect on the punishment to be imposed on foreigners in their country of origin. Mr President! To this citizens' initiative: it itself has the right spirit, even though it was not entirely at the heart of the problem, which is what I see as a practical aspect of expulsions and missions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u95	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, we must express our thanks to the citizens' initiative makers, because this subject is very important and very much emotional as well as worrying among the citizens. In that sense, it is wonderful that you have brought this matter before Parliament. Parliament must be able to create laws that primarily contribute to the security of Finnish citizens. This citizens' initiative is necessary in order to keep Finland safe as it has been so far. First of all, crime against foreigners in Finland can be prevented. An important way is that only those in real need can be protected here. They have a good motivation to live by Finnish laws. Limiting the number of immigrants also means better integration opportunities. Mr President! As long as we continue with the bizarre interpretation of the Geneva and Dublin agreements, reckless immigration will not, unfortunately, end. The spirit of the Geneva Convention is to save the persecuted, such as the persecuted, who are being tortured or killed. The asylum procedure should not be about evacuating people in war zones thousands of kilometres away and leaving them there even if the conflict has been resolved. The current interpretation is irresponsible use of resources for the benefit of system abusers. As a by-product, we donate income streams to human smugglers and terrorists. Why is this so important? Last year, a total of 32476 people applied for international protection in Finland. The largest numbers of applicants came from Iraq, 20485, Afghanistan, 5214, and Somalia, 1981. Syria, although much is said about it, became only 877 people. Although this main role in the refugee debate is in Syria, from there it is not possible to reach Finland for some reason. If the decisions of the residence permit are examined without expired and inadmissible asylum applications, it appears that Finland has a very loose line in granting the residence permit. In 2015, the proportion of positive residence permit decisions was 60 per cent of all applications. So only 40 percent of the decisions were negative. These decisions are particularly favourable to those who come from the countries most populous. The percentage of positive asylum decisions received by Somalis was 97%. For the Iraqis, the corresponding figure was 85 % and for those from Afghanistan 72 %. In the other Nordic countries there is a much tighter line. In Sweden, the Iraqis received a positive solution in 58% of cases, with a figure of 38 in Denmark. Since last autumn it has been repeated in public, especially at the mouth of Home Secretary Orpo, that about 30 per cent of asylum seekers will receive a residence permit for Finland. The municipalities have been asked to prepare to receive 10,000 positive decisions. The real risk, therefore, is that the actual figures are well over 10,000. For comas yes, the forecast depends to a large extent on the number of applicants who make their applications voluntarily lapse. Last year alone, 2015, 3186 applications for Iraqis fell. This year the figure until now is 918. This will go a long way to determine how much more than 20,000 of these Iraqis will stay in Finland last year. In that sense, this preparation for 10,000 in municipalities may be too conservative an estimate. Mr President! The Government is abolishing the residence permit for humanitarian protection. This is a good example of the right direction. The conditions for residence permits for humanitarian protection are not laid down in European Union law, nor in the refugee agreement. This is Finland's own national solution. However, this will only solve the migration problem as a name. According to the home page of the Ministry of the Interior, very few residence permits have been issued on the basis of humanitarian protection. In 2013 and 2014, it has accounted for approximately 1% of the total number of beneficiaries of international protection. Mr President! Experts say there's no end to the migratory wave. Finland must independently change its interpretation of international agreements and close its borders. We in Parliament must also discuss the re-opening of these refugee agreements, the Geneva Conventions and others. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that I support the citizens' initiative to expel foreigners who have committed serious crimes. According to the Legal Institute, a man from the Middle East or North Africa is 16 times more likely to commit rape than the native population in Finnish. This figure is age-standardized. In Helsinki, all but one of the so-called bulldozers were of foreign origin both last year and the year before. Unfortunately, education and training are not the only way to solve this problem. In this situation, we show concern for all those living in Finland if we take firm, practical authority. It is not enough to say that something must not be done. A bad deed must have sufficient consequences. The credibility of the legislation and the strict line of action are of particular benefit to those immigrants who live in our country in a law-abiding manner. Indeed, it is not fun for anyone to hear about the crimes committed by their countrymen a few days ago. This kind of news isn't good for you. Now that we are in a tight line, we are not going down the same path as our western neighbour, Sweden, which suffers from high crime rates. Finland can remain a Finnish country where the native population and immigrants thrive and live together according to the law. Mr President! According to the Finnish Foreign Act, a foreigner can already be deported if a criminal offence is committed for at least one year or if the crime is repeated. This citizens' initiative would make expulsion not only an option but also a starting practice. In addition, efforts must be made to ensure that expulsions are put into practice and that the power of change is not watered down by excessively strict interpretations of dangerous areas. It is very good that the Foreign Minister is pushing this forward. In the case of the citizens' initiative, there is also a tendency to suggest, among other things, the expulsion of those responsible for serious crimes. That's easy to get rid of. Let's change the word "serious" to the word "honor," and we'll have a list of those who committed the most serious crimes. In addition, consideration can be given to whether it would be advisable to include in the legislation people who often renew minor crimes and who should also be deported. Mr President! To conclude, I would like to say that in a rapidly changing world, responsible decision-makers are rapidly updating the laws. As far as this citizens' initiative is concerned, it is only a matter of serious concern to citizens about their own security. It cannot be that Members of Parliament do not recognise this genuine concern and concern. This is a legislative problem. This initiative should not be rejected because of formalities, but should be dealt with in order to tighten up the legislation. I therefore support this citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u96	The maximum length of the speeches shall be 10 minutes. — Representative Immonen next.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u97	Mr President! For several years now, Finnish prisons have been bulging about foreign prisoners. The number of foreign prisoners in Finnish prisons has already increased by more than 20 times since 1992 to this day. The number of foreign prisoners is threatening to increase in the future, because we know that the crisis of asylum seekers that is shaking Europe is bringing much more than just people seeking protection to our country. It is not in the interests of Finnish taxpayers to unduly preserve and support foreign criminal material by the Finnish state if they can alternatively be expelled from Finland. Mr President! The problems with the expulsion of foreigners who have committed crimes today are largely related to the over-interpretation of the powers conferred on administrative courts and the authorities which take expulsion decisions as to whether or not a foreigner can be deported back to his or her country of origin if certain conditions are met. And too often administrative rights overturn decisions to expel criminals from foreign countries. Moreover, the problem is that some of the exiles will have to be brought back and released in Finland if their country of origin refuses to accept them. According to Article 149 of the Aliens Act, a foreigner may be expelled from the country, for example, who has been found guilty of a crime for which a maximum sentence of at least 1 year has been imposed, or who has been found guilty of repeated crimes. The citizens' initiative also states that immigrants who have committed serious crimes should be able to be expelled from Finland. However, I understand what this citizens' initiative has been seeking to pursue. In order to achieve the real will and spirit of the citizens' initiative, one good way to change the law would be to replace the current wording of the law with the wording'repellent'. In this case, the Finnish Immigration Service, the administrative courts and the authorities making expulsion decisions would no longer have any discretion and interpretation in this matter. This would be a small but significant change to the law, and it would also be more in line with the general sense of justice of the people. On the other hand, if expulsion is impossible because no country agrees to accept a person to be deported, he should be kept in custody until expulsion is possible. It would also make sense that a temporary residence permit should not be granted at all to a person who has been ordered to be deported under Article 149 of the Aliens Act, but that such person should be retained until such time as removal can be carried out. Mr President! The spirit of the citizens' initiative now before us is good and entirely right. It is not the role of the Finnish State to act as a haven for foreign criminals, but, above all, as a champion of the interests of Finnish citizens in an increasingly unstable world. I would therefore like to encourage the government to take account of the will of the people of this citizens' initiative when the government also looks at this point in foreign law and to take steps to rationalise the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u98	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are debating the citizens' initiative once again. This time the subject is the expulsion of foreign offenders. Perhaps the most important message about this initiative is that it is a pretty strong time frame for 2015 and 2016 for Finland and Europe. Some 54,000 Finns have experienced the fear that the crimes of asylum seekers or persons who have moved to our country may endanger their basic safety. That is the kind of message that must be taken seriously across party boundaries and government and opposition boundaries for all of us in this House. It is difficult to take a stand on this initiative that perhaps the authors of this initiative have not worked out and thought back to the very end when they have taken this initiative. There's a lot of that kind of shape-absorbing stuff around here. I cannot say that this is unacceptable because there are small formal exceptions. This is a very incomplete and unclear initiative, and in some cases even a rather confusing one. Among other things, the definition of the term 'foreign' has been omitted from this point of view and there is sometimes talk of serious crimes and of foreigners who have committed a crime in general. I believe that these factors alone will lead to the unacceptable adoption of this initiative as it stands. There is a lot of discussion about how the return of asylum seekers who come to Finland, who do not have the right to asylum under our foreign law and international treaties that bind us and our constitution, should be organised and how people who have committed crimes in Finland can get out of the country. I myself would like to see legislation being considered in the future that, if the person's country of origin is still dangerous and the person can experience persecution there, but if there is a neighbouring country nearby, if the country A from which the person originates is dangerous, then if the neighbouring country B or neighbouring country C is one where this person is not persecuted, could he then be returned to that country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u102	Mr President! I am a little surprised at Mr Kurvise's way of moving the debate to the point that citizens' initiatives are not necessary, because that is precisely what will increase democracy, that citizens will be able to deal with issues in this House that Parliament does not want to deal with. I myself believe that if this is to be developed, why not move directly, if not directly, to a referendum, for example, according to the Swiss model. That would be good for me, too. But I cannot help but be surprised, Mr Kurvinen, why in Finland a person guilty of a crime should not be deported to a country where he feels threatened. Note that they are not all authentically facts. Should a criminal be allowed to live in Finland despite the fact that he is repeatedly guilty of assault or rape, for example, of children or women? This is what it is all about, that people want security and that we send such a message, that on the ground in a country like this: if you do this here, you will go where you came from, no matter what fate lies there. Yes, there is too much loose legislation in Finland if we protect criminals more than the victims.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u103	Mr President! I would like to make it clear to Mr Niiko that it would be good for me if a person could not be deported to his country of origin, he would be returned to a neighbouring country of origin where he is not threatened by the death penalty or torture. But we must ask Mr Niiko: even now, when we have people in reception centres who have been tortured with work machines, they have been cut off from limbs, should such people be sent back to the countries of origin to experience this treatment? Is it the Finnish society that we are trying to defend here, and the value base that we are trying to defend?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u104	Mr President! If a person commits a serious crime, such a person must of course be removed from the country. There is no reason that he may be persecuted elsewhere. For example, how will this be done if you have come from Iraq and are wanted to be deported or transferred to Iran? Do you think that fate is easier there? It has its own legislation, its own culture and it treats criminals according to their law. I do not think that the threat will go away by moving someone to the neighbouring country, and secondly, they will not accept these. If we do not find any other compromise, could it then be agreed, as Mr Immonen well said, that they will not be released if they cannot return to that country? They'll sit here for so long in prison until they find the safe place where they can be released. But even on the street, they should not be released. We cannot compromise the safety of our children and our citizens by giving their new crimes to offenders and by practically not imposing any kind of punishment. That is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u105	Madam President! Returning Mr Kurvise to another country, even if in a neighbouring country: there happens to be a small problem that returns work in such a way that there must also be someone there to receive. You can't just dump in a country x. That's the problem. Why would these neighbouring countries accept someone they feel threatened by? To Mr Niiko: I understand the concern behind you in itself, but the idea that we should go back anywhere sounds to me, as I said in my speech, contrary to the principle of a civilised state. As I said, in Finland we do not condemn people to death. We do not practice torture in Finland. Why, then, would we send people to death or torture? I would also like to ask you when you talked about the fact that when you are released from prison, you must not be allowed to renew your crimes, whether you think this applies also to Finns who have committed crimes. How do we view them? Is it apparent from this that you are in favour of the death penalty?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u106	Mr President! Representative Niikko repeatedly speaks of the need to act in the country as a country. But what is more a country's way than our constitution, our legal system, our way of treating people fairly: if they commit crimes, they are being accused in the judiciary and so on. Why this contempt for Finnish law and the Finnish Constitution? I think it is very 'non-country'.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u107	Mr President! Now this conversation is beginning to get sidetracked. We certainly do not have the biggest problem of not getting these people back. That is certainly not the main problem, but the main problem is that we do not want to return those who have not received a sufficiently large sentence. This is at the heart of the citizens' initiative, that if the sentence is any person who does not enjoy citizenship in Finland, he will be returned or removed from the country. As far as the crimes committed by Finns are concerned, of course, this was discussed during the last period, that our legislation is too loose if we do not receive a sentence for repeated serious crimes. Usually those sentences are loose in my head. As a result, during the last period, I made a bill, for example, in which those guilty of serious crimes would not automatically receive any kind of relaxation. The first-time clause is old-fashioned in modern society and can be started from there. Laws will then be tightened against all those living in Finland in these gross crimes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u108	I would remind the honourable Members that we are now talking about this content of the citizens' initiative. There are a few more answers that have been asked for.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u109	Mr President! Mrs Parviainen made a good point, in my opinion, that we already have the means in the legislation to expel offenders. I would have just brought one experience to this point raised by Mr Niikko, that it is easy to banish. During my ministry, I was dealing with an issue such as this, where the person who committed a homicide in Finland was wanted to be returned and tried to return, and this was a country with the death penalty. At that time the relevant authorities of this country raised this point that it is the likely fate of this person. What do we do then? We also have a certain responsibility if, in principle and according to our ideology, we are opponents of the death penalty. If every human life is valuable despite even having committed a crime, we believe, for example, in the possibility of man’s healing, as we do from our own point of view, that these things must also be taken into account here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u110	Madam President! Personally, I would like to believe that the 54,000 signatories to this citizens' initiative are not — hopefully — on the Niiko lines. As a matter of principle,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u111	Mr President! I can assure you that I will no longer respond to this — there is no need to be hasty. I would now like to brighten up a number of representatives here, as I meant. We can believe anything: we can believe that the neighbours of the country A, which is dangerous to a person, would not want to conclude such a return agreement. But now I don't want to talk about this kind of faith, but I'm giving a mandate to our government, as it were, to negotiate with some of these neighbouring countries even in the Middle East and see if that's possible. I agree with Mr Niiko that such detention, the restriction of his freedom, if he is dangerous, should be clarified. Apparently there's a little bit of this kind of system in Norway. And I think that we are with Mr Niko in the same way, but I am trying to find ways of carrying out these returns and expulsions in accordance with our constitution and in accordance with the human rights treaties that bind us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u112	One last comment, representatives Elo, Häkkänen and Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u113	Madam President! I welcome this debate. Why? Because the citizens' initiative has brought a matter of undisputed interest and emotion to Parliament for discussion and discussion. Let me take one example of what I think is the problem and what we need to think about. In Germany, in the small village of Sankt Johann, it has now been discovered that in refugee accommodation there is an Isis leader who has been proven to have committed torture in his own country, committed death sentences and committed acts which are totally unacceptable. And then the question arises whether such a person will be allowed to stay in Germany, sentenced to prison, or deported. These are the difficult questions we need to ask. However, he has done the things we are all opposed to here. It is therefore very important that this citizens' initiative should be brought here for discussion and properly dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u114	Madam President! Yes, this is probably one of the biggest concerns of our citizens in the spring. Although the figures do not necessarily refer to the huge numbers of crime statistics, this is a concern and also a moral one of Parliament's top questions about how to deal with this issue. At the same time, it should be possible to remember that Finland adheres to every fair trial of the Constitution, to certain principles in the criminal justice system, i.e. we ourselves are not actually committing acts relating to torture or the death penalty. On the other hand, on the other hand, we need to step up the return system so that people who have committed serious crimes can be returned as effectively as possible. The question here is how to find out as effectively as possible whether a person in his own country is actually threatened by this kind of threat. This will be the big question for probably thousands of people at some point.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u115	Mr President! Let us rephrase this, Mr Heinonen. There is a citizens' initiative here on the expulsion of foreigners who have committed a crime. I am a representative of the Finnish Parliament and represent the Finnish people and the interests of the Finnish citizens. On this basis, I think it is quite shameful to start washing your hands away from a citizens' initiative that you do not even want to support, Mr Heinonen. The question is that if the refund system is improved, we can have better results. After all, Germany is about to change the laws in such a way that if even officials are threatened there, then they are ready to be expelled from the country. There will be very strict legislation, at least according to the press reports I have read. This is the direction in which Europe as a whole is moving. Will we stay in this kind of softer line in Finland in the sense that we dare not change any laws?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u116	Mr Elomaa and then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u117	Mr President! Mr Kurvinen raised the need for a citizens' initiative, and that is where I disagree with him. He argued that the citizens' initiative was necessary, and he was right to do so. It is a new way for citizens to come forward and raise issues. It's democracy. It is a good thing that these citizens' initiatives are dealt with properly here in Parliament. This citizens' initiative in question is indeed necessary and, to a large extent, to be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u118	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u124	Next up, Minister Orphan, five minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u125	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. I wanted to listen to this debate because it is an institution called the Citizens' Initiative. Its first forum will then be this Chamber, which will hold a referral debate. As far as the government is concerned, there may be legislative initiatives, but above all, I believe that this debate is essential, in which this initiative has also shown its importance — a topical issue and a major issue for the citizens. I think there are two reasons why this initiative is here. The first is that our current practices seem to be very much contrary to common sense in Finland, i.e. if you commit crimes, it does not have any effect — direct effect, impressive effect — on the decision on asylum, or, on the other hand, it does not have as much effect as it would like to see those who commit the crimes expelled from the country. On the other hand, this initiative reflects citizens' concerns about public security. It is pointless for us to run away from the fact that the Finns feel that their security situation has deteriorated as a result of large-scale immigration. That is why this initiative must be taken seriously, and that is why the government must play its part, regardless of how this initiative is progressing in the parliamentary process itself. We must start from the fact that the authorities and the government — still the police, border authorities and immigration authorities — must comply with the law and international agreements to which Finland is committed. In this whole environment, we are bound by international agreements, EU legislation, domestic legislation. This is the frame we're working on. If and when we want to — constantly making changes — we need to assess what is in the hands of the Finnish Government: our national legislation, from which we have already recorded in the Government Programme, that we are going to tighten it up or speed up the removal of those responsible for serious crimes. This thing is on the move. In the context of the Government's action programme on asylum policy, this law has been rushed so that — it is a difficult project — we are trying to have it before the 17 parliaments in the early part of the year, and I promise to see if it is possible to speed it up. Another forum that I believe can influence our environment — and I believe that the President of the Republic also meant it — is the European Union. The European Union is creating our regulatory environment, our operating environment, to such an extent that, in this changed world situation too, the European Union must reflect on this legislative package of asylum and immigration policies and also be prepared to carry out the reforms that are necessary. We are reforming the Dublin system. It has its own problem, but I think that the title says that we need to reform our asylum system in Europe. It's not working right now. We need to think about our European legislation, which defines the processes for dealing with issues when we are faced with the fact that the number of asylum seekers in Europe and Finland is many times higher. Well, I'm still going back to my country. What we can and have done is that if an asylum seeker commits crimes in Finland, it will, in any case, have an effect so that we can take and take such a person into consideration quickly, so to speak, on the basis of a pile or at the centre, especially if the application is manifestly unfounded, so that a solution can be quickly obtained. If these criteria for international protection are not met, which means that only a serious crime can have the effect of being expelled, if there are these lower protection needs, secondary protection or humanitarian protection, these crimes will have an immediate effect and can then be put into practice. So this is what we can do. Then we have this whole package of public security in which we work. I would like to point out — also to Mr Niiko — that the government parties have jointly drawn up a programme in paragraph 80, which contains a lot of questions relating to public security, issues relating to these matters, and the government is certainly working together all the time. Finally, if the President allows me, I would like to say a few more words about these figures, which have been so much on the table today for one reason or another. So how many people are likely to come to Finland for asylum? Firstly, we can only know the probability, because today and from now on, in the coming weeks, in the months, we will be dealing with the asylum applications of the large number of asylum seekers who have arrived in Finland since last autumn. Since then, we have tightened the criteria by the government, but above all when the Finnish Immigration Service has carried out these security studies in Somalia, Afghanistan, Iraq, they have in practice tightened our criteria. We will not really see how they will work in the coming weeks, in the months to come, with decision-making. And if we look at today's percentages, we are in a situation of 24.5% positive decisions, 2324 negative decisions, 1500 unjustified decisions, i.e. mainly Dublin cases 1571 and 4100. If only the negatives and the positives are added together, then large percentages can be obtained for the positives. If we look at the whole amount, the percentage is 24 positive. These figures can be rotated, you can find different truths in them, but the truth is that the final figures on how many people in Finland get asylum are seen when these are individually processed. The criteria have become stricter, and I do not sign that we have much more looser criteria than in other Nordic countries or Europe. But these are things that we have said among the governments that we are following them, that we are constantly comparing Finnish immigration policy and its criteria and policies with different countries, especially the other Nordic countries, and we have decided to keep our policies and criteria at this level. So I hope to be patient with this percentage debate. As far as this citizens' initiative is concerned, I would like to reiterate that I understand the need for it precisely from the point of view that people are concerned about public security and that, in practice, there are features contrary to common sense, but we are constantly correcting them. That's why we've been chosen here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u126	I think it's time to go to the debatt here, so let's open it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u127	Mr President! Of course, when people come here for security and many have a legitimate reason for it, when a person who has come here for security commits a crime, it is quite difficult to understand when security has come here. In that sense, you understand that when it comes to the sense of security, these things are spoken to the citizens. But I believe that what has been done in immigration policy and what has been possible under these circumstances has been very consistently managed. The Government's policies under the leadership of the Minister for the Interior have been very clear. We have followed the development of the Nordic countries, and we have consistently taken responsibility for the situation where we are, and I hope that this will continue to be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u128	Madam President! I have always welcomed the fact that the Minister for the Interior has said directly that probably two thirds, perhaps even more of these asylum seekers, are, so to speak, unfounded. Of course, it means that this year it will also give the government a rather heavy responsibility for results, if that is what it can be said. People then expect that what the Minister for the Interior, and many others of course, has said publicly in this regard, will also be implemented. I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a further question in this regard. When the situation in Syria has recently been escalated — around 50,000 people are waiting on the Turkish-Syrian border to enter Turkey, these people have clearly fled persecution but are still there — I would like to ask how Finland is prepared for the increasing Syrian war to increase the flow of asylum seekers to Finland, bearing in mind that, unfortunately, even criminal material comes along with this stream.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u129	Mr President! First of all, thank you to the Minister for a very well-founded speech. But if we go back to this citizens' initiative itself, we already have a very broad legal mandate for how to banish these people who have committed crimes here. I believe that this greater problem is linked specifically to this process of expulsion, and the Minister pointed out that in what way this process of expulsion could be stepped up when, as I recall, this process itself lasts for an average of three years. What can we do to speed this up? That is why I would have asked the Minister to open up a little more of this specificity, what is being done there. I understand that the Ministry of Justice is becoming some new openings to this, but we should go through this, because it would certainly already give the public the confidence that these processes, when we go, will be examined quickly and then any decisions will be taken as to whether or not to expel them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u130	A few more replies, and then the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u131	Mr President! Thank you for the Minister's speech, which raised this somewhat broader framework, which the European Union is doing. Of course, the most important thing is that we can put an end to the crises there in the crisis area, in Syria, in Somalia, and that is something we can contribute to. The second is that we can calm down the situation in these transit countries: we support Turkey and we are trying to bring about a situation in Libya where Libya would no longer be such a transit country. But then attention will be paid to these first recipient countries in Europe, Greece and Italy, and I noticed that the Commission had also hardened Greece to make fingerprinting, identification of persons there even more effective. My question is: how much can we, within the framework of the European Union, increase this efficiency of the first host country in these cases, so that people do not come through without being identified? Then, of course, we would be able to catch war criminals and other criminals there already and make this European system work sensibly. Now, in a way, people come here without even identifying them here in the north.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u132	Mr President! The Minister promised to streamline and speed up these expulsions. I have offered a concrete proposal to the Minister for Justice in the past, and now I am renewing my offer to the Minister for the Interior. In the current system, the police with official responsibility make a proposal to the Finnish Immigration Service to expel a foreigner who has committed a crime. The Finnish Immigration Service, under official responsibility, makes a decision on expulsion. After that, this foreigner has the right to appeal the Finnish Immigration Service's decision to the Administrative Court, as is the case. But after that, there is still the possibility of reaching the Supreme Administrative Court by way of an appeal. This step is completely unnecessary. Although it is said that 'yes, but it requires a permit to appeal', it also calls for attention to be paid to the matter at the Supreme Administrative Court and takes the time and energy of these judges. In other words, a ban on the right of appeal to move forward would now be a concrete and timely solution. The proposal could be submitted in a month's time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u133	Mr President! I believe that Mrs Elo has drawn attention to a very important issue in her speech, namely that this conflict and crisis in Syria is not yet over, namely that the number of people in need of protection and assistance is not falling, but that there is still a huge number of people in need of international protection. How are we prepared for this? How do we intend to ensure the need for international protection for these people? There has been a lot of discussion about the legal sense of Finnish citizens, and I have at least noticed that citizens often contact people precisely because they want to help women and children in distress, above all. The government is now going to propose, among other things, tightening the criteria for family reunification, which will therefore make it difficult for women and children in particular to be safe here. What is the Minister's view of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u134	Mr President! This is indeed the reality that peace has not arrived in that region and hardly ever will be, so the prevailing situation in Finland will continue, and although the government itself does the right things in principle, this is, could you say, painfully slow, and this citizens' initiative is actually a sign that the people want more effective measures. I would like to ask: what measures does the government intend to take to tighten up this situation and speed up this situation, for example, as Mr Zyskowicz has said?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u135	And then Mr Tolvanen and Mr Hongisto and then the Minister's speech, and then we will continue the debate. Now, Congressman Tolvanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u136	Mr President! I will return to this citizens' initiative. After all, the citizens' initiative is a valuable system that we have created here, and it must be respected, and these people who have taken this initiative have had concerns. I would like to thank the Minister for correcting the figures that have now been made public today, for getting the right probability figures. But I would also like to thank the Minister for taking measures under the Government Programme to remove the person who committed a serious or repeated crime and the person who endangers safety in society, the non-Finnish, non-Finnish citizen, from the country, that the government should present a proposal, and I would like to thank him for that. These are the processes I know in the Justice Department to speed up. That's great. But I would now like to ask you about these readmission agreements. Do you know — of course it is more a foreign minister’s task — that when there are certain countries which do not have a perpetrator, a convicted offender, agree to take it back, have these negotiations progressed with certain countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall of course try to give a reply if it comes to the chairman of the committee or the section president, always prioritising him as far as possible. On the other hand, if there are more requests from the same parliamentary group, I will try to give these requests the space in the order in which those requests were made. That is the principle I am trying to follow here. — Mr Hongisto, you have the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u138	Mr President! I will continue along the line used by Mr Tolvanen and I would like to thank the government, and in particular Minister Orpo, for having reacted so quickly and agilely to this problem of asylum seekers, that if a person seeking asylum is guilty of a wrongful act or even of a crime in Finland, this application will be taken from there, whether it is under the deck, in the middle or anywhere, for an accelerated treatment and will be examined quickly, and if there are so to speak, the person will be returned to the country from which he came to Finland. This works, I dare say, as a general principle that people thus see that Finland must comply with Finnish laws if they intend to have this matter properly dealt with in Finland in general. The government has done an excellent job. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u139	Now, Minister Orphan. How about a couple of minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u140	Mr President! Thank you. Perhaps some of the questions have already been sidelined from the citizens' initiative, but in any case I will answer as much as I can. So once again: this is not my figure, about two thirds, it is an assessment by the Finnish Immigration Service of how decisions have been made before and how they estimate that they will be in the future. And, as I said, what this will be, we will see when applications are individually processed. The situation in Syria is shocking. It is estimated that 600,000 people have been forced to leave their homes because of the bombings and the escalation of the war and are seeking Turkey, where there are already 2.5 million refugees in the camps, Lebanon and Jordan, together with more than 2 million. It is clear that the pressure is enormous for Europe. What is now being done is not so much to stare at domestic measures as at what Europe can do, solve crises and help people in the region of origin. Then there are three things: the Turkish agreement, the border control of Greece and perhaps also the look at the Macedonian border at the moment. With Turkey, the EU is negotiating a €3 billion support programme in return for Turkey's restrictions on the flow of refugees to Greece. There has also been talk about the use of NATO forces, but Finland is not involved in that debate. Greece is forced to put this control, i.e. its registration, in order. Since Christmas, European players have been involved, Frontex forces, EASO experts, and it is being put in good shape. Similarly, this third, to which I would like to draw attention and to which I should like to draw attention: the Macedonian border, where controls are significantly strengthened. This is the external Schengen border from a European perspective. This will mean that more and more people will remain in Greece, which will mean that the implementation of a programme of relocations within the European Union, which has already been decided, which has not been implemented, will be under real pressure. But still, Mr Zyskowicz's proposal is exactly what the legislative reform is seeking, and let us return to what our experts have done. Representative Andersson: moving forward in family reunification as defined in the Government Programme. The income criterion is the key element that the legislative reform will have. It is currently in the consultation process. That's where we're going back. On the readmission agreement, Mr President: Negotiations are now being conducted closely with Iraq, above all because it is the key. We are working directly bilaterally, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs—the Ministry of the Interior, but we are also working more and more through the European Union, because if the European Union is a negotiating partner and is negotiating, then the pressure will be much more intense and then we will be able to achieve uniform practices, and if a country already has a readmission agreement with Iraq, for example, then we could benefit from it, then we could obtain agreements so that these forced returns will also succeed. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u141	And we will continue with the replies for a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u142	Mr President! Interesting when you look at this citizens' initiative and its graphs, how these 54,000 names have come to this: these have been collected between 5.11.2014 and 5.5.2015 before this refugee crisis. I wonder how many signatures this would be if this were done today. But this well illustrates that this feeling of insecurity has increased significantly in Finland and that this country must not be a safe haven for criminals. But the message — as is the case with this citizens’ initiative — must also be clear to everyone else, including foreigners who come here, that there will be no crime here and that there can be no crime here. I personally hope that the Minister of the Interior will also be active in the number of policemen in this situation. That is our concern in the provinces that in everyday life the police do not appear, and it also contributes to this feeling of insecurity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u143	Mr President! Thanks must be given when there is a place for commendation, and the minister has certainly worked hard to correct these matters, and that is a good thing. For example, this immigration programme in paragraph 80 is a very good measure to get a look-alike rat into this activity. In addition, this speed up the expulsion of perpetrators of serious crimes is a very good measure. So I ask the Minister: will that be enough without this citizens' initiative? As you yourself mentioned, there must be a prison sentence of at least one year in order to be expelled if these conditions of asylum are met. And with regard to these percentages, which were mentioned, as you mentioned, Minister, 60% of them have had a positive decision. These lapses and the Dublin agreements, which were not dealt with at all, as you mentioned, were 5,600. After all, their process has not been completed. So now these figures, which I am talking about, are the decisions discussed on Migri's website. So there were 1500 negative decisions, as I mentioned.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u144	Well, why don't the minister answer this right now? One minute from the scene.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u145	Mr President! I'm gonna answer this because I'm gonna have to go somewhere else for a while. So it can also be assumed that there are many persons within the 4,000 who have lost their lives who knew that they would not have come for asylum, and that is why they have left. I do not deny what you have said, but my message is still that the final figures will not be known until these proceedings are concluded. The criteria have been tightened and everyone still gets individual treatment, which is not predictable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u146	Mr President! Just as Minister Orpo described quite well just now, the situation in Syria and its neighbouring areas is absolutely appalling at the moment. The European Union must have the common strength to try to calm the situation down by all means and to prevent the human catastrophe that has already taken place in those regions every day. There is a need for the European Union's common strength. But then again in these areas, as in Finland, a lot of people have come here who have been seeking asylum here, and as President Niinistö well said in his own speeches and statements, some of those people must have come because of a genuine need, some of them perhaps in the hope of a better life. But for these we need to create such a system where we can separate those who really need to be — and then the asylum procedures that lead to returns need to be handled in a firm and elegant way. I would like to thank Mr Zyskowicz for his excellent speech and analysis on how this should be done. In that speech he well outlined how this should be done: no unnecessary bureaucracy
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u147	Mr President! First of all, I would point out that when we talk about expulsion, there are practically many other foreigners than those who have arrived here as TP applicants alone. The Helsinki Police Department has, in practice, banished people from one part of the world and indeed from different backgrounds, motives and grounds. Then, again, referring to this desire for a citizens' initiative to have a expulsion decision on even less serious crimes, to which Mr Niikko also referred, I would like to say that this threat of expulsion under the legislation is a greater fear for a foreigner than the sentence of the crime itself. And this, too, as a practical experience.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u148	Mr President! Mr Orpo has just described very well the broad measures that the government is already taking in response to the concerns expressed by this citizens' initiative. Of course, there have now been unprecedented security crises in Europe and little in the world at the same time. The refugee crisis, terrorism and many others have also come to the minds of many Finns, and, at the same time, in Finland, citizens' concerns have been raised on issues of everyday security. It is now required that the government and Parliament turn all the stones on this issue, too, which can make the return of those responsible for these crimes more effective without violating certain international obligations. It would be good now for the government to turn all these stones together with other EU countries that are in the same mess as those responsible for serious crimes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u149	Mr President! I believe that this citizens' initiative is important and necessary and, above all, I think it is an emergency call for us to tighten up the Finnish criminal policy. When much has been said here that there may be human rights problems and so forth in moving this citizens' initiative forward on the basis of what has been demanded, then, on the other hand, if that is the case, it should be said at the same time that what we can do is what we can do. For example, we can tighten our first-time legislation. After all, the offender is on the other side today: in practice, half of his sentence is served if you are a first-time offender. And the first time in Finland can be again and again every three years. This would make these arguments against this citizens' initiative much more credible if, then, these, where blackmail can be done with certainty, were to be blackmailed. As far as human rights are concerned, today we have my own bill to ban circumcision under the age of 18. I hope that all
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u150	Mr President! Indeed, when we talk here about these expulsions and returns, and we have wanted a little wider shoulders to be taken care of at European level, with regard to the negotiation process of how these return agreements can then be concluded with different countries, but also with regard to the fact that, when these returns are made in a very concrete way — because everyone will also understand that the return of a person from Finland to any part of the world is not very cheap and requires resources from the police, for example — it would make sense for this to be viewed at European level on a slightly wider scale and, for example, by Frontex, then, centrally, these returns from across Europe will be made, as has been the intention now. I would like the government to take this forward on the EU tables in order to achieve a little better coordination of these returns than is currently the case and to have a common shoulder for this, which will then be able to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u151	Mr President! I would like to express my mild thanks to this Government's vision of asylum. It's positive. As far as this citizens' initiative is concerned, there must be some work to be done. It says here that they would be deported regardless of the length of the prison sentence. In this context, I would say that I think Mr Tavio has taken a good initiative: if a foreigner is sentenced to two years or more imprisonment, then expulsion would take place in the first phase of the current judicial process, which is an awful clear one. In other words, these complaints, which have been said here, are excessively long, and if we look at the state financial situation, this would save a considerable amount of money from the various courts. This is what I would have asked the Minister of the Interior. In my opinion, this is not the least of the government's plans.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u152	Mr President! Here, when Minister Orpo presented this range of government instruments, he also stressed the importance of tightening border controls in Greece and Macedonia as a means of reducing pressure on Europe. The only problem with this solution is that this pressure will increase in these neighbouring regions and in Turkey. And as has been said many times in this debate, the conditions in these camps are already very inhumane. In other words, this pressure on people to move forward to Europe will be maintained as long as these conditions are as weak as they are in these neighbouring areas. I would hope that both at Finland and at European level, when this debate on border control is being held, there will also be ways in which, for example, Finland and the EU want to contribute to improving these conditions in refugee camps, for example through UNHCR or the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u155	Three more replies have been requested, and there seems to be no more. - Here comes the fourth. — that is to say, Mr Elomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u156	Mr President! The Minister's speech highlighted the fact that the application of the offender's asylum seeker will be dealt with quickly, and that is a good thing. This citizens' initiative has arisen from the concern of the citizens for their own safety, so it must be taken very seriously and the expulsion law should be tightened up and clarified. Efforts to prevent crime must be stepped up. Refugees and asylum seekers in our country should also be provided with the necessary information on practices, rules, laws within which all our citizens are obliged to act. I think that information is already being given, and if the Minister were here, I would have asked him how it is happening in concrete terms at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u157	Mr President! This initiative is very welcome and must be taken up. This is a message from the people, and the will of the people in this Parliament is being carried out. Ville Tavio, a representative of the People's Republic of Finland, has taken a bill for an expulsion vending machine, i.e. if a foreigner commits a serious crime and a foreigner is sentenced to two years or longer in prison, he is also automatically ordered to be deported, i.e. a criminal sentence is first served and then the police are allowed to take a foreigner directly from prison to their country of origin. It was pointed out that the expulsion process is currently multi-step, but in the Tavio bill the process would be faster, more efficient and would bring savings. This is well suited to the spirit of the Government Programme and the spirit of this citizens' initiative, and this should be taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u158	Representatives Niikko and Zyskowicz, first Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u159	Mr President! This citizens' initiative is timely because we will certainly not be able to resolve this refugee crisis for a long time to come. It all depends on the direction Europe is taking in the common decisions on external border control. It is therefore important, at some point in time, for Finland to look at its own attitude towards international agreements if this is not to end in any other way. From this point of view, the citizens' initiative must be taken seriously. Mr President! I would have liked to have raised this concern about what the Finnish Immigration Service will become. After all, they have to comply with the existing laws and international agreements. However, we have, up to the Constitution and up to the precedents of the Supreme Administrative Court, examples of how they deal with their applications. They cannot be blamed for the extent to which people receive a positive or negative asylum decision. In this respect, the legislator has a key role to play. We must make clear legislation that is fair, especially to those who genuinely need to be in distress and security, but to others.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u160	My final reply, Mr Zyskowicz.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u161	Mr President! In his speech, Mr Andersson suggested that Finland and the European Union are focusing only on preventing asylum seekers from entering Europe through Turkey instead of focusing on helping conditions in Turkish refugee camps. Mr Andersson's argument is completely unfounded. The European Union and Finland, as a member of the European Union, are working precisely to improve the state of refugee camps in Turkey, to allow children to go to school, to provide adults with health care. The European Union has earmarked EUR 3 billion for this. The purpose of this is precisely to allow people to flee close to their country of origin, making it more possible to return there. For those who would like to seek asylum beyond Europe, it would be possible to do so and then they would be able to take legal routes instead of using these human smugglers for their lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u162	Mr President! It is clear that not enough has been done. All the time there are news pictures of what these conditions are like in the camps at the moment. And the efforts that have been made so far have clearly been at an inadequate level. In addition, I do not know what Mr Zyskowicz thinks of the measures and policies of the current Turkish regime, about Turkey, about how it treats a minority, a Kurdish minority, for example, and about the human rights violations that have been heard there. Would it not have been more reasonable for the EU to have sought to channel this money precisely through the UNHCR, the UN Organisation, rather than to enter into agreements with the current regime in Turkey, taking into account the human rights violations that this government is also linked to?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u163	Mr President! I am happy to admit that not enough has been done. Rarely enough has been done. But the European Union's cooperation with Turkey does not exclude cooperation with UNHCR and other refugee organisations. In my view, the European Union is directing part of its financial support for refugees in these camps through precisely these international refugee organisations and also through the UN refugee organisation. The way the Turkish Government views its own Kurdish minority and violates its human rights does not, in my view, justify in any way that we cannot and must not cooperate with Turkey in order to improve the status of refugees in Turkish refugee camps. And, as I said, at the same time, we must open up the possibility that those who want to apply for asylum in Europe can do so. And this, as has been said, also means looking at Finland's own refugee quota, as long as it reaches this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u164	We shall now proceed to the list of
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u165	Mr President! In addition to this citizens' initiative brought about by the centre that is now under discussion, as has already been mentioned here, for example, Mr Ville of the Finnish People's Party. Mr Tavio has put forward concrete solutions to deal with this situation. In 2014, when I was chairman of Peruvian Youth, we proposed the automatic expulsion of foreigners sentenced to prison sentences. The expulsion would take place immediately after the execution of the judgment if the conditions for expulsion laid down in the Foreign Act were met. We made different conditions at the time, depending on the existence, validity of the residence permit, and the proposal is still valid: If the residence permit has been valid for more than eight years, the offender may be deported if the offender is sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for violent or sexual offences, the application for social assistance on false grounds, the organisation of illegal entry or terrorism and its financing or training. If the residence permit has been valid for more than five years, the offender may be deported if he is sentenced to more than one year’s unconditional imprisonment or to more than six months’ imprisonment for several offences. Finally, if the residence permit has been valid for less than five years, the offender may be deported if he is sentenced to a conditional or unconditional prison sentence. These borders are not windy, not even from their own head, but are based on the already existing practice of some other EU countries. At the time, we felt that a clear definition of the conditions for the expulsion of criminals from foreign countries was precisely in the interests of ordinary immigrants and, of course, asylum seekers. Do foreigners who have served their prison sentences belong to Finland anymore? I don't think so. Since then, the people have been activated. Of course, as Mr Heinonen has pointed out here, if they had been activated at this stage, where the crisis is now, the number among these signatories could be even higher. So the people have spoken. The citizens' initiative of more than 50,000 names suggests that foreigners guilty of serious crimes should be deported despite the length of the prison sentence. Exceptions would only be made in cases where expulsion would be certain to violate international agreements. Of course, this 'certainty' is a condition which places a great deal of demands on the assessment of what is certain and what is not. In addition, citizens are calling for expulsions to be banned and their residence permits to be abolished immediately, i.e. without excessive bureaucracy or unnecessary delay. I warmly support this citizens' initiative. Even if the law could not necessarily be directly brought into line with the citizens' initiative, the signal it sends is the right signal and the bill could be formulated in such a way that it respects the will of the authors of this citizens' initiatives and the signatories who have collected their names. As a representative of Parliament, I therefore warmly and gladly support the active involvement of citizens in taking such initiatives. This is a very important channel to bring the debate here to us in Parliament and also to live decisions. Mr President! I expect the concerns of the citizens and the changed security policy environment to be taken into account when we discuss this in this Chamber. I must say that I was pleased to note that this is the way the Minister of the Interior, Mr Orpo, addressed this issue — note that this subject and this concern that these people have must be respected and something that the government wants to tackle in one way or another. Finally, I would like to comment on Mr Kurvise, who raised the criteria for granting asylum: Mr Kurvinen, it must be borne in mind that, in accordance with an operational programme approved by the Government, asylum is granted for a limited period of time and the security situation of the person's country of origin is regularly assessed. I would see that, when all this programme of measures is implemented, and the legislative proposals are already well on the way, this is quite sufficient in terms of definition, at least in this situation. It is only practical then that we should respond to what we in this Parliament have passed on to the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u166	Mr President! Just a few practical things when I've spent most of my life in criminal investigations. A few of these basic things that have not been mentioned here, which is why it is good to get foreign offenders out of the country as soon as possible, is, for example, that these who are convicted sittin' down, network effectively with international or foreign offenders. After the sentence has been executed, the sooner we get out of the country, the better. Of course, the alternative is that before the sentence begins, if it is possible to agree with the offender's country of origin, that he should carry out his sentence at home, always better. Let's save taxpayers' money. I am not going to interfere with the crimes committed by asylum seekers; there has been enough talk about them. From the point of view of criminal investigation: the sooner we get the perpetrators of serious crimes out of Finland, the better and the cheaper. One more comment about these asylum seekers — we were talking about these numbers — has obviously forgotten that if two thirds of the decisions may be inadmissible, it does not mean that this group will leave the country. After all, four-fifths come from countries with which there are no return agreements so that they stay here anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u167	Mr President! It is clear that this citizens' initiative reflects the sense of insecurity of the citizens and should be appreciated even if this citizens' initiative is not being passed on to the law as it is. But it is a pleasure to see that the government has taken action in accordance with the Government Programme, not only in tightening up these criteria but also in speeding up processes and these readmission agreements. That's the way it's supposed to be, good. I would also like to comment briefly on Mr Ruoho's statement on personal experiences. When I was involved in a criminal investigation, we had a large series of robberies, street robberies and serious robberies committed by non-Finnish citizens with foreign background. Whatever it is, we caught them, we got the main player out of Finland, and no matter what, these robberies stopped for the others. In other words, this will have a deterrent effect, a preventative effect on such a wider scale, not just on this person, but on social media it will spread very quickly that expulsion is possible, and that is what people are afraid of.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u168	Mr President! It is very good that this citizens' initiative has also come to Parliament to complement the government's immigration policy policies. This is a serious matter and it is worth noting that the citizens' initiative contains the principle that we do not accept serious crimes. There has already been mention of the bill taken by Mr Tavio from the mouth of Mr Huhtasaari and Mr Elo at the end of last year, calling for the immediate expulsion of a foreigner who has been sentenced for more than two years after the decision of the District Court. I think this is the right direction. It should be noted that a one-year sentence can also be expelled if necessary, or if repeated offences have been committed. There are other reasons. The only obstacle may be the situation identified in the citizens' initiative, with certainty, note. With certainty, we would be violating international agreements. I admit that not all those who have been sentenced to expulsion can be expelled because they are not accepted in their country of origin. The citizens' initiative has also been criticised. Only yesterday, Olli Koskipirtti, Director of the Finnish Immigration Service's performance area, says that he does not believe that the citizens' initiative will change anything, saying, among other things, that it does not define what serious crimes mean. What is a serious crime is what we define here in Parliament. The citizens' initiative is a proposal to start drafting legislation. I have already mentioned one definition. In gross crimes, you can't see the pros and cons of staying in the country. A two - year sentence is already telling us that this is a clearly more serious act. Mr President! Our biggest problem is bureaucracy. At the moment, expulsion is a long road, the machinery is far too heavy and, above all, expensive. We need to clarify our practices further and make changes to our legislation. In addition to cutting red tape, this creates faith in our judicial system and increases the sense of security for our citizens. These things should not be underestimated, but it is time to act.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u169	Mr President! I warmly support this citizens' initiative. The content of the initiative says that foreigners guilty of serious crimes would be deported despite the length of the prison sentence. I myself would be willing to go much further. Banishment should extend to all crimes, not just serious ones. The perpetrators should not only be deported but also the offenders. We need to send out a clear signal that it is not appropriate to come here and criminalise, and we should not, under any circumstances, be harassing these criminals. There are so many of them among those who have come since last summer. What we have seen so far is only the tip of the iceberg. There's gonna be a lot worse. Whoever doesn't understand or want to understand this is a blue-eyed fool. The figures are those who, in one way or another, benefit from asylum tourism. They obviously ignore all the suffering that increasing crime and insecurity mean, for example, for women and girls who have already had to change their routines on a daily basis because they are afraid, and they are genuinely and rightly afraid. An immediate expulsion would have a deterrent effect. In the current situation, we and our legislation are being flouted by these invaders. This cannot continue. If we continue, we will end up like Sweden. Sweden is the second most raped in the world, on average 16 times a day. If that figure is related to our population, it would mean about ten rapes per day. Who wants to do this? Women, children and men. In the autumn, a crisis unit for raped boys and men was opened in Sweden. Many Finns have opened their eyes to the fact that if we do not make rapid and significant blackmails into our legislation, Sweden's way will be our way. That's it. Mr President! Complaints against convictions are a right that should be reserved to Finns only. It must be removed from foreigners. The right of appeal means that these criminals will be able to prolong the process for years. Even lawyers benefit from it, and the Finnish taxpayer pays for the violins. And a Finnish, almost hotel-level prison, which is paid for by your Finnish taxpayer, is far too good a place for those who come here. Mr President! This citizens' initiative was launched in November 2014. Our situation is now substantially worse than it was a year and a half ago. Many Finns, especially mothers and fathers of teenage children, fear what spring and summer bring. Therefore, the expulsion of foreign offenders must be speeded up, as is the case with all other blackmails against immigrants. Today, Attorney General Lindström said that seven district courts will be closed. It wasn't long before the Minister of Justice was reprimanded by the RKP. However, these same parties welcome young men from the Middle East and Africa with open arms. Do you not see any contradiction in your actions? The government is forced to cut down and cut, because our already fragile economy is unduly burdened with the billion-dollar cost of asylum tourism. At the same time, military and prison fugitives, for example, are flooding in here, which are imposing a huge burden on these very district courts. According to the Institute of Legal Policy, certain citizenships rape 17 times more than the native Finns. This is a reminder to those whose basic answer is that Finns also rape. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u170	Mr President! I do not think there is any valuable behaviour to refer to all asylum seekers as if they were intruders, criminals. I believe that it is to support racist views and I do not think it is worthy of this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u171	Mr. Speaker! There are no racists here, but this is such a loophole in this country, that there is now — like a Trojan horse — such a crowd in this country. Where are those feminists now who say women's rights? The women are fighting, according to the Evening Messages. Against the fathers, and here, these asylum tourists, the old men, are sitting here to be patronized, chilled, fed. Is that what we want here?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u172	Mr President! The content of the citizens' initiative is open to interpretation. The initiative talks first of all about the expulsion of a foreigner who has committed a serious crime and then only about the expulsion of an immigrant who has committed the crime. Which one do you think we're talking about? If we want to banish those who have committed a crime at all, I believe that the expulsion referred to in the bill would apply to all minor acts other than those dealt with under the code of offence. Even higher speeds, such as endangering road safety, would be a reason to expel a person from the country. I am not prepared to lower the limit of expulsion quite this low. I believe that expulsion is justified and justified when a person is found guilty of a crime for which, for example, the minimum sentence to be imposed is one year of imprisonment or has repeatedly committed crimes. Such an act is no longer committed by chance and accident, but acts or actions require purposefulness, and in that case the author must understand that he is violating Finnish laws and regulations by his act. If and when it is the author’s will to accept the violation of our laws and the act is not minor, it shows a clear disregard for the laws and legal systems that support our society. The place of such a person is no longer in our society; it is justified to expel him from the country. Deportation would also serve as excellent warning examples, thus increasing the overall impact of the punishment. Mr President! The country is living by the laws and regulations of the country, or leaving the country, voluntarily or when escorted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u173	Mr President! Mr Hakkarainen’s speech was a speech of a folkman who comes directly from the heart and from the people’s conscience, and in that sense I appreciate that someone can speak with the right names, even though they may sometimes be misinterpreted. However, this starting point, from where Mr Hakkarainen started, for these rape cases, is reflected in this citizens' initiative. Here, of the five arguments, two deal specifically with these rape statistics and cases. In that sense, this is a sensitive subject, but it is real time today. People are worried about whether it's safe to walk down the street anymore. It is true when spring and summer come, as Mr Hakkarainen said, how we will be able to protect our children, our girls and our women on that street if the law is not a deterrent to those who do not respect such legislation. People from different cultures must understand that in a country, as Mr Hongisto said, in a country like that or out of the country. This is the role of the legislator, to create security for its citizens and to tell those who are not Finnish citizens that it is a practice in this country that if you do not comply with these laws you must leave this country. We must remember that, above all, as legislators, I myself am responsible to my constituents and to the citizens of this country. The secondary issue is the way in which the perpetrators are dealt with in another country. It's not my decision-making power. I am concerned about my own citizens, as every Member of Parliament should. Mr President! One more point of view quickly is that the spirit and message of the citizens' initiative are very clear, even if they do not meet the direct legal criteria. That message is clear. Tighten the laws, decision-makers, so that we can experience security in this country. We must put such legislation in place so that it sends a message to all offenders that you are not welcome in Finland. I do not think that foreigners are being oppressed in any way. This specifically protects foreigners living in Finland from being branded as criminals,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u174	Mr President! Now that Mr Hakkarainen, for example, has used the kind of speeches that the huge influx of invaders and all that else, I would like to remind you that last year, for example, some 32,000 asylum seekers arrived in Finland and about 0.08% of them are suspected of having been raped, for example. Of course, one case is always too much, and I am sure none of us will disagree with that, but I would like this debate to be kept that way, as I requested in my previous speech, that we should not stigmatise an entire group of people because some of the people in that group have committed crimes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u175	Mr President! On average, the expulsion process takes up to three years, at least normally two years. According to Article 149 of the Aliens Act, expulsion is, of course, subject to the conditions of the criminal offence itself or to repeated offences and to total consideration. This overall consideration includes, among other things, family ties. As the process of expulsion is prolonged, these bonds often appear in such a way that even the whole expulsion is cancelled. In conclusion, however, I would like to thank the citizens' initiatives themselves. That spirit of initiative has been taken seriously here among our representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u176	Mr President! I would just like to say to Mrs Parviainen that we are discussing these crimes committed by immigrants here for the purpose of having a citizens' initiative on it. That in that sense we cannot talk about certain other crimes, but that it is the citizens' wish that we are having this debate. I would like to remind you that this is not just a relapse: for example, the highly respected professor of criminal law, Emerita Terttu Utriainen, mentioned last autumn that immigrants — not asylum seekers but immigrants — are overrepresented in rape offences. My personal opinion, like many other Finns, is that when you come to Finland, you follow the rules. If you do not respect our rules, commit serious crimes, or repeatedly commit crimes, then you will treat us with contempt. You cannot expect us to welcome you in society, perhaps taxing your health care or so. I think that is quite natural: please go away — since you are not happy here and cannot follow our common rules, you can leave. It's no weirder than that if I come to a village, if I throw things all over the place and act grossly, then there's a pretty quick door showing me and not saying that you're here and do anything that I'm trying to understand you. This is a very good point that many here have brought out of it — this collection of names stopped in May — that if this collection of names had ended now at this time, when last summer this went up, this would certainly be many times higher. And it was a very good speech from Niko that we are responsible to the citizens, we are here to lay down Finland's laws. We cannot interfere with what is being done elsewhere. As long as we respect human rights agreements and act normally, we will be able to impose expulsions and talk about foreigners being overrepresented in rape statistics, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u177	Mr President! It has certainly become clear to everyone in this Chamber that the concern behind this citizens' initiative has been taken very seriously in this debate, and I am sure that it will also be reflected in further work. Personally, I would also like to thank you for the fact that, in general, this debate has been very factual. I suppose a few comments could have been left unsaid, but mostly we have managed to do quite well and we have respected this Parliament's authority as well. What I would perhaps like to do here — now that it has become very clear that this process of expulsion itself is being and can be intensified and is being done, and that is good, and I am sure that we are all waiting for the results now, that what the government is doing and how it is going to influence — is that we are already very slow with these prisoners of foreign origin who are sitting in Finnish prisons, transfers or negotiations with the host country to return them to their country of origin for these crimes. In particular, where there is no obstacle, international agreements or others, this could certainly be made more effective at the same time, so that prisoners of an increasingly foreign origin, who are guilty of crimes here, can also carry out their sentences in their country of origin. This would probably also be an economic advantage for us if we did not use scarce prison resources for foreigners, but we do not have enough domestic criminals here, which of these prison resources can enjoy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u178	Mr President! I agree, Mrs Parviainen, with you that we should not label all asylum seekers, let alone foreigners, criminals or those who tend to do so, even though the statistics show major shortcomings in this regard. However, these are individual cases, and I agree with that. And I do not believe that the authors of this citizens' initiative have meant this to any extent. This is not apparent here, but it is precisely the fact that the perpetrators of the crime should be removed from the country through tougher legislation. I'll give you one example. I was last Saturday. There were relatively many Iraqis there to talk on one occasion. After the opportunity, when they heard that I was a congressman, five Iraqi men came to talk to me. As a noseman, there was a professor person like this from the north of Baghdad, and he said to me this: "I apologize for the fact that many asylum seekers have committed crimes in Finland and do not respect these Finnish laws and respect your goodwill when you have opened the doors to us. Make legislation to banish these people who committed the crime. We ourselves do not want them to be in this country." They themselves, these asylum seekers, who only want to live in the country in accordance with the laws of the country, hope that the legislators will also protect their reputation by punishing those who violate these laws. As a result, this citizens' initiative clearly shows that this is necessary. In order to protect these asylum seekers, including, of course, our citizens, we must tighten up the laws so that such excesses in discussions can end and also end the way that we hide the problems and think that they will disappear by themselves if we do nothing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u179	Mr President! It must also be addressed in this debate when, during this debate, there has been some doubts about the functioning of this institution of citizens' initiatives and whether it is necessary. I would at least like to defend this citizens' initiative law last season because it complements this representative democracy of ours. We know that when we live in a multi-party system and we have a proportional electoral system, we have multi-party governments, so often it is that many things that are present in those elections are watered down. This is also the way for the citizens to keep an eye on us decision-makers, but these things are progressing. They cannot be swept under the carpet, but, if necessary, they will be lifted by the 50,000 signatures or electronic identification to the conversation. I believe that this is a good system which should be respected, regardless of the fact that not all the laws that are passed as a result of citizens' initiatives are always in the minds of each of us. Let us hope that citizens will continue to be active in this respect. And I would like to say that I hope perhaps a little more specific initiatives. That must be said to be the weakness of this initiative, that it was a little too loosely worded. I would like to see a great deal of effort being made when it comes to such important pieces of legislation, for example, to bring them into the form of a piece at the time when the initiative is taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u180	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u181	Mr President! This is a government proposal to clarify the conditions for granting international protection, i.e. the abolition of humanitarian protection in Finnish. The aim of the Government's proposal is that Finland should not be able to obtain a residence permit on the basis of international protection more easily than other European countries, while at the same time not compromising respect for international and European obligations that bind Finland. It is therefore proposed to repeal the provisions on residence permits granted on the basis of humanitarian protection. These authorisations have been granted if the conditions of asylum or subsidiary protection have not been met. In practice, therefore, this means that more asylum seekers will receive a negative decision in the future. This amendment would bring Finnish legislation into line with European Union law and with other European Union countries in terms of international protection. This would clarify the definitions and regulation of our international protection and at the same time ensure that Finnish legislation does not seem more favourable, so it is also a question of reducing the traction factors. This does not mean that Finland will not be protected in the future. Every asylum seeker receives individual treatment, and so we still have asylum, i.e. international protection and secondary protection in place. As statistics, four volumes of humanitarian protection were granted in 2014. At that time there were about one tenth of what happened last year, and last year 119 residence permits were granted on the basis of humanitarian protection. It then represented 7.3% of all applications last year. The situation now, for example, is likely that, when, on the basis of a country survey and a country's safety assessment, larger regions, including the region of Baghdad, were identified as a safe area, it would be very likely that, with a large number of asylum seekers from Iraq since last autumn, more humanitarian protection would have been granted. This is a good thing to understand when this decision is being taken. In other words, these two levels, secondary protection and international protection, are much clearer than perhaps a slightly different level of humanitarian protection. This has been our national legislation, and it is fully in line with European law and international human rights treaties that this change should be made. In this changed situation in particular, I consider this to be very justified, and I therefore hope that this bill will be able to move forward quickly in Parliament, because this large number of asylum applications that have been submitted to Finland are now being dealt with at an accelerated pace. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u182	Mr Niikko, let us give one reply, but we would like to take a small round of speeches and then go on with a broader response.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u183	Mr President! This is a very welcome government proposal, and it is good that the government has taken action. Such a measure is quite a welcome one in this situation, which exists in Europe. This is in no way different, because the conditions for a residence permit for humanitarian protection are not laid down in European Union law or in refugee agreements either. I would have asked the Minister how this will solve this migration problem, because I do not know how I interpret the news or article on the home page of the Ministry of the Interior there that, based on humanitarian protection, residence permits were granted very little in 2013-2014. It says here that it was about 1% of the total number of beneficiaries of international protection. This figure there on the Ministry of the Interior website is a little different now than what was just mentioned here. I do not know how these figures should be interpreted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u184	Mr President! According to this government proposal, it would no longer be possible to grant a residence permit on the basis of humanitarian protection. We would step up the notification of the decision on international protection and make the regulation on the collection of fees for the processing of applications more effective. It is intended that Finnish legislation should not be different from that of the EU and its Member States. I would remind you that the current regulation on humanitarian protection has a national background and is not based on EU law or international obligations. On this basis, very few residence permits have been granted, but in this world situation we must be proactive, as the numbers are expected to increase as the number of asylum seekers increases. Mr President! In practice, the current regulation on notification has proved to be rigid and also to be a resource eater for the police. The Finnish Immigration Service could notify the positive decisions, and it is natural that the police should notify the negative decision because the police are responsible for the implementation of the removal as they are today. In order to prevent the problem of collection of unpaid processing fees, these electronic applications should be subject to a processing fee before the application is started. I think that this government's proposal for a law on the amendment of the foreign law is very much to be welcomed, and I thank Minister Orvo for his position that this should be speeded up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u185	Mr President! Today, in the referral debate, we have a small but rather significant amendment to the Aliens Act. First of all, I would like to thank the government of Juha Sipilä for the speed with which we have been able to react to this surprising asylum crisis, which broke out last year. For its part, this legislative amendment is one of the first changes now being made to the legislation in order to get the situation under control. Mr President! Migration and the movement of asylum seekers have become a stock market or investment market, as it were. Human flows move according to the currents. Depending on the situation, the regions of origin vary and, depending on the situation, the regions of destination and the regions where asylum is sought and moved will also change. Social media and the Internet offer enormous opportunities to encourage people to leave and also to convey the right information that it is not necessarily worth going on a life-threatening trip to Europe. It is very important that Finland, as a state, sends the right signals to the region of origin with all its policies. We must avoid all unnecessary attraction factors, and the main thing in the big picture is that in the future, asylum seekers, persecution, war, poor living standards, who knows what causes the people on the run will get help as close to the regions of origin as possible, and it is in favour of Finland's financial resources and the European Union's financial resources being allocated. Mr President, I would like to quote some of this government proposal. I would like to open the quote: "However, it has been important for the government to ensure that Finnish legislation and practice are not more favourable than the minimum set by other Member States of the European Union and European Union legislation." The quote continues: "Finland's legislation currently appears a little more favourable in terms of international protection than would be required by the European Union and international obligations." The quote continues: 'the provisions on humanitarian protection are repealed. It is also known that a number of other Member States of the European Union and other Nordic countries are planning to clarify the regulatory and practical aspects of international protection." It is clear from the government's proposal that we currently have three main ways of granting asylum to the person who comes here to ask for it. The main rule is this provision of international protection, which is based on our international obligations. There is also the possibility of obtaining a residence permit on the basis of so-called secondary protection, and then this humanitarian residence permit has been the third. Our own domestic opportunity at national level has partly overlapped with this criterion of secondary protection, and in practice its use has been very limited. Among other things, the environmental disaster mentioned here in the current foreign law seems to have given no asylum at all. On the basis of this residence permit granted through international protection and this subsidiary protection, Finland is able to provide assistance to those people who really need it, and we fulfil all our European and global obligations. Mr President! I would like to draw attention to something which seems to be still small, on which I have a slight disagreement with Mrs Ruoho. This notification, the fact that in the future a positive residence permit decision could be communicated to an asylum seeker by an official of the Finnish Immigration Service and the negative would then be notified by the police, may not be as pleasant and practical as it sounds, for there is a risk that if an asylum seeker is informed that he is about to be notified, the note, to bring the police, then he will know that a negative decision is coming, now I am going to leave Finland, and then there will be a risk of escape and other disorderly behaviour. As a member of the Administrative Committee, I therefore attach great importance to the fact that we are still considering this matter in committee. Moreover, I believe that we in the Committee on Administrative Affairs will be able to go through this proposal again. I have appreciated the people who have worked there under difficult conditions during this parliamentary term. We have full work across party boundaries and across government and opposition boundaries and a good consensus to improve Finland’s internal security. At the end of the day, President, I would like to say that I think that this draft law is very much about what President Sauli Niinistö of the Republic was talking about at the opening of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u188	Mr President! In this world situation, we really need to understand the situation in which this law is being amended and what the angle of income should be. This is where Finland is now really helping to shape its own national legislation in such a way that it is in line with the EU rules that have been adopted on this issue and on which basis other EU countries already grant these asylums, i.e. on the basis of these two levels. It must also be remembered that in Sweden too this same review is going on. In Denmark and Norway, this humanitarian cause has already been removed. What I myself intended to address is that it is already directly affecting those people who have been granted temporary residence permits on this humanitarian basis. There aren't many of these. However, I think it is important that the committee, in its work, now sees to it that, in this changing situation, there are not many of these people, and that this is also the case for each of them. Then we can look at whether these people have other reasons for getting asylum in Finland. In general, as a long line — and I hope that this is the common line here in Parliament — it is that aid is actually concentrated on those who need it most. In that sense, this amendment of the law is fully understood. Then, on the other hand, it must be remembered that now that we are making these so-called blackmails in this time of the world, there will certainly be times in the future when we, in national law, again need this asylum granted on the basis of humanitarian protection. If, for example, climate change is correctly blighted and various environmental disasters arise in different parts of the world, then it is certainly worth reconsidering the fact that we would also reopen this humanitarian asylum.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u189	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Mr Orpo and the previous Members of Parliament have already told us quite well what this is all about. It is therefore a question of the EU directive knowing, of course, asylum, that is to say the actual status of refugees, and also the so-called subsidiary protection of those who do not fulfil the conditions for obtaining the actual asylum, but for whom it is justified to issue a residence permit, because there is no justification for returning them to their country of origin. In addition, Finland has a third category, the so-called humanitarian protection category, which is now being proposed for removal. In addition to the criteria laid down by the EU directive, why does this third category exist in Finland? I don't know. I have certainly been here to legislate on this, but I think it is echoes from the time when the Finnish immigration policy was implemented by the Biaudet-Thors line and not by the present Orpo line. Nowhere in Europe except Sweden is this category of humanitarian protection. The explanatory memorandum of the Government’s proposal, page 9, states that Belgium, Italy, Ireland, Austria, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, Portugal, France, Sweden, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Denmark, the Czech Republic and Hungary have been questioned and replied to the questionnaire. This category of humanitarian protection was not known anywhere but in Finland, and, as the explanatory statement of the government's proposal shows, this category is being removed from Sweden or, in any case, is being tightened up in this respect. So now the government is proposing to delete the humanitarian category. The government's proposal is very well-founded, very sensible and, of course, I support it. On the one hand, the Government justifies its proposal by seeking to harmonise our practices with other Nordic countries and other Europe, so that there is no such attraction, which, for example, brings Iraqi asylum seekers, as has been seen, through a number of countries here at the back of the Nordic region to Finland, precisely because they have the impression that Finland is easier to obtain a residence permit, it is also easier to have family reunification in Finland. The second argument, Mr Biaudet, which is why the government is proposing this amendment, is that since then the case law of the European Union has evolved in such a way that some of the cases which had previously gone under this so-called humanitarian protection now fall under the scope of secondary protection, in the light of the case law of the European Union. Mr. Speaker! When there has been an immigration debate in Finland, there has also been a debate about whether we have extremist groups in this debate or whether there is only one extremist group in this debate, namely racists and fascists.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u194	Mr President! I am happy to support this government proposal which, under the leadership of Minister Orpo, has been brought here by Parliament. To date, international protection has been divided into three categories in Finland: traditional asylum, secondary protection and then this humanitarian protection, which we are now abandoning, like Sweden. So after that, we would have uniform rules of play with other EU countries. And if I have understood correctly, there is a great deal of support in the debates, including on television, for the Green Group President's support for common rules on asylum policy within the EU. And that is exactly what will strengthen them now. Our resources are enough to help those who genuinely, really need help, and that's why you should put more bets there. In the future, international protection would only be granted by an applicant who fulfils these conditions under international or EU law. If you look at this in the light of last year's statistics, you can of course say that this does not solve anything. Last year, only 119 residence permits were issued with this, which is 7% of all residence permits. But, of course, compared to the fact that we have 30,000 applications on the table and there will probably be more this year – hopefully not as much as last year, but the worst fears may be even more than last year – then, of course, 7 % of them are already very large, and it is good that we have uniform rules of play within the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u195	Mr Andersson, and then there is room and space for a few comments.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u196	Mr President! I know many politicians and especially one party in Finland, which has repeatedly called for a proper debate on immigration and immigration policy. I also think that such an appropriate debate involves the possibility of taking time to discuss government bill proposals, to consider what potential problems or benefits are involved, without suddenly being labeled as extreme or anything else. This government proposal to amend the Aliens Act so that a residence permit based on humanitarian protection would no longer be granted at all is part of a wider development in the Nordic countries and Europe, as has already been said here. In different countries, governments are now responding to the increase in the number of asylum seekers in order to reduce the standards of international protection towards the minimum levels required by the Geneva Convention, the European Convention on Human Rights and the EU's Asylum Directives. This is a kind of race towards the bottom, where in all countries the level of protection is lowered to a minimum that is as uniform as possible. I think it is worth noting that these weakenings will not be done because the need for international protection has diminished or because these protection clauses in themselves would have proved to be unnecessary. These changes are made because, at a time when the need for protection is exceptionally high, governments in Europe want to help less. And, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should all remember that now that we are dealing with this amendment of the law, this is precisely about those in need and their rights and the level of protection. However, it is difficult to assess the long-term effects of this legislative amendment at this stage. This category of protection has not been used very much over the years and therefore the impact on the level of international protection may not be so significant or significant. On the other hand, humanitarian protection has granted a residence permit to more than 100 people in Finland last year. The possibility of a residence permit based on humanitarian protection was originally created to cover all situations in Finland where a person is in real need of international protection or under a return ban he cannot be returned. It has therefore been sought to ensure that there are no gaps in legislation. According to the government's proposal, it is possible that in some cases where a residence permit has been granted in recent years on the basis of humanitarian protection, it will be granted in the future, for example on the basis of subsidiary protection. On the other hand, the Government's proposal also states that the purpose is not to replace a residence permit on the basis of humanitarian protection by other existing residence permit criteria. This statement means that the level of international protection in Finland will decline as a result of this legislative amendment. It is also clear in this proposal how to deal with environmental disasters in the future. Climate refugees are already a major problem today, and the number of climate refugees will increase in the future. The position of these people in international law is already very weak when traditional instruments of refugee law do not take into account changes in people's living environment, such as natural disasters or climate change, as a basis for international protection. Mr President! However, I find it particularly problematic that even this legislative amendment may lead to an increase in the number of undocumented persons. Reducing paperlessness is important in terms of human rights, public health, compliance with the rules of the labour market and the overall interests of society. In Finland, it is now urgent to assess how, for example, the amendment made in the spring of last year to the Aliens Act affects the situation in which the number of asylum seekers has risen. In spring 2015, a legislative amendment was adopted in Parliament, resulting in asylum seekers who have received a negative decision no longer receiving a temporary residence permit or reception services if it is estimated that voluntary return could be possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u199	Mr. Speaker! As a member of the Constitutional Committee, I feel a little obliged to comment on those learned views of Mr Zyskowicz. In fact, we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have had the same debate this week about what legislative proposals are being sent to us and what is not being sent. We certainly have problems in the drafting of legislation in the state administration in identifying what are real constitutional, constitutional issues and which could then take a more straightforward route. I agree with Mrs Zyskowicz that the experts we are hearing should not take strong public positions in advance. But I would now like to ask Mr Zyskowicz for an alternative. What is the alternative to the functioning of the current Constitutional Committee? Is it a constitutional court? We went to Vienna in Austria last autumn. There the chairmen of the parliamentary groups will negotiate the judges to be appointed
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u200	Mr President! I say to Mr Andersson that if asylum seekers who have no grounds for obtaining a residence permit but then refuse to return to their country of origin were given a temporary residence permit, as you suggested and as was the case in the past, then the whole asylum process would have no meaning. If we have a process that is very specific and goes through the courts and states that this person has no basis for obtaining a residence permit according to the Finnish system, and if this kind of person gets a residence permit, however, when he simply declares that I am not going anywhere and Finland is a much better country than my own country of origin and I am staying here, and if he was then told that well, then there is a residence permit for you, then why do we need this asylum process? In other words, the paperless will be rid of when the paperless return to their country of origin when they are not entitled to stay in Finland. Congressman Kurviselle, I say,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u201	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz may not be familiar with this paperless situation. Quite often it is that even if the person himself wants and is ready to leave and be returned, another country will not accept him. The question then is whether it is better to live here without any papers than to have a temporary residence permit. It may not have anything to do with this question, but life is not as simple as you want it to be. It's good to get to know these things that actually happened.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u203	Mr President! I myself drew attention to this same issue, because this whole system will not work in any way if the paperless are given a temporary residence permit, because that means that the paperless will also be able to benefit from our blessed income support, for example. And how many undocumented immigrants who refuse to return to their own country are in Europe? One million, two — who knows how many million.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u206	Mr President! It is worth noting that these temporary residence permits issued in such situations are not comparable to the residence permit you receive, for example, when you receive a positive asylum decision. There's even been some pretty big problems with these B-licences. In the past there was even legislation in Finland, where, for example, the right to work had been restricted, from which we could move on to the system that used to be, which has worked better than, for example, the systems that have been used to look at, for example, Greece or Italy, where there is a huge number of people living in an undocumented state who have no chance of working officially or having access to the health system. Yes, the system that was in Finland has worked better, and the basic starting point is that when you are a person who, for one reason or another — may also be due to the unwillingness of the host country — is here, then you have the opportunity to reside in some form of official
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u207	I note yet another response from the representatives of Meri, Heinonen and Saarakkala, and if anyone still wants a reply, I hope that the button will be pressed. — Now, Mr Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u208	Mr President! I myself am a representative of the Constitutional Committee of the Finns, and I wanted to be part of this. I understood Mr Zyskowicz's criticism more in that direction, not so much against the system, but rather that he did not seem to oppose it, so that it would not be in vain to ask for statements when it comes to immigration or criminal policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u211	Mr President! Unfortunately, in such a debate, those extremes are the strongest in the voice: one extreme, that 'close the borders, we do not want to help anyone', and then the other extreme, 'welcome everyone here, we will help everyone, whether you need it or not'. Then there is the big-ass group, which is represented by this legislation, that we abide by international agreements, that we abide by the rules agreed by the EU together. We want to have uniform rules of play
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u214	Mr President! I cannot help but commenting on this constitutional debate when I was there last season in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and that was the reason why this crisis in the euro was still acute. Now there is this refugee crisis. One of the arguments that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered a lot at the time of the euro crisis is whether the State is capable of meeting the obligations that the Finnish Constitution imposes, and that is precisely our overall financial responsibility. It is now interesting to see whether this argument is still relevant to the debate and decision-making taking place in the context of this refugee crisis, especially if this refugee crisis develops in the spring, because I believe it is. This is a good thing for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to remember.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u215	Reply, Mr Räsänen. — — — — I'd love to go on to the list after that. We'll take the next debat later.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u216	Mr President! I am not going to comment on this issue of the Constitution myself, but I am not going to comment on it, but I am not going to comment on it, but I am not going to comment on it to the extent that, when we have long been talking about this immigration situation in this House and elsewhere, and we have wanted to seek a little wider shoulders and it has been said that we in Europe must look at these issues together and we must look at them together with the Nordic countries, so now, in a situation such as this, where the government makes a proposal in which our policy is more in line with the policy already being pursued in other parts of Europe and what is being done in the rest of the Nordic countries, I think it is quite understandable and, in that sense, it is easy to support. It is then another question that some people believe that, given the need for international protection, it should be increased to an even greater extent. It must now also be remembered that if we had different criteria, of course Finland's attractiveness would be quite different from that of other European countries, and especially since we do not have the Dublin rule, the other European countries have nothing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u217	And now to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u218	Mr President! Humanitarian protection on the basis of a residence permit is a completely absurd and completely unacceptable addition made by Finnish decision-makers. At last, this is likely to be corrected. I cannot understand why this has come to pass in due course. Has it not been understood that this serves as an attractive factor? For years we Finns have warned about the consequences of a loose immigration policy. These consequences are a reality with the influx of asylum seekers. The real burden is unbearable. It is quite clear that we need to tighten up our legislation in many respects. This is one small part, but it is very important for attractiveness. The fact that very few residence permits are granted on the basis of humanitarian protection does not mean that it is not relevant for those who come here. It should be noted that the crisis that is currently shaking the whole of Europe can also lead to this being used more as a basis for residence permits. It should be noted that the change also affects those who have a fixed-term residence permit on the same basis, and thus also family reunification. The Government's asylum policy action programme gives us more and more of a choice of means. We have taken the right course — too late, but still. I think we have had the smoothest asylum policy in the Nordic countries, even more lax than in Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u221	Mr President! It is worth repeating in this Chamber that the conditions for a residence permit for humanitarian protection are not laid down in European Union law or in the refugee agreement, but are based on Finland's own national solution, i.e. this is an indigenous speciality. And then a little bit of statistics. 2010: asylum was granted to 181 persons, 644 were granted subsidiary protection, and 654 were granted humanitarian protection. I myself put a written question about this last autumn about the abolition of this humanitarian protection and I am very pleased with this proposal. This is a step towards a better immigration policy. Fortunately, there is now an immigration-critical party in the government, so we must continue with these tightening ups.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u222	Mr President! As far as I am concerned, if I had to choose an identity for my part, whether I am tolerant of immigration or sniveling, I would choose to be tolerant. But, in fact, the key factors in getting through this are that asylum seekers, who have now been flooded into Europe, survive this, are precisely that acceptability in Europe is maintained, that it is maintained in Finland for Finland, and, in fact, that those who remain here have some kind of capacity to survive in the country. If we allow ourselves to be here but do not really do well with our own work, then we will do the disservice also for these comers. With regard to this acceptability, I would argue that the key issue is that this system seems clear. Of course, perhaps the biggest single challenge for this spring will be that, when these rejected decisions come in any case to more than ten thousand, they will be able to be implemented. At least I have time to hear Mr Zyskowicz's reasonable argument in this regard. In fact, in January, for example, when I myself spent time at one of the reception centres precisely because I was learning this system and at the same time being able to help, so many asylum seekers themselves seemed to wish that this system would be simpler and that a decision would only be taken on matters. That's the worst part of waiting. Here too, in my opinion, the President of the Republic, at least to a large extent, drew attention to the fact that if nothing is done, then the majority European democracy will simply not accept what is happening in an insurmountable way. That is why, as politicians, we must dare to lift that head off the bush and make reasonable decisions that will enable as many people as possible, if really in need, to be managed in an organised manner. Then, in fact, I am even more concerned about how this reception of immigration is taking place here. It also relates to the bill we have before us today. There will be a déjà-vu garrison at the reception centre very quickly with a rookie company that has nothing to do for four months. 10% of young men continue to cause problems, as would any young man in a similar situation, the resources go mainly to them. At the other end, a few percent are bright language speakers, who will certainly be fine if they receive a residence permit. There is no time to focus on that majority. Whatever was done here, it is practically the decisive factor for the position of these arrivals here during its dull and poor waiting time that we could shorten the process from the six months in which it is estimated that those who have come this past autumn will have it for at least three months. In this regard too, if we can remove one aspect of the current multi-disciplinary system, that is, this reflection on humanitarian reasons, if it can get even some weeks away from decisions, then I would argue that in terms of how these people will manage and settle in Finland, what their acceptance in the eyes of the general population will be later, how active they will be, that is quite significant. Every week of waiting without practical significance and uncertainty about whether or not to be here takes opportunities for years to come. In this respect, I also believe that, as a matter of fact, the extension of the labour test legislation, for example, as soon as the identity has been established, would definitely make sense for all of us to invest in these immigrants, even if one may feel that someone who has been unemployed would be the first. But for all of us, the sooner you get to work practice to do something, it's definitely better. I must also say that there are many motives for coming here. You'll see. At such a reception center it seems that they themselves talk about each other in such a way that there may have been a large number of competitions between countries, to see where to come. In particular, it has come to Finland that it is believed that there is not yet so much congestion and that there is reasonable legislation here. Many people will be disappointed with these decisions, and even more will be disappointed that there are no countrymen here who can work in the back rooms of their restaurants as if they were mini-jobs like in Germany, but a large part of them will probably have much more difficulty building their own life. But when we come here with a lot of motives, I would argue that we should not build such a tempting factor, with which there is always a gap in our system to justify staying here, but that it really is good to clarify and speed up the system in every way. In my opinion, this bill, which is now on the table, is doing so quite reasonably. In any case, there are enough grounds for granting a residence permit to a person if he is genuinely in need or even in need of subsidiary protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u224	Madam President! The representatives of the government parties have lauded this motion. However, in spite of everything, I believe that this proposal is not without problems, provided that Mrs Zyskowicz now puts me at some extreme point, to which I do not believe I belong. I believe that a common EU asylum and protection policy is necessary and, of course, there is a need for more common practices. Above all, the harmonisation of activities is a good thing. However, I do not believe that the possible implementation of this proposal will bring the so-called results that the government clearly hopes for. For the moment, protection is available in Finland on three grounds: refugee status, subsidiary protection and humanitarian protection. Refugee status shall be subject to direct persecution by reason of race, religion, nationality, membership of the social class or political opinion of the person concerned. Secondary protection may be granted in situations where a person cannot be returned to a country where he or she would be subjected to torture or inhuman treatment or where there is a serious conflict in the country of origin. Humanitarian protection can now be granted if a person cannot return to his or her country of origin due to an environmental disaster or a poor security situation, but is not entitled to protection on the basis of refugee status or subsidiary protection. It's a kind of last-minute security clause in case of special cases. As has been said here, humanitarian protection, unlike secondary protection, is not based on international regulations. If so, it is technically possible to make a change such as that proposed by the government if Parliament decides to do so. In practice, there are few permits for residence on the basis of humanitarian protection. Last year the number of these decisions increased, but less than one-tenth of residence permits were still based on this criterion. Thus, the immediate impact of the Government's proposal on the whole of Finland seems modest. Nor does the proposal provide any comprehensive solution as to how we take responsibility for helping those in need in general. For example, we still have to deal with the integration of many thousands of people on very different grounds. The government argues that this is a so-called attraction factor which must be removed. I think it would require some pretty clear arguments, and also additional evidence, to be credible in claiming that this is actually an essential attraction that a very large number of people would be seeking for Finland. If people are informed of an individual section, they may also be aware of how few people receive protection through this section on this basis. Of course, for the few individuals who will not be protected on this basis in the future, it may be a matter of life and death. The world is changing faster than our decrees. It has been seen many times in Finland in the last year. An important trend for the future will certainly be the worsening of environmental problems, for example as climate change increases. Even if we succeed in limiting climate change, the problem will not be completely eliminated, only mitigated. Thus, in the future, an increasing proportion of refugees can also be associated with environmental disasters. That is why it is good that we have clear rules in time on what conditions and in what ways we will also manage to respond to environmental refugees, especially when we also have our own responsibility to cause environmental problems. I do not think that the answer is that if this issue is not taken into account in legislation in other European countries by just the same lines as we do, then we should not think about it. Rather, Europe should develop a coherent response to this problem in advance, so that we are not caught by surprise with our pants down. The least that Finland could do is to promote joint action by the EU, which also takes account of the challenges of environmental refugeeism and our shared responsibility for it. It is also in Finland's interest that EU countries do not play Black Pekka among themselves on the refugee issue and part-optimize their regulations more rigorously. It is not only those in need but also the whole of the EU and, ultimately, Finland. I have reservations about this proposal. I believe that, in one way or another, we will find this for us in the face of an increase in environmental refugee status.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u225	Madam President! In this extreme debate, it is the Greens and their Presidents, Ville Niinistö, who often emphasise that there are no two extremes in the debate. There are only these Rajat closed groups and then there are all the others who are defending human rights. Ville Niinistö is also wrong about this. There are two extremes to this debate. There's this Rajat closed group, and all the fascists and neo-Nazis and all the rest of it go to extremes. And then there is this other extreme, which includes, for example, Mrs Parviainen, those who oppose and see different bogeymans in a rational proposal that harmonises Finnish legislation in relation to other European legislation. Congressman Jonah Räsänen seems to be a reasonable man. He specifically said that this is about getting rid of the attraction that exists for Finland, and there is no reason for us to try to ensure that thousands of Iraqis, for example, come to Finland just because they have the impression that it is easier to get a residence permit here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u226	Mr President! I have to say that in Mrs Zyskowicz's speeches there is rarely so little substance and so much blame. I think it is all right that this kind of draft law can be discussed in exactly this way, which Mrs Parviainen has also done here, and where the draft law is analysed from the point of view that it also takes into account the potential problems it may involve. In these previous speeches, this question arose as to why this category of protection exists in the first place. At the time when the EU introduced this definition directive on asylum seekers, it was not yet certain what was interpreted as being part of this category of subsidiary protection, and then, in the interests of certainty, the Finnish legislators decided to create this category of protection for humanitarian protection, in order not to create such situations as those in which a person in need of international protection is deprived of any justification on the part of an individual applicant.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u227	And one more response, Mrs Räsänen, Jonah.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u228	Mr President! Of course, it is very good to remember now that, when we are all, hopefully, playing by the same rules in Europe, and precisely on the basis of this subsidiary protection, we have already done so, and this has been reduced. Today, in a way, those who, other than now, in the current situation, would have applied for asylum on this humanitarian basis are increasingly going there. It is worth remembering here that, in my opinion, this is not so dramaticly limiting the possibility of asylum for a person as it may be implied. Then maybe I'd interfere with this gravitational factor. It is indeed the case that it is difficult to say what a single thing is always a attraction factor and what is not, but when these surveys and studies have been carried out, only in these regions of origin there is a picture in Finland that somehow things work easier here, here you can find asylum more easily than elsewhere. What should we do to address this? There must be a lot of ways, but there are all kinds of signals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u229	And then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u230	Ärade talman, Mr President! This debate is interesting because it is, in fact, a very small change and it gives rise to a great deal of enthusiasm. I think that Minister Orpo has, in fact, bought the satisfaction of the Finns, as if they were making a major immigration or refugee-restriction policy. In my opinion, anyone who knows a little about statistics sees that this has had a very, very small significance in terms of statistics and figures on permits granted by Finland or other, but of course it is exactly as Mrs Parviainen and Mr Andersson said here that this was created because no person who really needs international protection would be excluded. In an individual case, of course, it could have been very, very important for one person. There were four people in 2014 and then last year were these 117, as the Minister said. Of course, if we are talking about attraction factors, it may be a little overstated that this is some sort of attraction factor. I'm sure there would have been a little more applicants on this basis. The Chief of Staff of the Ministry of the Interior has stated that we have discussed, among other things, these Iraqis who have withdrawn their applications and who have come to Finland on false grounds, perhaps in the sense that they have believed in Finland, that they are very welcome in Finland and that things going in Finland quickly and get their families here, that in fact a very large number of them, the Chief of Staff, would have had grounds for granting asylum. That the question is not necessarily that there were no grounds, but that they themselves chose for other reasons. I'm sure you're quite satisfied with that, the Finns of Finland in the government, and Mrs Zyskowicz,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u235	Madam President! I am not so familiar with these power theories, to which Mr Biaudet referred, but I believe that honesty can be spoken of.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u240	And now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u241	Mr President! That's where I listened to Biaudet, and I'm not going here to tell you who belongs to which group, but welcome to my world, I'm a basic Finn. I have never said anything racist and yet very often I find myself a racist or at least laughing at me. Last night I was listening in that hallway when journalists were laughing at the basic Finnish racists. That welcome, this is what it is like, when you take it for your own opinion sometimes in conversation. Mr Andersson said that this has come into our legislation and that it is a pity that it is being removed and that the EU was in some kind of search at the time. I listened to President Niinistö's speech a few weeks ago, and he pointed out that all international regulations and agreements on immigration and refugee issues would certainly be made different today, because these have been quite different times and places — there was no such migration in Europe, it must be remembered. But then really this reform. Biaudet said there were questionable arguments. What is questionable about following the same line as in the EU? After all, we always talk here in this Chamber, particularly those who are opposed to the government's proposals on some issues, that there should be a European level. Well, let's go to that European level. And why on earth should we have better regulations here than in the rest of Europe? I don't understand it at all. And the fact that — I don’t know who you meant — someone has sold himself to the Finns. We are the government party, the people have wanted us there, for example, because of our immigration programme. Whether the change is small or not, I think it's a good thing we're doing it. Obviously, if the RKP were in the government, this little change would not be made either. These things are done one thing at a time, not those...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u244	Mr President! Actually, I don't remember what I had to say in the first place. But, of course, it is because I said that these arguments behind this change seem to be very strange, because in fact there has been no problem, there has been a very small, numerically small situation and a very small number of protection permits. And in the sense that it is implied that the flow of refugees, as it were, and so on, is perhaps loaded with a few different motives, and then, as it were, we give our own support forces the impression that we have won such an enemy victory. But if this feels good, of course it's good to have a small head.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u245	At this stage, I will give two replies, Mr Andersson and Mr Meri. Then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u246	Mr President! First of all, Mrs Merelle: I regret to hear that your group members have been laughed at, and at least in my own policy I have always sought to talk about the substance of the arguments and not to label or accuse anyone. In my opinion, such a culture of discussion kills all intellectual political debate about this country. Then, as far as the definition directive is concerned, I think it is from the beginning of the 21st century whether it was 2004 or not, in that sense we are talking about legislation which has been created at European level far later than, for example, the Geneva Convention, which entered into force at the beginning of the 50s. In my opinion, it is also worth bearing in mind that with this bill of law: Finland is lowering the standards of national legislation towards the EU minimum, but in itself there is no new cooperation at European level or creating any new mechanism, a common European one with which we deal in this crisis. However, these measures are still awaited, and this change in law does not in itself have anything to do with such work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u247	Mr President! I forgot what something bad about the victory of angry people the Biaudes were just talking about. I don't think that's a proper comment. Actually, I forgot what I was supposed to say, but anyway... Yes, that is what I had to say that, in the presentation, Minister Orpo admitted that a very small percentage of this is being granted today. So no one has now claimed that this will solve the whole immigration policy, of course, and this is not an EU solution, since we are not here to decide on EU issues. Congressman Andersson, I'd like to answer that. But this is how things are done, as you know, step by step they are brought. Is it the case that if this does not solve the whole of immigration, then this reform should not be carried out? If we think about the immigration flows that may still be coming, it may be that this percentage would rise without this section.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u248	Then let's go to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u249	Madam President! We have discussed this motion here, and I would like to say quite frankly that it is too loose. I am one of those people that Mr Zyskowicz said, the Rajat catch group. I'm gonna be honest with you because I think so. We have the situation here, here on the left and the opposition in general, that this legislation must be integrated with the Nordic countries. Do other countries have 1,300 kilometres of Russian border where anything can happen? No, it's not. We must take a firmer line here that chaos will not arise in this country. The Finns have brought here exactly what this country needs. Fortunately, there are the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u250	Madam President! This proposal is a good start to the change that has been made in Finland's immigration policy with the involvement of the Finnish People's Government, but this is really only the beginning, and this is not too much to praise now, because this is not enough for anything at all. This is a very small change, but in principle it is a big change. So you could say that this is like what I said about Tammi Tamminen at the print-up level. In view of the way in which this development has started in this political change, it is still last summer and early autumn that many leading politicians spoke through their heads — unfortunately quite briskly — what this phenomenon of immigration is all about. We have already said that there are about one third of these applicants who will be entitled to asylum, and then we will talk about these arrivals last year. Now that you have come from the Russian side, this figure for their part is still much, much smaller. But here was part of opening the doors completely on its back, that welcome, regardless of what the grounds are. This is the background to the fact that, during the last parliamentary term here, some parties and then the government, for example, drove full health care services to the undocumented. I can't believe it. I can't believe it. I can't believe it. I can't believe it. In the last parliamentary term, positive special treatment was also finally changed as a result of the vote, so that now even on the basis of ethnicity and religious convictions, if you are a minority, you are currently receiving positive special treatment, anyone who can demand without being discriminated against. There will be such a Pandora's box when a red-green official discovers this in his own chamber that there is certainly room for greater legislative changes, and then it will be stated who has been wrong. I was against these.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u251	Mr President! Perhaps it has to be said here itself that I do not think, under any circumstances, that this change in the law in this large picture will bring about a great deal of change, and it is true that there is still a great many measures to be taken at European level to bring this matter under control as a continent as a whole. But I cannot fail to say this now, although I am a representative of the opposition party, that I understand perfectly well that this is the way the logic usually goes, that in small pieces these proposals are brought here to Parliament, then they are dealt with and, in the end, they form a larger whole. I find it quite natural that, even in matters like this, Parliament will now exercise legislative power and do these minor tightening ups to our national legislation to the extent that other European countries have already done in the past and what neighbouring Sweden is now doing. What I would perhaps like to talk more about in this context is indeed the measures that we in the Mediterranean region should take to ensure that we have the EU's external border control there — that everyone who comes to the continent is properly registered, so that we know who has arrived in Europe — and the measures that are being taken between the European Union and Turkey so that we can, for our part, facilitate the situation in Turkey, where millions of refugees are currently waiting for their living conditions to improve even a little. It must also be borne in mind that in these efforts, when we want to curb the amount that Europe is seeking to secure, then it will also have to be reconsidered whether, for example, in the context of the cuts in development cooperation appropriations, the government should re-evaluate whether they were sensible decisions that we could have just made, for example, in those areas where, at present, refugee camps are going in a worse direction and where we are going to seek refuge in Europe. These measures could help us to ensure that the flood into Europe is much smaller than it is at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u252	Mr President! This change is only the prelude to the reforms of the government, in which we safeguard the well-being of Finland, the security of our citizens and avoid complete chaos. However, I agree with Mr Hakkarainen that this is absolutely inadequate, but it is a start. It is high time that this third criterion of protection, which does not exist in many other countries, was removed from the law, except, apparently, in Sweden, which I do not want to take as a model in immigration policy. Has the green left and this extreme tolerant head forgotten that when the foreign law was adopted, there was a completely different situation? After all, the aim was to give protection to the few who go all the way here to help those fleeing from crisis-like humanitarian disasters. The idea was very similar to that of the UN refugee system. But instead, this whole asylum process became a significant loophole in the law that is being used to promote the transfer of living standards. I guess I won't have to explain any more to you about the current situation, because we all know that already. It is clear that illegal, uncontrolled immigration of this scale is a problem. Finland already distributes asylum too generously, gives more positive decisions than most of the other EU countries, so that this problem will be addressed by a decision, a change of law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u253	Reply, Mr Immonen. — Excuse me, Mrs Parviainen, Mr Olli-Son.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u257	That's the kind of thing I'd ask you in that row, are you sitting in the right places? — — — —
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u258	Mr President! Mrs Saarakkala actually summed up quite well what we are talking about here, so it is a rather small change, but it is a big change in principle. And, yes, I think it is important that this debate is being held — even if this legislative change does not necessarily lead to such major changes — precisely because, when the protection criteria are being changed, as is being done now, or, for example, because the criteria for family reunification are being tightened up, as is still going to be done this spring, when the fundamental rights of people in need and how well they are being implemented are being discussed — not about this other group, which is constantly being referred to, that there are people who, with apparently unfounded applications, are trying to obtain asylum. To Mr Zyskowicz too: I do not know whether it will make me an extreme representative if, in such a world political situation, I am not in favour of restricting the right of asylum, but I have nowhere, for example, proposed extending it. What I hold on to and what I attach importance to is that we take care of the functioning of our existing asylum system, its legal basis, the legal security of applicants, the existence of an effective integration system in Finland, the existence of legal routes to Europe as well. It's the best way to reduce trafficking in human beings. I hope that more effort will be made on the work that is being done in neighbouring areas, in refugee camps, and I hope that we will find a solution to the conflict in Syria, which is the only way to resolve this current refugee situation in the long term. If that makes me the ultimate representative, then I am.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u259	Madam President! To this debate on these extremes of the debate: firstly, I regret once again that I accidentally used the term 'extreme group' in my previous speech. I really meant the extremes. And as I have already said, I have been disturbed by the fact that Ville Niinistö and the partners argue in the public debate that there is only one extreme in the debate, namely these Rajat closed groups, to which Mr Hakkarainen said he belonged. In my opinion, the other end of the debate is, for example, those who, here and now, are opposed to changes in Finland's asylum legislation that make the situation in Finland practically the same as it is in all other European countries. They represent this other extreme in this debate and there is nothing bad about it in itself. In my opinion, it is only fair to say, rather than trying to ensure that this Rajat catch group is the only extreme in the debate and that these who represent the other extreme are merely defenders of human rights and promote all the good in the world. As far as the issue is concerned, I fully agree with Mr Andersson that this refugee crisis itself certainly requires solutions other than those we can reach in Finland. Of course, solving the refugee crisis will require a calming down of the situation in these countries themselves. Russia is also currently fighting terrorism in Syria by bombing innocent civilians in Aleppo. In the expectation that these actual centres of crisis will calm down, in the expectation of this, we need solutions on which we agree with Mr Andersson: that the European Union, Finland as part of it, will provide, through various channels, more support for those countries which are adjacent to these centres of crisis and where these huge refugee camps are located in order to make the conditions of these refugee camps more humane so that children can go to school there so that people can receive health care so that these people do not go further from their countries to Europe but can live in these refugee camps under more humane conditions and wait for the situation of their own country to calm down, so that they can return to their own country. What I said earlier is that those who wish to apply for asylum in the Member States of the European Union could apply in these camps through the representations of the European Union. There they could be or be subject to this asylum process, and if they receive asylum or international protection in European countries, such as Finland, then they could take a legitimate route without their lives giving their fate to human smugglers. And I also said in my previous speech that, in my opinion, this would require that the number of quota refugees should also be examined in the various European countries, including Finland. But as far as the situation in Finland is concerned here and now, I think it is important that Finland does not have the attraction factors that lead to it, as was the case last autumn, that thousands of Iraqis came through several safe European countries here to the northern parts of Finland to apply for asylum in Finland. And although not everything that has been told in the media should be believed, enough people have told me and I have been able to read from enough sources the arguments of these asylum seekers in which they say they came to Finland because they have the impression that they can obtain a residence permit more easily in Finland and that they can easily get to Finland after their families. And it is essential that Finland — when I think we should not be a particularly attractive factor — try to change these factors and also to communicate these changes in order to eliminate or at least reduce this attraction. This law, which has been said here that its practical significance and impact are not only very great, is part of this legislative change and, as has been said here, we still need to make changes to, for example, family reunification regulations, and there are other things that we need to change and we want to change under these circumstances. It was said here that Minister Orpo has cheaply obtained the support of the Finns by bringing this proposal here. In my opinion, it was a cheap assessment of Minister Orpo's work, which has been very respectable. These are the reasons for this proposal in what I have just said and what has also been stated in the explanatory statement of the government's proposal. Finally, Mr President, I would like to return to this constitutional issue once the President has changed, and I do not understand that when the explanatory statement of the government's proposal states that there are no dimensions in relation to fundamental rights here, in relation to our international treaties which would require the Constitution to be dealt with, and when this page and a half is justifiable in the explanatory statement of the government's proposal, the result is that it is nevertheless important to ask for the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I do not understand this, and I would be tempted to make a proposal not to send it to the Constitutional Committee, but now that I have been here for so long and such a constructive representative, I will not make that proposal, but this current procedure is in crisis. We will send about all the more important and even less important issues to the Constitutional Committee. We can put an end to the rest of Parliament and leave the Constitutional Committee behind, and the next step will be to abolish the committee and leave behind the few constitutional scholars who can resolve matters on our behalf.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u260	Mr President! I am referring to the previous point that this is too loose. These attraction factors must be brought to an end in Finland — as I said we have the Russian border — and in Europe. Look at Australia. They don't accept. There's not a single drowned child or anything when you don't take it. The boundaries are closed. And there won't be a chance for such nonsense. We have Malta in the Mediterranean, for example. There are 116 asylum seekers admitted. Lonely men are put in containers. They don't go in there. They are the real asylum seekers of these 116. They must be in some kind of emergency. — These will enjoy our interests. And then these gravitational factors. There is talk of integration and how to employ and so on. How do we employ a goatherd? There's no way. Or is a trained goat counselor. How do you employ it? We don't have jobs for them. In other words, this cultural difference must be taken into account in this matter. And if we talk about this, that Islam is a religion of peace; I'm sure if the Tatar comes here, it'll start selling carpets, that sort of thing. But these who come from the Middle East, there has been chaos all along, throughout history, and we will integrate these. This doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u261	Irade the Talman! Man blir faktiskt litet utan ord effecter dyslika anföranden. Här har i dag talats om det att man vill trygga framtide för Finland, och även om vi behandlar en liten del av utlänningslagen, beviljande av internationellt skydd på basen av humanitara orsaker, handlar motiveringarna i talen valdigt mycket om att trygga Finlands välfärd och framtide. Näringslivet har iåratal vart oroligt för att vi inte har tillräckligt med invandring till Finland och att vi brode få tiotusentals människor till Finland varje år för att kunna sköta om till exempel vår åldrande befolkning i framtiden. Det rauh har naturligtvis inte egentligen någonting att göra med aylrätten, men på det viset är det naturligtvis valt synd om Finland blir ett land som präglas av rädsla för främlingar, rädsla för asylsökare, rädsla för alla som är annorlunda bland you give, och det kommenter bara sådana människor till Finland som inte har någon annästanstans att ta vägen. Som tur det faktiskt funnits tusentals, tiotusentals finländare som har ställt upp och visat ett stort hjärta och ställt upp för de asylsökare som har kommit till Finland, och det är naturligtvis betydligt fler än den är minoriteten som är frälingsfientlig här vill visa. Jag oroar mig för att man talar så mycket om pull-factorer. Det är helt klart att det kan finnas felaktiga biller om Finland som land, till example att vi välkomnar utlänningar — det är säkert en felaktig Bild — men det har ingenting att göra med paragraferna i utlänningslagen. Till sist vill jag säga att jag tycker att föraktet mot juridiska expert och forskning är onödigt. Vi kan bara göra kloka beslut om vi specterar den kungskap som finns i våra universitet. Vi kan kalla olika slags sakkunniga till våra utskott och har all rätt att bilda våra uppfattningar på basen av dem eller utan att beakta dem.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u262	Madam President! Just a few words. — — — — There have been some interesting conversations here. There's been talk of extremes and that and this. Personally, I do not know where I belong: am I tolerant or am I 'closed'? I feel that I am tolerant and, at the same time, I would require a rather careful look at what is happening at that border. Ten years in the Middle East must have taught you something that maybe you don't learn at the university or in something you do. I also find it strange that Mr Biaudet's comment is that some chief of staff at one of the ministries has told him that he feels that they deserve asylum. As far as I'm concerned, the Chief of Staff doesn't really do asylum talks. He's not qualified to do that. And he doesn't make any decisions about these either. I'd love to hear a little more about this. As far as this is concerned, when the Minister of Interior Orpo was mentioned that he has bought the Finns of Finland, I think it is perhaps a throw that belongs somewhere other than the Parliament. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u263	Mr President! The draft law on the abolition of residence permits granted on the basis of humanitarian protection harmonises Finland's asylum practices in a pan-European direction. Last year, a little over a hundred residence permits were granted on the basis of humanitarian protection, so it is not in itself a very big change. However, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, the increase in the number of asylum seekers could be considerably higher in the future. From a principle point of view, in any case, it is a question of eliminating additional attraction factors, and it is one of the means to ensure that Finland will not be subjected to a new avalanche of asylum seekers, at least because of excessive attraction factors. There is, of course, also a need for further tightening of immigration and asylum policy and for the existing loopholes in the laws to be closed. The Finns of Peru greeted these tightenings with joy. Mr President! Earlier in this debate, Mr Ronkainen made the most commendable point that Finland should take the example of tightening up in Denmark, for example. As Mr Hakkarainen said, Finland should tighten its immigration policy at least as tight as it is in the other Nordic countries. If these views put us at the right end of the immigration debate, then so be it. Finally, I would like to thank the government for this bill and encourage it to speed up the further tightening of its immigration policy. High-quality legislation will certainly take its time, but the direction is the right one.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u264	Mr President! In fact, I took the floor when I did not receive an answer to that previous speech by Mrs Parviainen. It gave me the impression from your speech that you defended this illegal immigration by speaking in such a way that there should be legal channels for immigration. I'm not signing that speech logic. I do not understand whether you do not understand that it is in this current system that the people who do not need it most come here. The Finns also want to create a system in which the help that Finland decides to give will certainly go to those who need it, i.e. it is targeted correctly and not just for social security. Now this system is based on false papers, falsehoods and human smuggling. Yes, we Finns want to do this in such a way that this system is sustainable, that it is responsible, for the safety, carrying capacity and our economy as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u265	Madam President! I wanted to continue the debate on these so-called paperless ones, of which Mr Andersson, among others, spoke. It is estimated that some of these who have received a negative asylum decision will not voluntarily return to their country of origin and will therefore remain in Finland as so-called paperless. So what is this phenomenon about? So it is people who have come to Finland who have applied for asylum. Since then, they have no grounds for asylum, no grounds for subsidiary protection and, at the moment, no grounds for humanitarian protection. The Finnish Immigration Service has been able to challenge this decision and in practice have challenged it in the Helsinki Administrative Court. Since then, they have still had an appeal procedure before the Supreme Administrative Court and, of course, it is also being used. In other words, after the whole of our judicial process, it has been said that these people have no legal basis for obtaining a residence permit from Finland. They have the opportunity to return to their own country. However, some of these people refuse to leave, and now Mr Andersson felt that those who refuse to leave should be granted a temporary residence permit. I think that would be absurd. It would take the bottom away from the entire asylum process. Why do we need an asylum process if, in any case, everyone who wants to stay and refuses to return will have a residence permit? In other words, as far as these undocumented persons are concerned, the whole Finnish society aims to leave Finland because they have no basis or legal right to be in Finland. This is what it's all about. We should not make it easier for them, because then they will be even more sure not to leave Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u266	Madam President! My view is that this residence permit granted on the basis of the need for humanitarian protection is part of the attractiveness factors for Finland. It is not of great importance on its own, but it is part of these other factors and tempting factors that we have here in Finland that can cause people to want to come here to a great extent. And that is what has been proven when the statements of these asylum seekers have been heard. It is therefore good that the Finnish system is being harmonised with the EU countries in this respect. I see no harm in the system being tightened up in this way. It is good that we tighten up our procedures and reception systems, especially when it has been shown that a significant part of us comes here on the basis of the so-called 'immigration criterion', namely to seek a better life, a future which is understandable in itself, but which is not in actual need of our help. However, there are plenty of people in the world who need help, not all of us can help, but of course our limited resources must be allocated in such a way that those who need help from us can and those who can build their own future can do so by other means.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u267	Madam President! The purpose of this law is and is the first step towards securing a welfare state. That's all this is about. Every year, 30 million more refugees will be born in Africa if we want to. What will happen to our standard of living? That's what this is all about. Do we want to safeguard our own national welfare state? We now have about 32,500 asylum tourists last year. This is one of the achievements of socialism. Where are the socialists now praising what has happened? This is what socialism achieves, and they want more socialism. Yet history shows well what socialism's achievements are. There's nothing good in there. But these boast with these and support them. We are patriotically trying to catch up, secure the welfare state and so on. And our own culture: we have our own special language, Finnish, we have our own ticket. All of these we want to keep. But if these achievements of socialism come here, they will be lost.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u268	Mr President! In this speech this migration, which is also what this acute situation is all about, is that people are seeking a better standard of living, so we must also see what it is about. We already have 60 million refugees in the world. Where most of them are, in the immediate vicinity of these conflict areas, in neighbouring countries, in camps there, and conditions are getting worse and worse. It is to be assumed that the movement from there, too, in the hope of a better life, will go somewhere else. And then this migration also tells us that in our world inequality is growing so that the difference between the poorest and the richest regions is increasing, which means, of course, that when such a gap in living standards arises, then it is quite understandable that for human reasons someone is going to go for that better standard of living. And when we know, however, that in this situation we want to help those who are now in need of humanitarian aid, then we should be able, by other means, to curb this other immigration. And that is where I call for this international cooperation in order to be able to tackle the fact that the basic conditions of life are now in good condition, even to the extent that there is no immediate need to go out and pursue a better life from somewhere else.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u269	Madam President! I would like to comment to Mr Tavio on his previous speech to the extent that I am pleased if the Finns of Finland also want to help those who are most in need of help. I'm sure we're on the same page. This is a new information for me in that, for example, when you made a government programme after the last elections, the glaze you put forward, for example, about the cuts in development aid, is, in my view, at odds with the fact that you now want to help these most vulnerable people. But great, if this direction is changing, and it is important, because it is certainly our common goal that we should also be able to take aid where it is most urgently needed. I didn't defend illegal entry. I explained one of the key reasons why we are illegally reaching the country and the European Union as a whole, and that is precisely because there are no legal means. When, in practice, there are no legal means for many, then a way may be chosen that might work. These means are often illegal, and that is a problem not only for the people who travel here but also for societies whose asylum machinery, for example, is under strain because asylum applications come from people who, according to our standards, do not in principle need asylum. Then people who really need asylum will also suffer because they will have to wait longer for their chance. I offered a humanitarian visa, for example. Of course, this should also be introduced and discussed at EU level in order to avoid part-optimisation between EU countries. The idea would therefore be that we could make it possible for asylum to be sought from the nearest EU consulate, for example, with certain protocols, and then a first-stage assessment of whether there is any possibility of access would be made there in the country of origin or very close to the country of origin. Then, if necessary, the person could arrive at his own expense and safely in the country or, in fact, in the European Union, which should then coordinate, as a matter of fact, the countries concerned. But we're still a long way from this today. At the moment, discussions on EU asylum policy seem to be largely limited to who tightens up the hard ones, and we are focusing on how we can get the EU to hold its southern borders while at the same time:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u270	Mr President! Thank you for your reply to Mrs Parviainen. However, I would like to point out that it is precisely because of the fact that free housing and the best social security in Europe are even attractive here in Finland. In addition, we are illegally entering the country, of course, because it is possible. Always, if you're given a chance from that Middle East to come here, you'll get a better standard of living, I'm sure you will. If you're talking about such an infinite world, it's not real. Now that we're talking about some Rajat catch-up movement, this has gone to the level of imagery. So, of course, the limitless world is not real. If we decide to give up our borders completely, then Finland will stop tomorrow. I'm sure a million Chinese people will be happy to come in here and rob all our assets. There is nothing against the Chinese, this was a metaphor like this. I am not going to go here now that this debate on development aid is not part of it, but I am sure you will understand that the people of Peru have certainly not objected to this purpose of development aid itself. You can be quite happy with this, though, that even we Finns in Peru really want to help people in distress, we have always wanted to. You may not have wanted to just listen to us then. We have criticised precisely the absurdity of development aid, how it is direct budget support, how it has not got these countries on their feet, and it is not worth giving such budget support. Then let us develop, even the Greens, just use energy to improve the quality of this development aid and not to provide it with direct budget support.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u271	Madam President! Development aid is a good subject for discussion in this context, I do not deny it, but I can only say that it has been given some EUR 1000 million from the state budget last year, that is, EUR 1 billion, and it has been a significant item in the budget of just over EUR 50 billion, it has been a major item of expenditure, it has been an important item, and then, when there are various studies on how citizens view development aid, they are very positive about it, but when asked what should be cut, development aid is always there at the top of three, and I think that is the top of the list. Based on this, the Finns have implemented the policy we have been pursuing in the elections, and now development aid appropriations have been calculated. And it must be said that this influx of refugees would probably not be any smaller, even if we had had development aid even more significant than it has now been. Yes, these are other global reasons, and it is precisely war and the great powers that are responsible for them, as is the case that small Finland's development aid can only heal its own conscience, but it does not actually change these big things. There are also people in developing countries who have come to tell us that this is the only way to push this up, one could say, the imbalance and distortion of world politics, which has been maintained by, for example, the capital circles and the globalisation gangs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u272	Mr President! The representative, Parviainen, painted a new procedure for dealing with migration to Europe through the asylum system. The positive thing about this idea, in my opinion, was that this search takes place at the place of origin, in the country of origin, but in my opinion it is categorically wrong thinking that immigration should be dealt with through the asylum system. Not like that, but the asylum system is clearly for people in need and in need and it helps them. If anyone wants to move to Europe in the hope of a better future, let it be something else than this asylum system, because otherwise it will be this very system of ours that will be blocked by those who really need help and who deserve it. Of course, our own figure is whether it is worth thinking at all that education from other countries, Africa, the Middle East, without education, is worth looking for a better future for Europe, because education requirements in the workplaces and elsewhere in the EU are quite different from those in the countries of origin. And I would say that for every success story of an immigrant there are at least five sad fates that have not been successful since then in the EU. Is it right for these people, too, to create an illusion of a better future in Europe, which they do not necessarily have the real conditions to enter, that is, the dream of having no education or cultural basis? This is not their fault, people's fault, but the fault of the societies that are going to be, but we need to develop another procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u273	Mr President! I was just going to finish by commenting on this when Mrs Saarakkala quite rightly raised these cuts in development cooperation, whether they are now correlations to this flood, which is people's source: it is a fact, however, that the UN refugee organisation has reported that last year, for example, in these refugee camps that they have maintained, where the money has really run out, because the countries have no longer given refugee organisations money to maintain these camps, there has been a shortage of health care, education and food, and it has, of course, also moved people. It is quite obvious that if, in the temporary camps, where people are going to go to get the first help from the feet of the war, the conditions are increasingly deteriorating or the numbers are growing excessively, it will lead to more and more of them going from there as well. And that is why I myself raised this point that it also matters how much and where we are targeting development cooperation in Finland, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u274	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u275	Mr President! In fact, I came here to speak on behalf of Mr Gustafsson, but a few words about the main content of this bill. In other words, this bill proposes to amend the Employment Contracts Act and the Criminal Code by prohibiting the use of temporary agency labour, so to speak, for the purpose of replacing workers on strike with temporary workers. This initiative therefore seeks to respect the right of workers to strike, which is a fundamental right of workers and is part of the freedom of workers to organise themselves. The use of so-called temporary agency workers in industrial battle situations must be regarded as a serious violation of freedom of association. The adoption of the bill and its amendment to the law has made the situation, among other things, the situation we saw in the postal sector in the autumn. So there were these threats and preparatory measures to obtain temporary employment to carry out any future work under the strike. In this situation, Posti’s employees would even have been obliged by the employer to familiarise them with the workers hired for strike in advance. Since then, Posti also gave up this plan, and that's a good thing. There is no detailed provision in Finnish legislation on the prohibition of the use of temporary agency labour in the event of an industrial dispute with a view to replacing workers on strike. The legal debate has shown that the use of criminal labour is not in itself prohibited by Finnish law during industrial battles. But when we look at international comparisons, we note that the prohibition of temporary agency workers to break strikes, i.e. as a criminal labour force, is prohibited by law in Europe, including France, Belgium and Poland. International examples show that it has been felt necessary at national level to impose bans on the use of what is known as'smock labour', such as in France. In recent times, Finnish working life has also become unnecessarily more acute as a result of threats to the use and use of the so-called criminal labour force, which has led to prolonged and more difficult work disputes. A legislative ban would have prevented this kind of negative development in the Finnish labour market. At the end of the day, the International Labour Organisation (ILO) monitoring practice is also based on the UN ILO Convention No 87 on Freedom of Association. This interpretation is thus confirmed in the supervisory practice and Finland has also ratified this agreement. With these words, I presented this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u276	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u277	Madam President! The motion for a law amending Chapter 21 of the Criminal Code proposes a change in the law which would prohibit the circumcision of male children without a medical basis. The content of the proposed law is that, for non-medical reasons, a male child 18 years younger than the age of the circumcision would be subject to a fine or imprisonment for a maximum period of one year, unless a more severe penalty is provided for elsewhere in the law. The company must also be punished. In the current situation, the circumcision of young children for religious reasons is legal, despite the fact that the act is a violation of the Finnish Constitution, the Criminal Code, the article of the European Convention on Human Rights on Personal Inviolability, as well as placing girls and male children on a gender-based basis and maintaining public support for religious differences. For the above reasons, making circumcision for a person under 18 years of age without medical grounds should be illegal. Mr President! As a preliminary ruling on the legality of boys’ circumcisions, the case of abuse is considered to be the case KKO:2008:93, in which the court ruled that the circumcision arranged for the Muslim boy for religious reasons was not unlawful. True, the Supreme Court acknowledged that circumcision, which irrevocably removes healthy tissue, constitutes interference with the physical integrity of the person concerned and, to some extent, as a cause of pain, would appear to satisfy, in principle, the external characterisation of an assault offence, either in its basic form or in its mild form. However, the court concluded that the religious, cultural and social reasons behind the circumcision of the boys were such as to justify the conduct of the accused person, despite the fact that, in principle, it fulfilled the external mark of abuse or at least mild abuse. Furthermore, the court considers that the religious interests of the child’s parents outweigh the personal integrity protected by Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, even though it stated from the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights that a relatively minor medical measure may constitute an infringement of fundamental rights if it is done without appropriate consent. Mr President! On the other hand, the circumcision of girls is interpreted as a serious abuse, according to Section 6 of Chapter 21 of the Finnish Criminal Code, as is also shown by the Supreme Court ruling KKO:2008:93. It is legally unacceptable for male and female children to be placed in a legal position in the assessment of the legality of circumcision performed on them. Article 7 of the Finnish Constitution guarantee each person the right to personal liberty, integrity and security. This paragraph of the Constitution is the universal foundation of a life of indivisible dignity and cannot be ignored by appealing to religious traditions or standards and thus allowing rituals such as circumcision to be performed on a small child. Article 11 of the Constitution As a guarantee of freedom of religion, from this point of view, circumcision for male children is an irreversible measure of problem. When a minor is underprivileged, he does not actually have the opportunity to exercise his freedom of religion, but circumcision is arranged in practice always by the will of the parents. A decision by the Supreme Court in 2008 can also be called into question in terms of the development of personal identity and commitment to the cultural community. The government should exercise restraint in supporting the individual’s religious beliefs by means of dispensations. Mr President! According to the Finnish Medical Association’s opinion on circumcision, circumcision for non-medical reasons is not a medical treatment or health promotion and is not part of the Finnish health care system. According to the Medical Association, for ethical reasons, a doctor cannot be obliged to carry out a religious ritual of no health benefit to the patient. The same statement also calls into question the use of public funds to finance religious practices by special groups. On the basis of the above considerations, the most sustainable solution would be to impose on a person under 18 years of age, for non-medical reasons, an illegal circumcision regardless of gender, which would require both the organiser of the circumcision and its performer to be sentenced to a fine or imprisonment. The aim of the Finnish State must be for religious communities to renounce religious circumcisions performed on minors and to give the individual a full age after gaining genuine freedom of choice for the practice of circumcision on the basis of their own convictions. In view of the above, I propose that Parliament adopt the following bill: In accordance with the decision of the Parliament, a new 7a§ will be added to Chapter 21 of the Criminal Code. read: Organisation of unmedical circumcision. Anyone who arranges or participates in circumcision for a person 18 years younger than the age of 18 years without medical grounds shall be condemned, unless a more severe penalty is provided for in the rest of the law to arrange for a fine or imprisonment for a maximum of two years without medical grounds. The company must also be punished.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u278	Madam President! Article 7 of the Finnish Constitution guarantee each person the right to personal liberty, integrity and security. Nevertheless, there are precedents in Finland where the Finnish judiciary has ignored the religious circumcision of male children. For some reason, Finland has not wanted to go separately in order to ban circumcision on non-medical grounds, although it is known that uncontrolled immigration will only lead to an increase in these cases in the future. There is widespread debate in Europe about the justification for the religious circumcision of young children from the point of view of human rights. International human rights conventions and the Convention on the Rights of the Child oblige those countries that are committed to these agreements to protect the integrity and health of children from harmful traditions. However, it now seems strongly that, in the name of religion and culture, some adult people are to be given the privilege of circumventing the important values of our society, one of which is the individual’s right to physical integrity. It is really irresponsible and wrong to put some children in a weaker position than other children here in Finland because they have been born into a religion and culture foreign to us Finns. Mr President! Non-medical circumcision is not just a surgical procedure; it is much more than that. After the procedure, circumcision of young children may cause a wide range of complications for children, such as bleeding, inflammation, swelling, soreness, unpleasant abrasions, and the following pains throughout life, not to mention the mental development of children and the problems of self-esteem, which at their worst may limit normal sexual development and lead to abstinence of sexual contact. The fact that circumcision is performed under sterile conditions by a doctor certainly does not mean that complications and other problems cannot occur. Mr President! Above all, the question is how we define children's rights and whether, if necessary, we can compromise on them. The question is whether the right of us adults to believe and cultural traditions is more important than the right of the child to physical integrity and an intact self-image. On social media, Facebook, there is a group of thousands of people, and these people have one thing in common: the feeling that they are not whole, because as a child they have been unjustly circumcised. Their community is aptly called "I am not meantful", meaning "I am not grateful". As a child, these people have been deprived of the right by their parents to decide what their body image looks like in their own eyes. They have been deprived of the right to feel whole, and this is unequivocally wrong. Mr President! Non-medical circumcision of male children is a clear and deliberate form of violence. All assaults against children must be subject to pure zero tolerance in Finland, and everyone who has committed and participated in the assault must be punished. No abuser may be placed in special protection and special status due to his cultural background, for example. I am therefore in favour of this initiative by Mrs Saarakkala aimed at criminalising the circumcision of children on non-medical grounds. It is extremely important that we here in Parliament make every effort to defend and protect those who are unable to defend themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u279	Madam President! Representative Saarakkala's bill represents the present. We live in Finland in 2016, and I find it completely incomprehensible that, because of some old religious rites, rites or beliefs, male children are mutilated, not to mention female children. In Finland, the Animal Welfare Act was adopted in 1996. Article 7 prohibits the cutting of the tails of dogs, and perhaps now is the time to come to the conclusion that there can also be a ban on certain cuttings of male children, especially before they can be asked for consent as to what would happen when they are 18. It will then be up to them to decide whether or not they wish to participate in these expenditures. There are thousands of religions in the world. It has not come to my attention that there the gods have taken any stand on this matter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u280	Madam President! I believe that Parliament should legislate in such a way that they affect all Finnish citizens as equally as possible. This highly supported bill, which is now in the referral debate, would correct this problem in order to ensure that boys and girls are treated equally. Female genital mutilation has already been criminalized in due course, yes. Now is the time to ban circumcision also for young children. The only exception to this is medical grounds only. Another good thing about this bill is that both the practicer of circumcision and the person involved in this ritual should be placed on judgment. I warmly support this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u281	Madam President! This bill proposes a change of law that would prohibit the circumcision of male children without a medical basis. I consider this initiative to be very important and also timely. One might even think that why such a law is not already in force in a civilized country called Finland. In today’s situation, the circumcision of young children for religious reasons is legal despite the fact that an act of character violates, among other things, criminal law. It is a matter of the personal integrity of a small boy and the manner in which he was committed clearly exceeds at least the mark of abuse. We adults should protect young children and not be in favor of mutilating them, whether they are part of a religion or not. A minor underprivileged son does not even have the opportunity to actually exercise his freedom of religion, but circumcision is in practice always arranged by the will of the parents, as stated in this presentation. Mr President! This change of law in the referral debate must be brought into Finnish legislation as a matter of urgency and the offender must be properly condemned. This amendment of the law is the only speech given in this referral debate by the people of Finland. Is it true that representatives of other parties are not interested in protecting young children? You would think that even those who talk about human rights in general would be able to make a noise and even make a loud noise on behalf of small boys.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u282	Madam President! Thank you for a very good debate. I have to say that sometimes quality replaces quantity, and at least in this debate it can be said, because the arguments are indisputable and good. And although the bill did not receive more than about 20 signatures, I would nevertheless appeal to the government and its ministers to bring this matter into legal order at last during this parliamentary term, because this has been on the parliamentary and government agenda before, but this is still the case for some reason. I hope that it will now be possible to rise above these cultural traditions and some other secondary causes and unequivocally put an end to this activity. It is quite remarkable that in this country there are decisions made, among other things, by the supreme law enforcement officers, which have found that some Christmas party at school is wrong and participation in it violates someone's human rights, but this country does not yet today get such irreversible physical action banned unequivocally, but only calls on them to be carried out in some garages and otherwise. That is a totally unacceptable argument if that line of reasoning were to be taken into account in any other context. That argument simply cannot go on; it is now time to change this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-02-11-ps-6.u283	Madam President! I'm sure everyone is worried about their children's health. Now we are discussing boys' non-medical circumcisions, on which Mrs Saarakkala has made a legislative initiative. The Greens' position on the question is that we hope and we have at the party meeting in 2012 to say that the first way to get rid of non-medical circumcision is by means of advice. If circumcision does not end with enlightenment, we must consider banning it by law, according to our party assembly. Instead, the initiative that the ban on circumcision should be promoted immediately fell in the vote at that time in 2012. In other words, I look forward to what this debate will lead to, and this concern has also been recognised in other parties.
