ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. In his letter of 20 June 2016 to Parliament, Carl Haglund has requested exemption from the mandate since 30 July 2016 in order to become Vice President of Sunshine Kaidi New Energy Group. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u2	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 11/2016 vp. The general discussion was closed at the meeting on 21 June 2016. The second draft amending budget will now be examined in detail. I would ask for amendments.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u3	Mr President! I accidentally sat down in Mr. Urplainen's seat and pressed his button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u4	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u5	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 21 June 2016. In the debate, Emma Kari Timo Haraka has suggested that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u6	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 21 June 2016. In the debate, Emma Kari Timo Haraka has proposed that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u7	President! I must have pushed the button too early. I meant to vote no, but I noticed that the vote did not register.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u8	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u9	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 21 June 2016. In the debate, supported by Mrs Sanna Marin, Eva Biaudet proposed that 2. the draft law is rejected. Katja Hänninen, supported by Mrs Biaudet, has tabled two proposals for statements, which have been distributed to the representatives on a multiplicity basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u10	First, we must vote on the adoption or rejection of the second draft law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u11	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the proposals for statements.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u12	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 21 June 2016. The conversation is with Satu Taavitsainen Katja The proposal, supported by trout, to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u13	The 8th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 10/2016 vp. Following a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with a maximum of 5 minutes of group speeches. Other pre-reserved speeches shall be taken in the order of the group statement and shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u15	Then let us move on to the round of group talks. It will be initiated by Mr Ala-Nissila. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u16	Mr President! We're living in a time of transformation. There is war in Syria and the problems in the Middle East have worsened. The situation in Ukraine and the invasion of Crimea have intensified the confrontation between the West and Russia. Immigration is testing Europe. The development of the Russian economy and the political risks of the international economy create uncertainty, which has long been increased by the British referendum tomorrow. The Centre points out that during the transition period, Finland has to take care of two things above all. First of all, there must be a foreign policy of stability and relaxation, with which Finland and its neighbouring regions are kept out of tension. Secondly, we need to put our economies and jobs in order fairly and ensure that our society remains as integrated as possible. During the last parliamentary term, Finland fell into increasingly serious economic, unemployment and debt problems. There were 100,000 more unemployed people in our country. There were no reforms. The then government was unable to make decisions or to implement effectively. The main task of the new central government strategic programme has been and will be to improve employment, secure services and put an end to debt. Although we still have problems to solve, solutions have been found in these big issues. Above all, Finland finally has a direction. A week ago, a historic competitiveness agreement was signed at the Prime Minister's residence in Summer Beach. It is estimated to create between 35,000 and 45,000 jobs. The regional reform of social welfare and health services is progressing. In the spring, the government decided to save EUR 4 billion for this parliamentary term. That is what we need to do in order to avoid the need in the future to include in the maternity package of every newborn child EUR 100000 of additional annual debt. Mr President! The competitiveness agreement has been and is a prerequisite for Finland's employment and economic transition. It creates competitiveness, increases confidence, stability and predictability. No other European country has been able to do this. Thank you, above all, to the unions and the Prime Minister. We now need to step up the employment and economic transition in cooperation. Firstly, investment in support of economic growth must be mobilised quickly. The Government has decided to invest nearly EUR 3 billion in roads, railways and other routes as well as telecommunications connections. Transport projects will stimulate the economy and improve employment, and where necessary, they still need to be brought forward. Secondly, improving employment and, in particular, the employment of young people and the long-term unemployed must be the top priority of the August budget line. Thirdly, we must continue to improve the conditions for companies to operate. One solution is entrepreneurship reduction, which is presented by the Centre for the most forward-looking implementation possible. Farmers, especially young people, who have invested in the premises, are in trouble. The Centre requires the government to continue to ease the difficult agricultural situation and to take a crisis financing decision without delay and at the latest after any EU crisis support is known. Fourthly, next year's tax cuts, especially in order to reduce labour taxation, can be increased to EUR 515 million if 90% of Finnish employees are included in the agreement. Fifthly, the reform of working life and the labour market must continue. In the new round of negotiations, in just over a year's time, the most important thing must be to improve employment. It succeeds with the Finnish model and local agreement by increasing cooperation. Mr President! The Government Programme's target of 110,000 jobs must be adhered to. According to Statistics Finland, the private sector now employs more than 40,000 more than one year ago. The more employment is improved, the more sustainable we can take care of the weaker parts of our society and keep Finland intact. Despite the savings, we have also been able to make improvements. For example, the guarantee pension has been increased and increased. The 300,000 lowest income Finns have been exempt from Yle-tax. Family and family day care is finally being set up. It is the government and Parliament that must stand up for Finns who do not have money-rich and strong interest groups to support them. President! The Centre supports the budgetary plan for 2017-2020. The rise of our country does not come from the outside. We cannot lift ourselves up from the hair, but a better future must be done by reforming and making arrangements and doing things. Finland must be put in good shape. Only then will we be able to cope well in a world that is becoming ever more demanding.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u17	Mr President! Finland is moving towards light thanks to the Government's determined measures. A lot of positive things have happened in the year. Sore spending cuts have been made or agreed upon. The pension reform has been approved. A competitiveness pact has been established. War and the dismantling of municipal tasks are progressing. Key projects will bring new growth. Docks get orders. Housing and other construction has accelerated. There is an historic investment in transport infrastructure. More laws have been dismantled than in previous decades. Much remains to be done. The government will not abandon the targets of 110,000 new jobs and 72% employment rates. Opposition, do you hear me? We're not giving up. We will continue to make decisions in spite of your objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u28	Madam President! Good fresh Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Finland’s economic situation will remain difficult in the coming years, although there have been signs of a better turnaround. Squirrel signs of a turnaround are not the same thing as a turnaround. The signs are not allowed to stop, but, on the contrary, the requirement to continue. It is clear that the government's plans for fiscal consolidation must be consistently implemented. The 4 billion level of adjustment to be made during the electoral period must be maintained and debt should be broken down as planned. In this way, we can guarantee confidence in our country’s ability to manage its own affairs. Employment is at the heart of everything. The current employment rate will not be able to finance the current-wide welfare society, education, health care and the necessary income transfers. That is why employment must be brought up while the development of public expenditure is kept under control. Much has been achieved. For example, the Competitiveness Pact is expected to create up to 35,000 new jobs. This is a worthy achievement. Above all, with the agreement, those who have a secure job will come. In the model chosen by the organisations, the larger load is borne by women-dominated workers in the public sector, such as teachers and nurses. Increasing local reconciliation was unfortunately watered down and missed out on non-organised companies. It would have been the most effective and free of all individual actions in the long term. Without a significant improvement in the functioning of the labour market, unemployment in our country will remain permanently high. It is absolutely necessary to return to this as soon as possible. The Employment and Entrepreneurship Package, published earlier in the spring, contains small but necessary measures to strengthen employment. The newly submitted proposal to extend the probationary periods, to facilitate time-limits and to reduce the obligation to take back should also increase the number of job opportunities. The Government Programme’s target of 72% of the employment rate and 110,000 new jobs is in place, but in order to be implemented they will require further action. The solutions adopted or agreed to date will not achieve this objective. New means must be agreed in the autumn budget debate, and the Committee on Budgets also encourages the government to do this. We have to work for it. The Committee on Finance commends the government's tax guidelines for growth, entrepreneurship and employment. In the opinion of the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party, it is one of the cornerstones of the credibility of the government's economic policy that the objectives mentioned above and the credible steps to achieve them should be adhered to. In the big picture, the Government’s picture of the situation and the broad policy line also receive the support of international economic policy assessors. Mr President! Finally, the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party wishes to pay particular attention to a few details. In breaking standards, deregulation, the coalition will continue to be a pioneer. We will be happy to continue to blackmail the government in this regard. The road to saving from education is complete. The Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party does not accept any further cuts in education. The Assembly's parliamentary group is concerned that there is a conflict between the internal security report and the decision on the spending limits. The development of the spending limits decision will lead to a fall in the number of police officers well below the level laid down in the Security Report, which is 7,000 police officers. It is necessary to require the government to resolve this conflict in such a way that the number of police officers can be secured. This is a matter of considerable importance for citizens' sense of security. The last point raised by the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party, which is of minor financial importance but of great importance in principle, is the funding for the rehabilitation of veterans of war. As we know, the number of veterans is steadily decreasing. This is repeatedly used as a basis for a reduction in rehabilitation appropriations. The argument is incorrect because the average age of veterans is 95 years and their condition is deteriorating. This will also increase the need for services. We consider it necessary that soon the 100-year-old Finnish honorary citizens should spend their remaining years with dignity, health and fitness. It is our duty and our honour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u29	Mr President! In the budget feedback discussion I quoted Professor Merete Mazzarella: "Work and love are the only real things in life, and it is not good if one is missing." After hearing the Government's spending limits policy, I'm beginning to suspect that this government is, after all, the closest government to the government of love. At least the government does not think that work is important, because there is no employment policy in the framework. The government speaks of a fragile half-percent economic growth as a sign of the fruits of its own work. But when you don't do anything, you can't expect anything. Let's be at the mercy of the market forces. At least someone is doing something: Let us thank the cooperative banks and President Reijo Karh. Last year, the debt write-off of cooperative banks has been more effective in terms of employment than all the government's tasks combined. The estimated growth effect of shortening-free national products is 0.4 per cent. Prime Minister Sipilä said when he announced the framework that the government will focus on employment in the future. So after a year of power, the government announces that it is doing something. Slow is the rush of the gentlemen, says the Finnish proverb. The Prime Minister said that employment measures will be taken in the August budget debate, i.e. only in August. However, 332,100 people are unemployed. And when you look at a real bunch of unworked people, you're almost half a million. What is the Committee on Finance doing when dealing with the framework? You have to rub your eyes when you read the report. Representatives of the government parties come to a head-blowing conclusion: 'There are no objections to the report'. There are no comments? In the autumn, Parliament still obliged the government to look resolutely at employment and to pay serious attention to social problems in order to halt the development of exclusion. Since then, in the new framework, the government has left out employment measures and cut the basic security – i.e. basic security – by EUR 200 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u32	Madam President! We are dealing with a budgetary plan for 2017-2020, and now is a good time to discuss the future of Finland's economy. The economy is about the life of everyone in Finland. When things are good in the economy, people have opportunities: You can find work for a graduate from a vocational school or college. Whoever's looking for a hundred jobs is finally getting a job. But when things are bad, hopelessness takes over: There's not enough jobs for everyone. The search for the scapegoats begins. We decision-makers are responsible for ensuring that the weakest are taken care of and that future prosperity is built on a solid basis. Instead of a hunt for sinners, we need a human economic policy. Ladies and gentlemen! The objectives of the budgetary plan are shared by the Greens. We too think it is a good idea to invest in competitiveness, employment and structural reforms. It is right that the budgetary plan should aim at breaking the growth of public debt and closing the sustainability gap, but — this is huge but — we do not agree with the government on the means of achieving these objectives. In its plan, the government plans to reduce expenditure. The problem with the government's thinking is that the measure of responsibility for the government is the size of the cuts and not the objectives achieved. The government forgets that cutting greatly results in a fall in consumer demand, which affects the income of companies and thus creates more unemployment, thus also endangering the control of debt. The Greens, on the other hand, propose moderate spending cuts, which are allocated in different ways.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u37	Madam President! Minister Stubb, who was responsible for preparing the budgetary plan, has run full marathons, as have I. After a quarter of an hour, the marathon still doesn't know if it's going to reach the finish line and whether the rest of the time is in line with the target. Sipilä’s reign marathon is well over a quarter behind, but we already know that the government will not reach its goal. It may be that further steps are being taken to remove the government from the route in the middle of the journey due to failure. The worst of all, the government has failed in managing employment. In this marathon it has started to run backwards, and now there is more to go than there was at the time of departure. Although unemployment rates have fallen, there are still thousands more unemployed job seekers than in the last year. According to the Bank of Finland, a 72% employment rate would require an average growth rate of 1.3 percentage points higher than the forecast. This isn't in sight. Employment will not improve unless economic growth is boosted and economic growth will not be boosted unless employment improves. Unemployment is a problem even greater than the debt of public finances, and denying this is the biggest mistake the government has ever made. The main cause of the failure to manage employment is the wrong policy of the government rather than external reasons, such as the international economic situation and structural problems. The Left Alliance does not doubt that the government has any desire to reduce unemployment. Instead, we claim that the reason for this failure is the wrong and under-imposed means, both in short-term employment measures, in longer-term solutions and in the basic line of economic policy. Employment appropriations, such as start-up money and wage subsidies, are again running out in the middle of the year. Neither the government has responded to this with this year's amending budget. The Government praises the transport package and the support for housing construction, but in fact the level of basic investment is not at the traditional spending limits level. For example, some 2 billion transport projects have traditionally been launched during the parliamentary term. Now only 764 million have been decided to launch them. However, I would like to thank you for providing basic infrastructure, for the implementation of the corrective debt programme and for the promotion of rail projects. Madam President! The main reason for the government’s failure to manage the marathon is the policy of cutting down on purchasing power, undermining the infrastructure of the welfare society, increasing inequality and jeopardising employment and economic growth in the longer term. In its report, the committee also notes that some experts felt that a more stimulating fiscal policy would lead to faster economic growth and, among other things, a reduction in unemployment-related expenditure. The targeting of adjustment measures has also been criticised and is estimated to over-decrease household purchasing power. In turn, the savings in knowledge have been seen to weaken growth in the longer term. The government is undermining productivity growth — productivity, which has been and will continue to be the main driver of economic growth. The Honorary Chairman of the Coalition, Ilkka Suominen, recently stated that the policy of the Coalition Party was too market-liberal. It is inconceivable that the city centre and the people of Peru should become involved in this most universal government policy of all time. Even the opportunities for social welfare reform, which is necessary for Finland and the public, are also sought by the Coalition Party at the altar of its market enthusiasm. The Coalition Party will not replace Sweden's bad experiences nor the warnings of Finnish experts about the dangers of freedom of choice in social and health services, i.e. increasing costs and increasing inequalities between citizens and regions. Wake up, ministers Sipilä, Soini and Orphan! Stop making too liberal a policy and start making the solutions that Finland and the Finns need. If you do not want to, be able or able to do so, stop your laborious marathons and make room for a more humane policy. The Left Alliance Parliamentary Group offers immediate measures to replace cutting policy and the dismantling of the welfare state in order to improve employment and a bold reform of the welfare society. The key elements of our reform programme are a broad investment programme, tax reform, the promotion of entrepreneurship, a high level of investment in skills and productivity, improving the status of workers, the parental leave system, a new, automatic wage support model, basic income social security reform and ecological reform of transport and energy tax. Madam President! Finally, I would like to express my support for the proposals for statements contained in protest 3 and for the six statements made by Mrs Viitane.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u38	Irade fru talman, Madam President! Svenska riksdagsgruppen förenar sig i regeringens ekonomiska lägesbild. Vi behöver en bättre sysselsättning, vi behöver ett upsping för vår export och vi behöver anpassa den offentliga economist. Men, vi kan inte omfatta regeringens åtgärder. Vi kan inte godkänna Massiva nedskärningar i utbildningen och biståndet eller en nedmontering av sjuchusnätet. I politiken är det alltid öjligt att läja annorlunda. Det handlar om värderingar. Det har visat i vår egen alternativa budget och vi kommer att visa det på nowt inkommande höst. Det är i sig bra att det så kallade kukurrenskraftsavtalet nu äntligen uppnåtts. Men vi måste kunna vara ärliga. Avtalet är en inkomstpolitisk uppgörelse, inte en historisk reform. En bra början alltså, men vi måste höja ambitionsnivån. Arbetsmarknadsreformerna måste fortsätta. Det finns inte andra utvägar. Företagen bör få ordentliga verktyg för lokala avtal, utkomstskyddet måste reserve mer sporrande och arbetsförmedlingen mer effecttiv.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u39	Madam President! Balancing public finances requires strict spending discipline and effective structural reforms. The Group of the European People's Party believes that this is necessary, but at the same time efforts must be made to create economic growth and confidence in the future. Mistargeted austerity measures by the government lead to the opposite result. Innovation and productivity growth cannot be achieved if, at the same time, education and research are cut. Employment cannot be improved by reducing investment in employment management. Farmers cannot be saved without the necessary and timely measures. The structures of the welfare society cannot be scrapped and sold if the welfare of all Finns is to be guaranteed. Mr President! The Board of Directors cuts child allowances and child care allowances, plans to increase the fees for day care and afternoon care, increases the number of day care groups and class sizes, and cuts the parental allowance and the right of leave accumulated during that period. The Government Programme has indeed set the objective of strengthening the well-being and resources of children and families and of developing school and early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u42	Next, Minister Orpo, no more than five minutes from that podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u43	Madam President! Good Parliament! First of all, thank the Committee on Finance for its good work and report, and thank the parliamentary groups for their good contributions. Today, an economic forecast has been published predicting an economic growth rate of 1.4% for this year. This is something to be pleased about. This is a long march, let it be a marathon, but we still have light in sight. We have great challenges, we still owe a lot of money, but we have light. Our economy has started to grow slightly, and we must do everything in our power to support this economic growth so that the situation in public finances and, above all, the employment situation in Finland can be improved, thereby strengthening our well-being and our faith in the future. Indeed, we specifically need faith in the future in Finland. We need faith in the future for entrepreneurs, for employers to invest, so that they dare to hire new people to get jobs. We need faith in the future for Finnish families so that they can build their future, think about getting a new home, for example. We need faith, and then we should also devote time in the opposition to the fact that the economy is starting to grow. Representatives, we constantly need more measures to improve employment. I am very pleased with the creation of a competitiveness pact, even though it did not fully meet the objectives set out in the Government Programme. However, it is a clear step forward: a solution has been agreed in society to estimate the creation of some 35,000 new jobs. At least on the basis of the front-row comments, this was not a good thing either, even though we have been able to find a broad-based solution of this kind. It is a very good thing that coverage is already in the order of 415 million tax reductions or, more importantly, blackmail compensation, and I was pleased to hear, among other things, in the speech of the Centre's parliamentary group, that the organisations still outside are being tightened up to join the Competitiveness Pact so that the 90 % threshold can be exceeded, so that the actual tax reduction, that is about 100 million, can also be implemented. The government has taken the right measures, steps in the right direction to achieve economic growth. I mentioned the competitiveness pact. We have made a good tax policy, and I will come back to that in a moment. At the beginning of next year, a package of entrepreneurial taxes will be prepared with a number of measures, including entrepreneurship reduction, payment-based VAT, improvement of the household allowance, which will help us improve employment and the situation of businesses. We have reduced the threshold for employment with the legislative package adopted last week by the government. But it is clear that more employment measures are needed, and we are currently preparing for the next budget debate in the autumn or at the end of the summer for more employment measures, because the goal of 110,000 jobs is one of the central objectives of the government and we need to do more. It's true it's a marathon. It's true we've made a quarter of the marathon. We have achieved clear results on the employment front, and we will do more so that we can be proud to finish the marathon. It is also a good thing that this is not about running alone; this is a team game, and even the baton can sometimes be changed — we get the strength of blood. A few comments: There was little light in the SDP's speech, no thanks for the actions that have clearly created jobs in Finland. But perhaps I should like to comment on this earlier debate on the taxation of pensioners, which was not possible before. So there is no increase in the taxation of any pensioners. It is true that there are no direct targeted tax reduction measures for pensioners, but I cannot understand why you, the Labour Party, are so opposed to reducing the reduction in the earnings of people on low and medium incomes. This is an ideological question for you. For me, it is a question of employment, and employment is the most important element of prosperity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u44	Here's what we're gonna do. And now there's a chance to sign up for the debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u45	Madam President! The budgetary plan is a plan on which the future of the welfare state will be built: what are the services and how are they financed? Whether the EUR 4 billion adjustment will make transfers of EUR 10 or even EUR 100 million will not have a decisive impact on the basis on which the welfare state will be planted. However, taxation of labour and additional debt are the most severe poison that would destroy this plan. It is therefore important that the plan is credible, reliable, balanced and more predictable and will enable investments, companies and jobs to come to Finland in the future. By adapting alone, this plan cannot be implemented, growth and more employment are needed. It is therefore important that this plan, which contributes to creating a basis for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u46	Madam President! It was really about the marathon race. Indeed, this international environment is now demanding. We have a Brexit vote coming up. We see that the European Central Bank's powder is starting to get wet. When the Member States do not make the reforms that should be done, monetary policy can no longer do anything. You spoke, Mr Uotila, of the Greek marathon. There was born this Varoufakis, a colleague of Minister Orpo in his day. It cost between 60 and 70 billion when he started to push for reforms. Now we see that the left-winger
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u49	Mr President! I expected constructive alternatives from the opposition, especially from the left and from the Green opposition, but there have been none, only principles, and the principles here do not save politics and Finland. Last season, the opposition under the leadership of the Socialist Minister for Finance, not the opposition at the time, but the government parties made it possible for the debt to be taken up to EUR 40 billion in absolute value on the taxpayers' side. Gross domestic product fell, unemployment rose, and competitiveness was completely lost.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u52	Mr President! No word from the Greens yet. Let's get back to that. But the competitiveness pact is very important for the future of our country. Above all, it shows a great sense of responsibility and responsibility for the future of our country from ordinary Finnish workers. The government has promised that in the future we will trust employees and employers more and more and will strengthen the possibilities for reconciliation in the workplace. I would like to ask you, Mr Orpo, the recent Minister for Finance, how will the government, after next year, promote local agreement to fill in the government programme?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u53	Madam President! Mr Finance Minister, when you came to the new task — congratulations on that — you said that you wanted to talk more about poverty. I thought it was a good thing, especially when the new group president in the centre also told me that we are now dealing with embryo. But now there is a small problem here, namely that I tried to look for some lines in this spending limits line with a magnifying glass, which would have spoken for the poor — quite the contrary, there are further cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u58	Madam President! Mr Orpo, if you are going to continue with the training cuts, why do you keep saying that you are not going to continue with them? You're cutting 200 million this year, 300 million next year. In a way, most of the training cuts will be in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u61	Madam President! Here both the Minister and the representatives of the government parties have emphasised consistency and credibility in their policies. A year and a half ago, in the run-up to the elections, the economic situation was not much more difficult than it is now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u64	Irade fru talman, Madam President! Sickness pensions and absenteeism mean a loss of 25 billion a year to society. This would be a huge opportunity to increase the productivity of our society much more than any competitiveness pact can now achieve. It is therefore regrettable that this issue has been left behind in the debate on the labour market. Improving well-being at work should be one of the most important key projects. I am glad that Mr Orpo, the Minister of Finance, before this debate, has received the recent report by Professor Guy Ahonen, and I very much hope that you will get to know it carefully. Finally, does the government intend to take concrete measures to improve well-being at work?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u65	Madam President! We heard from the recent Minister of Finance a list of the good achievements of the government, and I also welcome them — and it is true that the government has also succeeded in some things, and I thank the government for these successes. On the other hand, it should be humbly admitted that there are still things to do and weaknesses in our welfare society. Although Valvira, for example, has reported general mistreatment of the elderly in care institutions, the government accepts a further reduction in the number of care workers by reducing the current recommendation from 0.5 to 0.4 per patient. And I ask what measures the government intends to take to bring care of the elderly in Finland to such a level that there is no need to fear aging.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u66	Mr President, Mr Orpo, Minister for Finance! First of all, congratulations to the new Minister for Finance and on behalf of the opposition welcome to this Chamber now also as Minister for Finance. I did, however, welcome the fact that you were elected president of the Assembly, that you had a number of guidelines: you said that the government's working methods should be reformed and the middle class should be better taken into account, and that poverty should also be addressed not only in speeches but also in deeds. I noticed that the new group president in the centre also drew attention to the need to tackle poverty. This gave a lot of signal that this would now be a rhythm shift in government politics, and I had a lot of hopes. This middle class also includes, among other things, these pensioners, low and medium-income pensioners. And now the end result is that the government parties state that there is no comment on the policy that has not taken these into account, no middle class, no pensioners, the cancellation of early childhood education contributions has been cancelled.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u67	Madam President! When you listen to this debate on the budgetary plan and, in particular, the debate between the opposition and the representatives of the government groups on whether or not there are alternatives, it must be said that, in my opinion, on the basis of the parliamentary experience of just over a year, it is quite worthless nonsense to claim that the alternatives have not been presented. It's nonsense to say they don't exist.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u68	Madam President! When asked for information about the savings of the Greens in the case of the Greens’ group speaker, Mr Yanar, he said that there was a follow-up. At that point, I strengthened my hearing, but although I listened carefully to the end of Mr Yanar's group speech, I did not hear any specific savings that the Greens would save instead of rejecting the government's savings and making a lot of additional expenditure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u71	Madam President! The budget is always made one year at a time, and last autumn we have a size category of expenditure adjustment with an increase in revenue of EUR 311 million, an increase in expenditure of EUR 527.2 million, an impact on the budget of EUR 216.2 million more than the government version, but it has less negative elements for economic growth than the government version.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u79	Mr President! If we want to support growth by revitalising it, as the government apparently now wants, then increasing the amount of public investment is the most effective way of doing so, because then the multiplier effect will be the greatest of all. Of course, you can revive with tax reductions, but then these tax reductions must be carried out in a wise way. If, for example, the taxation of the average income is reduced, it will not go directly to consumption as surely as it is when the taxation of low incomes is reduced. Thus, if tax reductions are directed at high and medium incomes, there is a risk that these will mainly increase the deficit and not increase employment or purchasing power. It has therefore been the view of the Left Alliance that, if income tax reductions are made, they should be directed at all low-income Finns, for example, by raising the basic reduction in municipal taxation, which also leads to the problem of increasing the tax differential between the unemployed and pensioners and employees. That is what this is all about, how fair our citizens feel about our tax structure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u80	Mr President! I wish to congratulate Mr Orpo on his new, more demanding role. You did an excellent job for the Minister of the Interior, and I believe that there is a great deal of expectation here in the whole Chamber as to how you are going to deal with this new, even more demanding work. With great interest, I was obviously waiting for your maiden speech, which you gave a moment ago, and now I must say that the first speech was a disappointment. So there was talk of a new idea coming, and when I read your party speech very carefully, it was a very social spirit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u81	Mr President! Now, just under the summer break, this kind of gloom that has now been spread. Finland's direction is the right one, and Finland's direction has changed. There are already clear signs of this. In one year this government has reversed Finland’s direction — in one year. I admit that the transition is still ongoing and should continue, but that direction has changed since many years of recession and after long indebtedness. In this respect, I would like to thank the committee for having chosen such a responsible and stable line which supports this new direction. The direction is therefore the right one, and there is no viable alternative — see a viable, credible alternative — the opposition has been consulted on this new direction. Yes, you have suggested alternatives, but you did not believe in them yourself, so you yourself believed in them when you were in the government. You didn't do the things you promised now. We can now welcome the fact that the direction has changed at least. The target is not, there is not, the targets have not yet been achieved all that has been set, but the direction towards those objectives is now stable, and this report supports that direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u82	Värderade Talman! Sometimes it is good to stop a little and think about why different balancing measures are needed. The reason is in all its simplicity that exports are not doing well enough and new industrial jobs have, according to Statistics Finland, practically been born in the energy cluster of Vaasa over the past ten years. All policy decisions, including a social solution, have a direct link with the business environment, the promotion of exports and thus the creation of new resources and jobs. The value of exports in Ostrobothnia is five times higher than the total of the least-exported, including in euros. 30 per cent of the country's technology exports abroad are exported from Vaasa. These billions, Minister, maintain many services of state administration, provinces and hospital districts. Surely, Minister, it is not the case that the government is taking reforms and savings through without analysing and mirroring the measures in relation to the most important of all, namely the conditions under which the export industry operates?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u83	Madam President! Family policy plays a crucial role in closing the sustainability gap on the one hand and improving the dependency ratio on the other. I was pleased to note that when you, Minister Orpo, gave your first speech as chairman, you took a stand not only for the underprivileged but also for the middle class. I would like to ask, therefore, when you now have a proposal in the government that the fees for day care should be increased, which is precisely what should discipline middle-class families: for the family of two children in day care, these costs would rise by more than EUR 1,300 a year. This is also an incentive trap for many who are thinking of returning to work on maternity leave or parental leave. Could you now — to give everyone a good summer holiday — promise that the increase in daily care fees will be completely withdrawn, not only to consider next autumn, but will be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u84	Madam President! The Government's report on the budgetary plan is a responsible document and shows that, in this difficult economic situation, the government is seeking an adjustment of EUR 4 billion to the economy, determinedly and decisively seeking to improve the employment rate. That objective from 68 to 72 is absolutely necessary, because we all know that only by raising the employment rate will the state finances and public finances be restored to the condition that we can take care of all the people in this society and the needs that we all have. To the Greens, I could say that there is also a decision that there will be no new cuts in education and training, and this is very important in terms of education, research and product development. But it's not like everything's okay. In that hearing of the Committee on Finance, it was very clear that exports are the ones through which Finland is rising and employment is rising. And we still have a lot of work to do in the marketing of exports. Our marketing training is not on the level that we can manage in that world with our good products. We need better marketing and know-how in it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u85	Madam President! The last speech was, once again, a rather large-scale speech. It was said that we would not be cutting more, even though we are cutting out of education once again. And in a way, there's another option. So you're saying there's going to be more cuts in education? We didn't know about this. In addition to the record training cuts, were new measures planned? If so, this too is a surprise. If not, it is also wrong to say that there will be no further cuts in education because you are cutting more.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u86	So many questions have now come up that the Minister for Orpo should be given five minutes. — Here from the podium, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u87	Thank you, Madam President. It is good that speeches are read and also, when they are written, they are done seriously. I believe that the whole government shares the objective of working towards reducing inequality in Finland, reducing income inequalities, taking care of the poorer and disadvantaged. It is certainly the objective of every single government party in this government, but one of its central foundations is a healthy economy. This requires competitiveness, jobs, employment, economic growth and sound public finances. Healthy public finances require, as an urgent measure, that we make spending adjustments, cuts of EUR 4 billion, which are a tough target. It was defined at the latest in the Government Programme negotiations. If I remember correctly, the majority of the parliamentary parties were not so fast ahead of the elections, but when we looked at that frame, it was clear that this should be done faster and at this rate if we want to break the debt, and it is absolutely essential to break the debt. We cannot leave debt and growing debt to future generations. It is one of the very key elements of sustainable policy and cuts will then have to be made. Congressman, these aren't even record savings. The records were made last season. You were in on it. 850 million direct cuts to education and education. 850 million. Here again, we can cry endlessly about cuts, but it is thought that EUR 3.1 billion will be spent on higher education, universities and research this year, and last year, before these cuts, it was 3.2 billion. Yes, 100 million is a lot, but 3.1 billion is a great deal. At the moment, the government is working to ensure that this money is spent more efficiently and better, so that we can achieve economic growth, jobs, innovation, and that everyone should be involved and see this good too. As regards this policy in general and how to take into account the impact on the everyday life of so-called ordinary Finnish people, I think it has been a very good principle that the government should introduce such a household impact assessment more often and more often when decisions are made: what is the impact on the everyday life of a normal person? I think this is a natural way, and we need to find a good way to assess this. This brings us to these early childhood education fees. This matter has now been stopped in committee, and we now have until the budget debate to find a more sensible model, while we still know from this that the municipalities will hardly introduce these increases in payments, so that the additional income will not come to fruition. I think it makes perfect sense for this to be assessed. Be patient, we will return to this issue in the autumn and see what kind of solutions we can find. Here, too, the other side is that the proposal that is in Parliament will lead to a reduction in the lower child care fees. For poverty — when it was not found: EUR 20 has previously been increased, now EUR 8 has been raised, i.e. even in a very difficult situation a small hand extension has been made. I know that this does not build the world, but a small hand extension in a very difficult situation. Even then, the tax treatment of pensioners. No pensioner has been subject to increased taxation, not one. If you look at a big picture, you can say that it is on average at the same level as the employee. But I dare to defend the fact that we want more money to be left in the hands of the low-income and middle-income earners, especially the low-income ones. It promotes employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u88	Mr President! First of all, it must be said to Group Chairman Terho and others who have spoken about this turn of events and have been admiring this, so it comes to mind the old saying that 'there are always branchers when there are tree fellers'. In fact, on this basis, the rise that we are seeing today is thanks to the Osuusbanki Group and Mr Karhinen, who has offered these reductions, which has led to an increase in private consumption, which, according to statistics, is behind this rise — and good — and we welcome it, as we are also pleased with the agreement reached by the social partners, and we have now provided the government with these means. Mr President! As I said, high expectations did come in for a review of the policy of the government, particularly for these middle-income pensioners. But that was like a straight line from Stubb’s speech that no pensioner’s taxation was tightening. And now you have said that you are proud of this decision, which puts pensioners on an unequal footing. What does Mr Zyskowicz think of this, are you proud of this line? Of course, tax reductions belong to low- and middle-income employees, but they also belong to pensioners who have earned them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u89	Mr President! There is a respect for that kiky agreement here, and well, it will become predictability and stability in the labour market, but there is also a downside. First of all, it was very questionable how it was born, and, as I said in the interlude, it was in the face of blackmail and pressure. It exports purchasing power, which, according to the forecasts of the VM, will lead to an economic growth of only 1% next year, compared with an increase of 1.4% this year. And when I referred to productivity in my own speech, I ask what the importance of well-being at work lies in the fact that burdened workers who work hard are forced to work long hours without pay and, in addition, a third of the holiday money is cut on the public side. From the point of view of motivation, well-being at work and hence productivity, this can have very negative implications. And I would ask Mr Orpo and the whole government to take this into account. When we talk about the labour market, there are many dimensions to its operation and logic.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u90	Mr President! Indeed, Finnish production and work must have competitiveness in the world and in Finland. That is why it is important that the social pact is in place in order to get exports going. Mr President! It has been said here that why the opposition has not put forward any realistic alternatives. That is not what I think can be said when the economy has fallen for three years in a row, it is still not at the 2008 level, so there are no major alternatives to this shrinking economy. We have to, if we're saving up, be in two major classes. When I look at these alternative budgets, the Greens have an unrealistic growth rate, very small, 10 million options. The SDP has this robbery of Sitra's moss and so on. They are not real alternatives. It is a good thing that we try to make alternative budgets, but, as Mr Kalli said, this biggest picture is not by transferring 10 million to one side or solving the other.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u91	Mr President! Here Mr Uotila and Mr Lindtman have reproached the government for having forgotten its election vows, for making drastic cuts in education and among pensioners. But now I have to refresh my memory. In the last parliamentary term, was there not a cut of EUR 1.7 billion for the educational and cultural aspects of the plans, which were also partly carried out for this parliamentary term? But you did these same tricks that the government has been forced to do now that the money is gone. And then, if we go further into these details, I went over the latest three electoral programmes of the Social Democrats at the beginning of this parliamentary term. And in each of you, you promised jobs and pensioners manna. What happened during the last parliamentary term? We lost 100,000 jobs. You have not managed to keep that promise in the past and you have not wanted to have the indexation of pensioners in any parliamentary term, so there is an unreasonable populism.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u92	Mr President! There will be no new savings in education on top of the educational savings already agreed and announced in the government. It is an important principle and it is good that it is adhered to. The Greens just told us about tax adjustments, but there was very little savings. Mr Yanar, you have just said that those savings come from the back. In the run-up to the last election, you put forward a motion for the deletion of the private doctors' Kela allowance. When it was presented by the STM task force, you began to oppose it: Emma Kari raised the battle flag, said no. Mr Niinistö replied that this would not happen. Now, however, you, Mr Yanar, are responsible for the economic policy of the Greens, and I ask you whether you are in favour of abolishing Kela payments, as you did before the elections — excuse me, last autumn?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u93	Mr President! We have answered these questions a thousand times as to whether we have an alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u98	Mr President! There have been countless requests from the Greens for proposals that mean savings in government spending. You have said that some of the balance is handled by tax evasion. But I understand that you're still doing the bulk of it with government spending savings. These spending savings have not been heard. I have said that you should now name the nine most important ones, because you have previously named this reduction in kilometric compensation, which would be a small saving for the state and municipalities, more for private companies. Well, the concrete cost savings have then been this removal of Kela payments from private doctors, which you presented as the only party in your alternative budget last autumn. When the STM working group then presented this savings you proposed, you started a mad campaign against this savings proposal, and now Mrs Aalto announced that it would be in effect. Emma Kari and Ville The women have told us that they are against it. I wonder which one is now around 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u99	Mr President! The alternative budget is in place. I address my question to the Minister for Finance, Orpo, with whom it is a pleasure and an honour to have a constructive and good debate, unlike the other direction on the side. According to the ad, the assembly has ears that listen. Has the new Minister of Finance perhaps heard and prepared to listen to academic economic research, which, among other things, repeatedly states that extending structural reforms to the business support system and to subsidies which are harmful to the environment would make sense, since it will enable the additional euro to be allocated to key new public investment and, in the event of high unemployment and low interest rates, it will be particularly justified to carry out these major public investments, which will in any case be undertaken at a later stage? The IMF and the OECD have also made recommendations for public investment in this period.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, the real focus of the recent period of debatation was lost, moved on to another theme. That is why I will not give the floor to the theme that has now been raised, but will move on to a whole new one.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u101	Now, Mr President, let us also move on to a new species. Congressman Uotila was talking about the marathon. I'll take the more topical, the football. I will raise two points. Unemployment: Youth unemployment has increased significantly. Long-term unemployment has risen by 20,000 out of 125,000. What does the government do? In practice, nothing if this kiky agreement is left out — a goal for the opposition, from 1 to 0. Secondly, poverty, the position of the middle income. There is nothing in your long-term presentations — another goal for the opposition. It's 2-0 now. You're under observation now, Minister Orphan. I'll give you a yellow card for your accomplishments, and then we'll evaluate the early fall when the budget comes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u102	Reply, Mr Heikkinen. — — — — I offered Mr Heikkinen, who had asked for it earlier, a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u103	I'm sorry. I didn't hear this noise. – I do not know how to put it, Mr President, this, which goal will be played then, when at this stage such things are claimed. The government is certainly not doing these cuts because of the bullying. The SDP also understood the need for cuts in its own electoral programme, which required savings of EUR 2 billion immediately and prepared for additional cuts of EUR 1 billion in 2007. This kind of talk at this point seems to be quite an exhibition if this is taken to this current theory of football. But I would still like to thank the government, the Prime Minister and all parties for bringing that competitiveness pact to fruition. Its impact on the real economy will be delayed, but both citizens and foreign countries believe that Finland will cope with its economic problems. It's had an immediate effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u104	Mr President! This opposition-government football match ends with the victory of 4 to 2 governments. The government has succeeded. It is precisely so that the economy is growing by 1.4%. Now we've got a handicap, we're in a 1 to 2 situation. We have some good news about employment. As we have heard today, trades have been made at Rauma Shipyard, there are 1000 additional man-years of work: 2-2. And as far as poverty is concerned, there are others here who have spoken of poverty other than Minister Orpo. It is an important issue for the whole government, and the basic income experiment is one that tackles the fight against poverty. Now we're in charge, three to two. When we're talking about the marathon, let's put this marathon in this football. Now we've run like that 10 kilometers. Now is the time for energy refuelling, and Kiki was the energy refuelling: 4 to 2 at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u105	Mr President! Unfortunately, Mr Orpo, your line of surgery is feeding off the future. Savings are not an end in themselves, but savings seek to balance the economy. Unfortunately, the effectiveness of the savings has not been clarified, and as a result we do not have precise information on what these savings you make will cause, for example, 10 to 20 years from now for children and young people. Minister, why do you weaken the most vulnerable young people by cutting their employment budgets, specifically pay subsidies from municipalities and organisations? You have transferred pay subsidies to companies, and we know that these young people are not employed by them. Now this surgery is causing it — when you cut off organisations and municipalities and, therefore, the workshops and detective youth work —
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u106	Värderade Talman! On several occasions, Mr Yanar raised the issue of energy tax refunds, of refunds to energy intensive industries amounting to around EUR 200 million, without producing any competitive advantage according to the VATT report. Is this in your palette when you try to balance the economy? For example, this year's sum could remove all this year's training cuts. The second question concerns Winterfell. Your predecessor, Mr Stubb, said that this half a billion, which is likely to go to it, should be taken from somewhere. That means more savings. Have you checked where these savings will then be taken from?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u107	Mr President! When Mr Gustafsson here took up the role of judge and handing out yellow cards, I would like to say to this football theme that in the last parliamentary elections the voters handed out a red card to the SDP. On this basis, the government has been built in this country so that we can get Finland to rise. These 121 opposition statements and increases in expenditure are incomparable miscalculations. In card games, Mr President, those peckings would be bluffing, they would mean bankruptcy in companies, but here in Parliament, the increase in expenditure is being repeated in the hope of an increase in political support. Fortunately, we have a responsible government and economic policy will continue, regardless of staff changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u108	Mr President! Here Mr Turunen referred to the Competitiveness Pact as an energy refuelling. However, according to the economic forecast published today by the VM, the competitiveness pact weakens public finances in the short term, and also cuts economic growth when it cuts the purchasing power of the employee. I'd say that's kind of a special energy tank. I would like to ask Minister Orpo: we have heard on several occasions now that the government's first objective is to improve employment, and I think that everyone agrees that it is the only way to balance public finances. Why, then, have all the measures taken by the government with regard to early childhood education been in complete conflict with the primary objective of this government? Is not the employment of women and the employment of women important to this government? You have limited the subjective right to day care, you have increased the group sizes of early childhood education, and you have also made a proposal to increase early childhood education fees. Why is the primary objective of this government not reflected in any way in early childhood education policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u109	Mr President! A reasonable success in ministerial duties, as one would say. Much has been said here about the importance of the competitiveness pact, and it is true that it will be the most important economic and employment policy measure in the course of the year. But it has been done by the social partners. The contractual society has worked, and here things have been put back to the negotiating table and to the table of agreement. It is a big change in principle in the intentions that previously existed. This also applies to local settlements. It has made very significant progress through the agreement if you read these agreements, and in the future there will also be no law of coercion from above for local agreement. You agree, Minister, that the general tenacity of the agreements should not be broken. Even the government program does not provide any basis for this. In the rules of local agreement, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are not part of employers' organisations, would have had the same opportunities for local agreement as organised employers, but would not have been good enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u110	Once again, Mr Paloniemi and Mr Essayah, and then Minister, briefly speaking from the point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u111	Mr President! You would think that the development of informal care and family care would be of interest to the opposition, as there have been so many lists of what is being cut out here, but please note now, for God's sake, this is the most important reform of social services during this period. In its size class, the government's annual investment in the development of informal care and family care is more extensive than, for example, the implementation of the entire Act on Elderly Services during the previous term of the Government. It is a very significant investment, and you know perfectly well how much money is needed on that side right now. At its best and maximum, the investment is close to EUR 100 million per year from 2018, and now we have about 50 million for this purpose. I regard this as an historic improvement, among other things, in improving the status of family carers, which has been spoken of in this Chamber for as many times as I have been in the house, three ways and more. So this is the way forward, and it is worth noting these good things now in these government measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u112	Reply to Mr Essayah. Then I will give the floor to the representatives of Lindtman, Heinonen and Niinistö, and the focus would be on this competitiveness pact, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u113	Mr President! Here Mr Turunen raised the question of the government's basic income experiment, which of course is intended to make it easier for a low-income person to take up work, and the recent finance minister also put this issue at the very centre of the government's work. However, it now seems that this model chosen by the Board of Directors for the basic income experiment based on the Kela report is precisely one that may even exacerbate these incentive traps. I understand from what Mr Vehviläinen has said that you too have an interest, or at least he would have an interest in it, to wait until we have such a national income register, which would allow us to try out better models of this kind, such as the model of the Christian Democrats' encouraging foundation. I would like you to shed some light on what is going on with this basic income experiment at the moment. I have read in the papers that there is a very small sample planned for the study, which may in itself water down the results of the study as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u114	Mr President! It has now become clear that the Competitiveness Pact and Karhinen's decision to introduce short-term leave have been the most important financial decisions of the last year in Finland, and government measures are still awaited. I would say to Ross and Heikkinen that those words in football terms would not even make it to the opening lineup. The SDP has put forward an option with less debt. When I drew attention to the fact that Rossi here was afraid that nothing was going to change, and when I noticed that the new group chairman, who unfortunately is not here at the moment, said that now the government needs to turn the line more in an embryo-oriented direction, and when I can't find a poor person here with a magnifying glass, it is quite an essential question, Minister Orpo. You have set hard targets: reducing poverty, defending the middle class, reforming the government’s working methods — well, that has already happened — and then this issue of pensions. Minister, could you tell us where this new line is now reflected in government policy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u115	Reply, Mr Heinonen and then Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u116	Mr President! Representative Aalto of the Greens confirmed that the private doctors' Kela allowances will be removed if the Greens take over. Then why are you acting completely different in social media? There Mr Niinistö and Mrs Kari say that the Greens are against this. In football, it would become a yellow card: unsportsmanlike behavior.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u119	One more response, Mr Niinistö and then Minister Orpo.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u120	Mr President! I entertained some hopes, together with the university staff and the educational staff, that the government's line could change from this civilised hatred. But I have been very disappointed that, when you, Minister Orpo, have said that there will be no more cuts in education, that means that, in addition to what has already been decided, there will be no cuts in spending limits. But there are almost one billion class cuts from education in the years to come, and they are really heavy for our higher education system, product development and research, students and also there on the early childhood education and comprehensive school side. That is why, Mr President, I would like to hear from the Minister how you see that the hope should now be given to investing in science and research in Finland and that there is room here for top scientists to go abroad now and consider this speech to be an insult, because the cuts will continue under your leadership. Then I would also like to ask whether you are aware that EUR 100 million was transferred to a separate research programme in the course of the cuts in student aid and that the cuts in student aid were accelerated.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u121	And now to the minister for two minutes. I believe that you will find the core issues that you will answer in that time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u122	First of all, at the moment I have been a finance minister for five hours, so that poverty has not yet been eradicated from Finland, This competitiveness pact is one of the key elements in this process that has now been achieved. We need to do more. The Government respects the Competitiveness Pact and its details. The term of government is three years, and of course we need to consider whether we can promote and promote local agreement when the section of the competitiveness agreement is over. It is central to the government's efforts to make the labour market more flexible and agreeable, but this issue will be returned to in peace. More employment measures are being prepared for the budget debate, but so much is in the pipeline: there is a large package of infra-investments on the move to support housing construction, urban development. The entrepreneurial tax package, in which some of the measures are starting to start from the beginning of next year, will be further prepared. These legislative proposals relating to the reduction of the employment threshold, which left the government last week, are very important, and we hope that more jobs will be created through these. So much is being done all the time, much is showing signs of improvement, and it is just that if we want to get rid of this cycle of cutting, then we need to achieve economic growth. Representative Niinistö: I cannot promise that the austerity decisions taken will be withdrawn, because we have to hold on to that 4 billion. But instead, we have to do everything we can.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u123	Responses from representatives of the Filatov, Kankaanniemi and Hautala, and from there continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u124	Mr President! There are always three main points in the balance of the economy: what happens in terms of income, expenditure and what happens in terms of growth and employment. Employment also has domestic markets and exports, and action must be taken in all these areas. But for the second time you have referred to the fact that the government has taken further steps to reduce the employment threshold. Is that what you mean by "changes in the contract law"? If you mean, that is a rather strange concept, because what is done in that law is that it facilitates the dismissal threshold by three different instruments. It makes it possible to change employees, but it does not provide any relief for more workers to be hired, but makes it easier to get rid of them. But perhaps we have a different view, in the assembly and in the Social Democrats, of how to lower the employment threshold. The problem is that there is no reference to it in the explanatory statement of that law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u125	Mr President! The opposition raises the details, and they are of course important and painful in terms of cuts and taxation, but it is extremely important at a time when the four-year plan for public finances is being discussed to see what the big lines are. And the government has agreed in the first year, has brought it to Parliament and has been decided, with an advance adjustment of EUR 4 billion. It's done. This is a very important issue in order to put the economy in order. Secondly, work life and entrepreneurship have been promoted and reformed. It is a package for entrepreneurship and employment and is particularly important for kiky, and they are moving forward and becoming a reality. Then there is the third major long-term change: structural reforms, social protection and so on, which create sustainability in the long term. We need to take this whole thing into account. It's in the government program.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u126	Mr President! The budgetary plan is a paper that is strongly aimed at the future and that Finland would be an increasingly better country to live and live in. The key is more employment: 110,000 jobs are the government's objective and the Competitiveness Pact helps to achieve it. It is very important that our country and our export companies should be increasingly competitive in terms of exports, and the recent positive news, including the shipping order today, Rolls-Royce's investment in Rauma, is all significant. According to Statistics Finland, there have been 40,000 more jobs in the private sector in Finland than one year ago, and there are opportunities, as long as companies are targeted at activities that improve the conditions for entrepreneurship,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u127	At this stage of the debate, I will give the last speech to the user of the group statement by the largest opposition group, Mr Viitane, and then the Minister's brief comment, he will have to leave.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u128	Mr President! That's the problem. The government's been playing that football with a little weird tactics for a year now. Because it's been shooting at its own — it's been shooting at its own for a year. And what's the result? The result is that unemployment rates have deteriorated, the number of long-term unemployed is 19,500 higher than one year ago. This weak economic development is mainly thanks to OP Karhinen. It can't go on like this. And we had hope for that change of line because Petteri Orpo and Antti Kaikkonen, for example, appealed to Alchio, and today, unfortunately, it has come to light that there is no change of line. It was not found with a magnifying glass in the current papers, but it was not promised by the new finance minister in his own speeches. And, as has been said, it was a little confusing that these speeches were exactly the same — one could look for phrases in the previous minutes — as was the case with Mr Stubb. In that regard, this new line was now a kind of a slump.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u129	Minister Orphan, on site in one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u130	Mr President! I'm afraid I'm about to have to leave. We are the same government, the same government program, the same popular movement. In politics, nothing changes in the blink of an eye, but we have to have our values right. These objectives must be in order for us to achieve what we are trying to achieve, and I am absolutely convinced that this government has no other objective than to improve the employment situation, to get as many people of working age and able to work as possible. In this debate, too, the structural reforms of the public sector, which are absolutely necessary for their part, have been very limited, because the money, the billions that we spend on our important welfare services — education, social and health services and the infrastructure of the welfare society — must be used much more effectively. I am still on my way today to negotiate the reform of social security and regional government, and I have a strong belief that this reform will move forward and we will find a model that will strengthen our carrying capacity in the long term, sustainability by 3 billion, which is the goal. I am absolutely convinced that we will find a model that will make freedom of choice a fine model for the individual, but it will be done in such a way that we take good care of taxpayers' money. It's going to be a good model. It's the best model for the individual and the patient. We do a good job in the government, but we have to push more because Finland is not yet — although the light is visible — in the position it should be. More Work
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u131	And let's get back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u132	Mr President! Firstly, on football, I hope that we are all on the same Finnish team, where opposition parties are currently on the bench. In that sense, it is extraordinary to keep yelling at the airport that the wrong game is played when you're on the same team in the end, but of course constructive suggestions are accepted. I am surprised that Mr Niinistö once again said that this government would be civilised. Let's take a look at the facts. Are we now cutting 10% of education, 20%? No, Economics 20/2016: This year we cut 3%, or EUR 54 million. The total funding of universities is EUR 2.1 billion for the state. In four years, central government funding will fall by 6 per cent, or EUR 134 million. Central government funding is still 4% higher than in 2010. It is difficult to understand how such actions would make the government civilist, let alone civilist,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u137	Mr President! I imagine that Minister Orpo did not get out of that much, because it would now be important to discuss taxation because Mr Roope Uusitalo, President of the Economic Council, criticised this budgetary plan for almost excluding taxation from the toolbox. Minister Stubb kept saying, "No one's tax is going up." Unfortunately, there is still no tax policy. Tax cuts, such as those now promised to private companies such as law firms, will only further weaken public finances. Tax policy is not a relief for various interest groups, but also a collection of income. One step is a financial tax. Denmark has had a financial tax since the 1990s. The Swedish Government is in the process of enacting a banking tax law. It's already in the consultation. Nordic cooperation, a Nordic bank tax, would bring Finland an estimated EUR 230 million. We should have the answer from Minister Orpo: would 230 million be good enough for sound public finances?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u138	Mr President! I would also have liked Minister Orpo not to have left, and I would have asked him for a moment to consider the impact of unemployment on the everyday lives of a normal person and his immediate circle. In many cases, it is a long stretch of a penny and the feeling of worthlessness when there is no work to be done. That is why I find it amazing that the government has completely neglected the management of employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u141	Mr President! Various options have been examined in this debate to improve the situation in Finland. One has, in my opinion, been overlooked, and that is to make export trade work in this country. In the future, Finland’s economic growth will depend to a large extent on whether we can make trade abroad work. We all know that the trade in Russia is stuck for certain reasons, and many other things are stuck with the fact that we are in unhappy circumstances. But quite a few things, ladies and gentlemen, will depend on how we put our own competitiveness in order. The competitiveness pact is of the highest importance in this area. That line must be maintained, and the government is on a very good path in this regard, and I hope that the facts will be taken into account in this debate. It is true that we have to cut and scale the economy — revenue according to expenditure and vice versa — but if we go down the road of thinking that without foreign trade and export trade this country will survive, that is false information. Yes, we must increase foreign trade and export figures,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u142	Mr President! I must say that I am very disappointed with Mr Orpo, disappointed that he left this debate, but above all that he did not answer the simple and clear question I put earlier in that debate: if the government's first objective is to improve employment, why is this not reflected at all in early childhood education policy? There are several solutions that have been made, which in particular weaken and make it difficult for women to find employment, according to all expert judgements. In this regard, the Minister replied that the government was seeking to promote employment, inter alia by facilitating redundancies and infrastructure investments. I believe that this is a blind way of looking at employment. We have, among other things, a report published by the Government last year stating that the effectiveness and importance of public services, such as early childhood education, is even greater for women's employment and labour supply than income tax reductions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u143	Mr President! I could join Mr Andersson in his excellent speech and ask questions, which is why the government does not make a policy that improves the position of women in the labour market. The government is always talking about improving employment,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u146	Reply, Mr Henriksson, and then Mr Korhonen, of the Government Party.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u147	Mr President! We're talking about something important here. I agree with the previous speakers that the position of women in the labour market needs to be improved. And here, as Mr Andersson said, the government has a blind corner. We do not see the need to reform family leave and to allow young women to join us. But, Mr President, as Mr Hoskonen said, exports must be withdrawn. And we also know that education, research and innovation are the key issues so that in future we will have new products on the market that we will be able to sell. That is why these cuts in education are so damaging, and that is why the government should take a turn here. But today, Mr President, the think tank Agenda has published its report Better working life — a better economy. The government should look into it now, because there we will give you the opportunity
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u148	Mr President! The debate here is sensitive to the debate and criticism of these individual savings, but the representative The Kankaanniemi quite rightly pointed out this big picture, which means that the government is trying to go three ways. Unfortunately, we have to make these unfortunate savings, we also have to make very major structural changes, the very necessary structural changes, of which of course this reform of social welfare and health care is one of the most important, and the third is that we are seeking these large, significant elements of growth, of which, of course, this competitiveness pact is perhaps the most important. It may, at present and in the future, reduce domestic demand, but it is precisely to address our main problem of improving the conditions for exports. In addition, the government has made important employment and entrepreneurship packages, deregulation of standards, very large infrastructure packages and so on, and efforts are constantly being made to keep the tax balance unchanged. So I think the government is making the right policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u149	Mr President! The government has rightly argued that labour productivity must be improved, but in some places the government's means are very questionable. For example, on the side of elderly services, the government has decided to increase the burden on nursing staff by further lowering the personnel size of elderly services. After the government has withdrawn previous bad proposals, perhaps this too would be the place to cancel. During the last term of government, the government of the six parties maintained a zero tolerance policy for under-estimation of the personnel of the elderly services and it worked, the situation improved considerably. Now, unfortunately, the minister is not here to answer. I would have asked him if he knew what the situation was now. Indeed, there are very alarming messages from the field that the zero tolerance that was achieved in the last period and the improvement in the situation of elderly services has now deteriorated considerably. Perhaps from the government parties, for example, Mr Juvonen, who is often a member of elderly services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u150	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen and many others have raised a very important issue here: employment is very high on exports. But we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that Russia's sanctions and Russian sanctions have collapsed, thanks to our exports to the East and these sanctions, our trade with Russia has collapsed in such a way that it has fallen down by 44 % in a downward spiral, while the father of these sanctions, the Yankees, has increased market share in Russia from 2.9 % to 4.1 % during these sanctions. There is now a debate in Europe on whether this escape efficiency from Russia is fair or not. I would like us to have this debate in Finland, too, in such a way that these Russian sanctions can be negotiated with the EU and bilaterally with Russia, however, gradually to go stripping.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u151	Mr President! Here the SDP's Harakka has just made claims that the Economic Council has recommended simply raising VAT or, let us say, raising taxes. But it was precisely there that it was said that the focus could be shifted to the VAT side. And this one eats especially domestic purchasing power. What is the second point from the comments made by the SDP is that new taxes, financial market taxes and other taxes are being tailored here immediately, which in themselves vaccinate growth, and it is in no way sensible to tailor new taxes. The Greens here claimed that cuts in education will somehow collapse the level of Finnish research. This is not necessarily true either. They're not massive those surgeries. Many researchers have said, among other things, that by developing, intensifying, eliminating overlaps, it may be possible to keep the level completely unchanged. The overall economic policy of the government is just the right line. Now we just have to focus on the fact that local agreement, which brings employment, is progressing. There has been a call for employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u152	Mr President! It's a good thing we're talking about the care of the elderly here. However, I am still forced to remind the SDP that, last season, you yourself started to reduce the size of the staff. You calculated the size of 0.6 to 0.8 in the quality recommendation to 0.5,and all government parties were involved. Which means 0.5 is where we left off. And as a nurse, I must say that you did not know what you were doing, but as a nurse, I knew what it would mean:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u155	Mr President! It is a very good thing if Mrs Juvonen does something about this issue of the elderly, because it is still going to get worse from the previous one. But what I am talking about is long-term unemployment, which is still growing, and the government does not seem to be doing very much about this. By tightening the Karens and the rules or reducing the protection against dismissal, the problem will not go away. Better results could be achieved, for example by improving employment services: Currently, one official at the TE Offices may have up to 1000 customers. Even young people have to wait for their personal service and guidance for months, in some of the te-offices for almost a year. More human resources are needed for the employment services in order to make this faster encounter between work and labour even possible in some way. This growing long-term unemployment will displace, reduce the future workforce, increase structural unemployment and feed on the potential for future growth. Is there a government?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u156	By way of exception, I shall give the floor immediately to the representative of the same group, Mr Guzenina. I understand he wants to answer to Congressman Juvose.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u157	Mr President! Mr Juvosen's speech just now requires an amendment. What the demars did during the last reign was by no means that we had lowered. Even then, the recommendation was 0.5. And when you look at the recommendations, so on with what you are doing is that you are falling below all the human recommendations. And even at present, these levels of recommendation, for example in intensified treatment, are more than the 0.5 that the demos were driving at the time, and this was very clear to everyone. I remember very well how on the day of the entry into force of the old-age service law you shouted at the hall that this is a day of grief for the elderly in Finland. I say that this government is a government of grief for the elderly in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u158	Mr President! I have also read a lot of the quality recommendation for older people in my work and I do remember that there the dimensioning from which we started was 0.6 to 0.8 per day and in heavy care it 0.6 per day. In other words, the quality recommendation was lowered and weakened: it is now 0.5 from where to start. I have asked so many written questions about it that I can memorize and dream about it. But as far as these themes are concerned, I remember that during the last term, many here have said that it is not the dimension that counts — yes, those speeches were made, and now, suddenly, it does so in favour of care for the elderly. I've told you many times here that it's not just that dimension, but you have to take care of it. As far as I am concerned, I am driving what I have been driving in the past, which means that the dimensioning is not right, but there is much more to be done there. We all know that, no matter how many nurses there are, if there are other problems or other wrongs, we will not be able to get the abuse and treatment of people in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u159	Mr President! As a former head of the retirement home, I was now forced to intervene in this heated debate. It is claimed that this government policy, which allows for a slide of between 0.5 and 0.4 to this nurseship, would have already plunged everything...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u166	Mr President! I would like to put a question to my friend, Mr Ross, who said earlier that if these left-wing proposals were implemented, companies would go bankrupt. Let me give you two examples of our option: Like self-employed women, we believe that the lower limit for VAT taxation must be raised and relief must also be improved. In line with the recent position of entrepreneurial women, we agree. Then our alternative is that, when VATT said that this tax refund of 200 million will be completely wasted on large companies, it has not improved their competitiveness and has not achieved any environmental steering effects, but it will also be wasted on the environment, then it should be abandoned. Our proposal is to halve it. What does Mr Rossi think of these proposals? I believe that the large industry will not go bankrupt because of the halving of this relief, but many small entrepreneurs and female entrepreneurs would find relief in trying to do so by raising the VAT base.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u167	Mr President! It is a question of economic policy, of economic policy: are we going to continue indebtedness in this society, are we going to turn this society away from leaving bills to the next generations, are we creating conditions for companies to compete in this society? There is a difference of opinion, and there may be good proposals as to which individual factors affect each company and their competitiveness and potential. Now we are talking about a budgetary plan, where the basic line is the one where the Competitiveness and Social Pact plays a very central role, as well as savings, structural reforms, the government's contributions to different types of solutions. People talk about the road, talk about the bioeconomy, talk about different projects and so on. This is an economic policy line, and the government has chosen, Mr President, as its economic policy line, to change the direction of Finland. There will probably be many individual measures there that can be considered, and the government will also take them. It's not a question of whether we're going.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u168	Mr President! At the end of this, at the end of my own twist, I would like to raise four points: Veterans' rehabilitation money. I hope that they will now be taken seriously so that year after year they will not be cut first and then raised in Parliament. And the damage limits and the degree of disability of the war invalids are the same thing. I'm sure every veteran deserves the same treatment. And two other things: the profitability of agriculture. Agriculture is in a crisis of profitability and, yes, full support must be given to the government now preparing measures to safeguard its own food production.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u169	I will give the floor to Mr Kivelä, Mr Tuppurainen and Mr Andersson, and Mr Wallinheim, of course. And if there is still a special need after that, one can still see. Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u170	President! Only a functioning economy secures work and bread, and the government has done everything in its power to improve the conditions for companies to operate. In a group speech, Mr Kankaanniemi said that we now expect investment and employment from the industry. Now it's time for business. The government has done its part,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u171	Mr President! The big picture is that the world economy is drifting into a period of slow growth, driven by ageing and low productivity. The question is how to adapt to this. We need a policy to improve employment, we need more labour supply, we need to fight long-term unemployment. And for this improvement in employment, these cutbacks in day care, which, according to all experts, undermine the employment of parents of young children, especially of women. A policy aimed at improving productivity, an innovation policy, a research and product development policy, and so, good government, your training cuts are as unsuited as possible. I am going to ask where, in this framework of public finances, can we find the potential for economic growth? Yes, they seem to be there, resting like its famous Jokis, and there are many questions in the air: where does that new growth come from?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u172	Mr President! Mr Heikkinen raised the government's line on this lump sum for women's employers. I think that's a good line, that's a good solution. I personally do not believe that it will be historic, but if major improvements are to be made to the labour market position of women, then the real problem of our family leave system should be addressed. The creation of a family leave system that would allow a more even distribution of care leave would also lead to a more even distribution of costs between employers. And yet, I have not myself answered the question as to why the government is making day care decisions that are directly at odds with this government's first objective of promoting employment. Why is this being done when, according to all experts, these measures are detrimental to women's employment and labour market status? I think it will be great if the government cancels the increases in day care fees. I would have liked the same consideration to be used when dealing with this definition of subjective day care rights,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u173	Mr President! The estimate of the Nordic bank tax revenue just presented by representative Harakka is based on a very structured comparison of the size of the Finnish and Swedish economies and banking sectors. Of course, such a comparison can be made, but it is hardly worth declaring with a very firm voice the tax revenue expectations based on such a comparison, i.e. an alternative budget of 230 million. I don't think this kind of money is coming. Moreover, this bank tax is only in preparation in Sweden and we do not even know for sure what the profit expectations are, so how can the demars know what is coming out of it? Unfortunately, this tax revenue, such as Sitra's internal transfers and the high investment and return expectations of the shadow economy, is taking the base away from the SDP's alternative budget, creating a gap of well over half a billion. I would therefore like Mr Harakka to be able to correct this gap first before we can talk about a genuinely credible alternative budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u174	Mr President! Mr Wallinheimo is right that the calculation is structured and, of course, based only on the profit estimate made by the Swedish Government on its own bank tax, which is now in the legislative stage and is already in the consultation process. It will happen, it will be at its best next year. If they have estimated half a billion euros, then it is quite reasonable to estimate that our target could be EUR 230 million. And that is a genuine additional income for the Finnish State. That is a genuine tax policy. It is genuine action to ensure that central government finances are also strengthened through tax revenues. This is the way in which this government was criticised by the Economic Council: there is no desire to take tax revenue and thus to strengthen Finland's state finances fairly and equally. You only use surgery that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u175	One last comment to the representatives of Aalto, Kankaanniemi and Kalli. And if there is any particular comment to be made after Mr Kallin, the chairman of the committee, then let us see.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u176	Mr President! There are many demands for structural reforms in this Chamber. I also support them, they are also supported by the Greens, and I am sure that the whole House will support them. There's a lot of required surgery in this room. These too will probably have to be done in a targeted way as part of the spending adjustment, but I wonder a little about why structural reforms cannot be extended to include our tax subsidy system and our business support system and environmentally harmful subsidies. It would also be possible, through structural reforms, to remove euros that can be allocated to many other locations. Why are cuts not acceptable, for example, to the aid scheme for companies, to the tax scheme and to the environmentally harmful subsidies, which also provide the minus marks that Mr Zyskowicz wanted? Why aren't they good enough?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u177	Mr President! I was in direct contact with the University of Jyväskylä and asked — when there is a cry here that cuts in education and research will destroy education and education and destroy the entire university — whether that is true. I have the answer: this is not what is happening if no further cuts are made. And they don't make them. The University of Jyväskylä has achieved savings of as much as 3 million by improving the use of the facilities. The combination of units, administrative efficiency and the new use of temporary labour have resulted in significant savings. If new ones are made, then we are in trouble, but now we are not. The University of Helsinki immediately left to scrap the teaching with the negotiations. There, at such a big university, there would certainly have been scope for structural reforms.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u178	And now the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalli, two minutes if necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, I have made the following comments: Mr Zyskowicz, Mr Lindtman, Mr Huhtasaari, Mr Yanar, Mr Heikkinen. Here we go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u181	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, you are squirming like a worm on a hook when you are required to have concrete savings options. Mr Yanar has already promised in a group statement that you will hear from the rear, but when you have not heard from him. You have told us about major tax evasions, and it is understandable that you would do part of the balancing with tax increases. When you are said to have an alternative to the government and when you are opposed to all the savings that the government has proposed, we are still missing out on the practical savings options of the billions, and that is what I am going to ask you for the rest of the parliamentary term, if that is what the situation requires. In any case, I will continue in the autumn, which is to ask you to use part of the summer break you have well earned to consider these concrete savings which we have not heard from you. It was now heard that Kela compensations should be abolished, even though Mr Kari was furiously defending them in that social media.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u182	Mr President! In my opinion, this debate was such a good debate that, although there was no clear turning point in government policy, I think that there was a lot of hope for the future here. If something should be considered in the government as well as in the opposition in the summer, then it would probably be more important to think about the new opportunities for growth. Now, unlike the government a year ago, it has been said many times that these cuts will not save Finland's economy. This has changed the sound of the clock, and now there is a lot of hope that these will become reality. So, a lot of promises: Here Heikkinen and Juvonen promised to fight for these old-age care cuts to be cancelled, education cuts to be put on ice once again, Orpo promised low incomes, middle class manna. We'll wait for these. Pensioners are waiting for their own promises, and the new group president in the centre, who has not yet made his first appearance, Mr President! I thought this was a good conversation. Although there is no turning point now, expectations of a turnaround are increasing and we will be happy to return to the issue in the autumn.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u183	Next, Mr Huhtasaari, in this spirit of harmony.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u184	Mr President! The credibility that the opposition has not cut out of education is zero. Furthermore, fathers and mothers who are working are allowed to take children to day care and society is able to take them to day care, but if fathers and mothers are at home, I do not understand the opposition's logic that even then society should take care of children. I am pleased that the shipowner in Rauma has received an order for a passenger ferry. This is an indication that international companies trust and want to invest in Finland. This government wants to reform, and only the reformer will keep himself relevant in the future. For example, this government is considering different tax models, as growth candidates are in the SMEs and investment and jobs sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u185	Mr President! I'll pass Mr. Zyskowicz right away and go talk to Mr. Häkkänen. Like Mrs Zyskowicz, I have been very disappointed not to listen to what we are saying. Among other things, Mr Häkkänen referred to the report of the Economic Assessment Council. It says that taxation is less harmful from the point of view of economic growth than cuts — it is, in fact, quite an interesting line, and it is justified there, it is worth reading, and it is worth getting to know it. On this basis, the Economic Assessment Council notes that this overall tax rate, as it were, is only a political decision. For those who said that the quality of Finnish research does not suffer from these cuts, that it is simply being developed: that is certainly not true. If you look at the University of Helsinki or Aalto University, you will see
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u186	Mr President! There is a great deal of research evidence of the effects of one direction and another of economic policy, and the big line chosen in the focus of adjustment, either on the tax side or on the expenditure side, is that in the long term it will be significantly more harmful to tighten taxation and, in a way, to make that adjustment there on the tax side.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u187	I will therefore give the floor to the representatives of Heikkinen, Mäkisalo-Ropponen and Henriksson, and then move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u188	Mr President! The slide in care made possible by the nurse measure, between 0.5 and 0.4, this change in the law, is certainly not valid. I find it very incorrect that in this Chamber there are misinformed speeches and accused the government of this kind of thing, which is therefore not in force. This is a message for Congressman Guzenina. Secondly, the participation of young women in the labour market. This one-off payment, EUR 2500, is, in my opinion, a very significant hand-out for employers who employ women. All in all, my final comment on this good, colorful debut is that yes, but the starting point is that the more employment we can achieve, the more sustainable we can all take care of the weaker parts of society and keep the whole of Finland whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u189	Mr President! As the chairman of the committee, Mr Kalli, said, such an important question really is what you are looking for growth. Finland’s economic growth has been based on productivity growth, which in turn has been based on knowledge and increased knowledge. Although it is difficult to evaluate clearly the effectiveness of research and education or any other individual actor, such as Tekes or the Academy of Finland, the many experts we heard in the Committee on the Future agreed that research and education contribute to innovation. In addition, the same experts stressed that support for innovation is one of the few that has clear and indisputable economic criteria, i.e. it is indeed worthwhile to support it. But what does this government do? Cut out education, science, research and the very innovation activity, which is the most important basis for growth that we have. That is the very short-sighted policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u190	And the last response, Mr Henriksson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u191	Värderade Talman! Vi är alla säkert överens om det att sysselsättningsgraden behöver höjas och därför så behöver vi satsa på välmående i arbetslivet — också. Det är en sak som regeringen hits har glömt bort, och nu skulle det vara dags att se att är finns stora inbesparingar.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u192	Honored Speaker! In my actual speech, I would like to return a little bit to this debate on a few points. The opposition has also strongly criticised the government for excluding the limitation of parental leave from mothers. In reality, however, this would not create jobs for women, but would increase the costs of day care. At least that's what I believe. This wouldn't be a magic way to get women from home to work. Personally, I prefer the choice in the family of who to care for the child, especially at an early stage. Secondly, the fact that throughout this whole three-hour debate, the same farce was seen, which was seen before, that the opposition has this bliss and right of right only exists. However, there is no reason to go to the government to advise and criticise as strongly as we have heard today, because your own measures during the last term of government, such as those of the Socialists, the Greens and the Left, are quite different from what you have spoken today. To create an image of a disciplined government, even though you have agreed on similar adjustments during the last parliamentary term, is a time for populism. The government is trying to build a future for our children in the years to come, and the most important thing is to create this growth and number of jobs. Mr President! Today, there has been a great deal of concern about this economic situation, but it should rather address its root causes. As an export-driven small economy, point number one is, of course, foreign trade. According to Customs statistics, exports in the first quarter of last year were 8 per cent lower than last year. You should really think about why this is happening. Who wants to buy Finnish goods and services if they are too expensive? The euro rate is far too high for us in relation to production costs. The government will do what it can with a competitiveness pact to reduce costs, but that is a rather laborious and unfortunate way, as we have seen. The key topics for discussion will certainly be this euro-deviation solution, which will come to us in the autumn, also through this citizens' initiative. Because we dare to recognise that the euro is not working at the moment? For the euro to work, are we prepared to sell more and more of our unity and independence in this country to Brussels? Europe is moving in an increasingly tight federal direction, and this is precisely because of this unworkable economic policy. Great Britain is setting an example of how democracy works. I do not think it will take a long time for Finland to face up to the same facts from eye to eye and let the people decide on the euro as well as on EU membership. Mr President! A few words on this report by the Committee on Finance. The Section for Administrative and Security has paid credit to the fact that police resources are not sufficient for this entire spending limits period. It was also noted that, in the same way, the resources at the Border Guard and the Emergency Response Centre will not be sufficient during this spending limits period. We had a good conversation with a number of experts. I am therefore very grateful that the Committee on Finance, with the exception of a few members of the opposition, unanimously adopted this draft report. The conclusion of the draft report with regard to the Section for Administration and Security was that, on the basis of the reports received by the committee, it was only the fulfilment of the personal year-to-year needs set out in the report that would require an additional contribution of approximately EUR 100 million to the current spending limits decision. After all, these cannot be implemented in the framework of the 2016 Spring Framework Decision when they do not exist. However, the committee considered it so important that these financial needs raised there should be taken into account in the next spending limits decisions, in particular with regard to the police, the Border Guard and the Emergency Response Centre. We must therefore say to the Christian Democrats, among other things, that we have taken account of this reduction in the number of police officers and we consider it important that the Government's report on internal security, which mentions at least this 7000 police border, should be implemented during this parliamentary term. That money will certainly be found in the next framework, so there is no need to worry about it. But, Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that we should, together with the opposition and the government, discuss how we can make Finland's economy grow. These would be more constructive topics for discussion than spending three hours barking at each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u193	Mr President! Having listened to this debate on the planning of public finances, it is somewhat confusing to note that there are still many very different aspects of the need for fiscal consolidation measures in this Chamber, although the situation is that the public finances, i.e. the state and the municipalities, are in debt to us Finns for almost EUR 15 million this summer, while at the same time paying common interest expenses of more than EUR 4 million every day, despite the fact that interest rates are exceptionally low. However, public debt increases by nearly 15 million every day, and interest payments exceed 4 million. Indeed, it is only by sticking to the spending framework and to the adjustment target of EUR 4 billion that debt can be broken down. Of course, it is also the case that we must be able to turn politics into reasons and preventative measures, so that we do not simply deal with the consequences. Mr President! The budgetary plan under discussion is necessary. It supports better and longer-term, more comprehensive and more economical planning and implementation of the economy. For a long time now, we have a situation in our country's economic outlook that the Ministry of Finance predicts economic growth of more than 1% for the coming years. According to a forecast published today by the Ministry of Finance, Finland's economy would grow by 1.4 percentage points this year, and domestic demand in particular has been the engine of growth. The growth rates are not high, but they are in the right direction. Future faith and trust are needed, hopefully they are returning, the economy — like many others — when there is psychology. Mr President! In this speech, I will focus on a couple of smaller issues for the sustainability of central government finances. Of course, it is clear that there is a need for action in every direction to balance the economy, both in terms of strict spending discipline and adjustment and in terms of structural reforms. Hopefully, in the long term, after the social welfare reform, it will also be time to reflect on the structural reforms of central government and the ministerial structure. But in particular we need measures to increase employment. But the two smaller issues are de-bureaucratic and out of administrative focus, as well as the overall economic, genuinely productivity-promoting ict solutions. Bureaucracy, administrative orientation and ict solutions are both such that failure has burdened our public finances by countless millions, if not hundreds of millions. We can lose several tens of millions of them in this government, too, if we do not act wisely and sustainably. Administratively-centred, heavy red tape must be translated into a citizen- and entrepreneur-centred, red tape-removal approach. Many entrepreneurs have contacted and brought out the strangest filling of the flag and note. Although the government has been able to promote the conditions for entrepreneurs, there is still a lot of work to be done to dismantle unnecessary bureaucracy. The second is these ict solutions. The public sector has set high expectations for both productivity and services, which are not tied to time or place. However, we must hope that the Ministry of Finance will take the overall responsibility, ownership and management of state ict solutions and digitalisation projects on a more stringent basis. Instead of administrative focus and wasting common resources, customer and user orientation must be put at the centre. The budgetary plan is a necessary policy paper. The Committee on Finance has done a good job under the chairmanship of Mr Kalli — thank you for that. I believe that the budgetary plan will create and guide our economy towards a more comprehensive and global economic policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u194	Mr President! Government fiscal policy is threatening growth. The very tight fiscal policy line chosen by the government slows down economic activity at a critical moment. Three years later, the economy has just turned weakly positive. Too tight and over-targeted fiscal policy threatens to mean winter for emerging economic growth. In its report, the Committee notes that economic growth has been particularly driven by domestic demand and the construction sector. The Bank of Finland and the Ministry of Finance have also estimated that economic growth will remain at around 1% for the next three years and growth will be supported by domestic demand while exports remain subdued. Substantial adjustments reduce domestic consumption demand, which undermines the ability of enterprises dependent on domestic demand to employ and invest. Tax revenue paid by households and enterprises to the State is decreasing at the same time as expenditure resulting from the increase in unemployment is increasing. Mr President! Turning the economy to growth is a huge challenge, and the government's economic line makes the situation even more difficult. On the cutting line, it is difficult to generate the confidence and future faith that is now needed, among other things, to boost investment. When exports do not pull and the private sector does not carry it, it is important to keep the only engine of the economy running so that it carries on at a time when exports have recovered, structural reforms are biting and the private sector has overcome the worst stage. It is a question of building a bridge and measuring economic policies in a timely manner so that we do not get into the negative circle of the economy. Mr President! In this Chamber, we need to understand that central government finances operate differently from private and corporate finances. Whenever the State reduces its expenditure, it also reduces its revenue. This does not seem to be understood by the government, which is why tax revenues are falling, unemployment is rising and the costs of unemployment are rising. Before the elections, we discussed who will cut the most, and now we are competing for who will take the least debt. Instead of this populist rhetoric, it is essential to look at where the money is being spent, how the money spent is being used back, how different decisions affect different sectors of the economy and how different measures support our common goal of building a sustainable economy. Mr President! The Greens agree with the budgetary plan's assessment that fiscal and other economic policies must strike a balance between: supporting domestic demand beyond the medium term of recession, deleveraging and ensuring long-term economic growth and sustainability of public finances. Although the structural problems of the economy cannot be addressed solely by supporting domestic demand, ignoring cyclical problems creates structural problems. The Greens also believe that cuts in public spending and their growth need to be curbed. However, we believe that the government's spending savings target of EUR 4 billion for the proposed time horizon is too high. In addition, it has been mistargeted. Mr President! In the worst case scenario, mistargeted and excessively tight fiscal policies prevent new growth and structural expenditure adjustment from taking place over a longer period of time. The medium- and long-term objective of balancing the economy is primarily threatened by ever-increasing unemployment. Increased and prolonged unemployment is likely to reduce the growth potential of the economy in the medium and long term. For this reason, cyclical fiscal policies and structural reforms must support each other. High unemployment combined with the tightening fiscal policies of the government weakens the demand for domestic markets and thus the ability of the private sector to employ and invest. We are easily in a circle of negative spirals, despite the current small economic growth, which will lead to a reduction in the budget-based economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u195	Mr President, Mr Värderade Herr talman! När vi nu diskuterar statsrådets redogörelse för de offentliga finanserna för åren 2017—2020 är det bra att ägna en tanke åt den fart med Vilken världen framöver kommer att ändras.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u196	Mr President! "What are we talking about when we talk about love? "The name I recommend summer reading. So when we talk about Finland's competitiveness, what are we talking about? The nations do not compete in the market, the companies compete. The nations do not export goods, buy and sell, but companies. If the companies are not competitive, the responsibility lies with the companies. It's a market economy. Victory is a reward for risk. If you don't take a chance, you don't deserve to win. This is not the case in Finland. Companies are afraid to take risks, they are not investing. Still, the government guarantees the profits. This is not the line of the current government alone, but over the last few years the state has helped businesses with several billions of euros. The results are weak, not only in terms of employment, investment but, above all, the added value of production. Finland is not a country of cheap work or cheap goods. This is a fact that has come to be forgotten, given that for a year now we have focused only on price competitiveness. At its worst, the government has sworn that the problems will be solved alone by lowering the cost of the labour force. That is not the case. The low added value of Finnish companies' export production and services is the big problem. The structure of exports is one-sided in terms of both product supply and size of companies. Finland’s export revenue is generated by half by some 25 large companies — and they do not increase and plan to reduce the workforce more. By contrast, SMEs account for only one quarter of Finland's exports. In Sweden the same figure is 35%, in Denmark it is 45%. This figure should not be allowed to discourage, but should inspire the enormous potential. Finnish large companies produce mainly investment goods, not consumer goods. When investments throughout Europe have been in recession for 8 years, Finland's exports have suffered more than any other euro country. The range of exports needs to be broadened and Finnish companies need to play the most productive role in global value chains. Unfortunately, the budgetary plan does not respond to this challenge. Every time I talk about the quality of exports and not the quantity, brand competitiveness and price competitiveness, I get a cry for too tender a mind. Discipline and cuts are needed, drastic structural changes in the labour market. This way of thinking is called machonomics — ‘machonomics’. But let us put this prejudice aside for just a moment, especially now that the price-lower agreement on labour has been reached. Let's just say it's behind us now, but let's just say it's not enough. Let us look forward to meeting the major challenges that export will generate more revenue in the digital world economy. According to the Global Competitiveness Council list, Finland is the 8th most competitive country in the world. Number 8 — sounds good. But in terms of commercialisation, we are at 39, Eastern Central Europe level if not below. "In a conflict between thisbulk-goodsconcern and innovation efforts, Finland failed to make use of innovation,as didAnneKorkiakoski,a government professional and a The link between marketing inputs and the national product is obvious. According to Korkiakoski, Sweden benefited not only from its own currency but also from the fact that marketing investments for 2008 did not fall very much in GDP share. Sweden also produces a large number of consumer goods. How is Finland? Marketing inputs are about half of what is in the competitor countries, about 3-4 % of GDP, and only one third of what is in the United States. The global digital world economy has changed the rules of export and success. Marketing is no longer just an external part of production but an important component of it. This is illustrated by the fact that one quarter of the most successful company in Finland, Supercell, spent alone on marketing costs. Marketing is therefore an added-value factor in production, and that is why Anne Korkiakoski presented us with a list of what should be invested in in the very near future if we want to respond to the problem of how the added value of Finnish exports would increase. Mr President! Finally, this concrete list: training, development of commercialisation as part of public funding and development of IP assets
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u197	Mr President! First of all, I would like to support Mr Östman's objection. The Government's report on the budgetary plan for 2017-2020 contains several painful savings targets. They should be retargeted. The cuts to child allowance, home care support, private care support, labour market support, front subsidy, military assistance, pensionable care allowance and housing support for pensioners — as examples — appear small in euro, but they are significant, very tangible for the people most in need of social assistance. Every old man is an invaluable person, a builder of this society who deserves a decent, dignified old age. Elderly care has increasingly been transferred to homes with care measures, which is positive if genuine care is taken to maintain the elderly’s ability to function and to cope with everyday life. In this new situation, it is more important to raise the level of care care to the former level, as only those living in institutions have significantly reduced performance and a high need for care. There is no longer much care available in institutions to compensate for. Valvira has recently reported general mistreatment of the elderly in treatment institutions. Complaints to regional government agencies are also over-represented in the treatment of the elderly. This also has to do with the measurement of the carer. For example, there are two nurses on the morning shift in the care unit for the elderly with 18 inhabitants, but only one nurse on the evening and night shift who is responsible for everything. The low number of nurses not only increases the inhumane treatment of the elderly but also reduces the ability of carers to work and the attractiveness of nursing. Many move on to other tasks after finding that one cannot act humanly, time is not enough, not to mention to be able to carry out the nurse’s calling in his present work. The restructuring of social and health care needs to be carried out on the basis of the original objectives, mainly with a focus on the integration of social and health care services in order to streamline care chains, strengthen basic services, prevention and customer perspective, increase customer involvement and motivation and reduce duplication of administrations. The accompanying objectives attached to the reform along the way must be abandoned and focus instead on the core objectives in order to ensure that the reform is implemented on time. I believe that it is important and very necessary to strengthen the preparation of experts in order to push forward the reform of social services. Experience and expertise should be utilised. Mr President! Surgery from education and research eats up the food for growth. The cuts in student aid make it more difficult for young people to train. The Government's proposal for an equal cut of EUR 122 million in student grants reduces the equality of opportunities and increases the inherited disadvantage of reducing the possibility of studying on the basis of student support. Increasing the focus on student loans right at the start of studies will leave young people, for example, who are not in good shape for credit, but who are keen to get life on track. The student support system should be developed more in the direction of encouraging student support, as proposed by the Christian Democrats. It can reward hard-working students, take into account family students, shorten study hours and also provide incentives for students to work and entrepreneurship. Research, education and innovation helped rise from the major recession in the early 1990s. Now the government's cuts to research, the budgets for industrial and innovation policy are simply too large. Mr President! At present, the gap between government objectives and reality is too great, and it will be reflected in the economic development of our country if the government does not change its line. The course must be checked and the course corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u198	Mr President! It is important for Finland's exports that a long-standing competitiveness agreement was finally reached. It contributes to reducing the competitive gap between Finnish exports and competitors. Our relative competitiveness will also be enhanced by increases in unit labour costs in other countries. It is understandable that employees' organisations are satisfied with the victory they have achieved in the fight against unemployment, as the general flexibility of working conditions is maintained. The problem was that no progress was made in local agreement. Many industries and companies are doing very well in Finland at the moment, but equally many industries and companies are doing very badly, and these companies would need to be taken into account by local agreement. It is clear that, from now on, achieving and maintaining competitiveness will require continuous restructuring of companies and more efficient processes. It must be possible to reduce costs and increase productivity. New activities and economic growth must be achieved, and that is the only way to create new jobs. If we fail to do this, the management of public finances will also suffer. Recently, much has been said about the importance of domestic consumer demand as an engine for economic growth. Domestic demand should not be underestimated, but the fact is that it is also very important for imported goods and services. At present, it is also largely based on government debt. It is essential to have a good start on exports, which ultimately also pay for imports. Mr President! It is very possible that there will be a long period of relatively poor employment development. This is due to the fact that digitalisation is now eating jobs in the intellectual sector, just as technological development at the time reduced jobs in industry and agriculture, for example. The trend in development can be so strong that there will only be ways to achieve a substantial improvement in employment development after an unforeseen period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u199	Mr President! Finland's exports have been minus-driven for about eight years. The German-led euro exchange rate feeds on Finnish competitiveness. I would like to remind you that we would not even need to do so if we were not in the euro, which means that instead of external devaluation, we now have to do internal devaluation. Kiky has indeed succeeded, and the opposition has also resisted that. Finland’s economy is in a challenging situation, i.e. revenue is not sufficient for expenditure, and we are increasingly in debt. Budget guidelines 2017-2020: the budgetary plan includes additional savings of around EUR 370 million in order to meet the adjustment target of EUR 4 billion set in the Government Programme. The basis for Finland's exports rests on a few large companies. It is estimated that there are approximately 13,000 export companies in Finland. In Finland, small and medium-sized enterprises account for about 15 per cent of exports. Team Finland, formed jointly by ministries and export support organisations, aims to double the share by 2020. In addition to the forest and chemical industries, there are bright spots in other industries. Health technology is very high-quality. Services can also be exported. When things are good and reputations are good, a company smaller than that gets to the world. In marketing, those who are creative, convincing and those who have passion and courage to compete will succeed. If we can perfect our marketing skills, nothing will stop Finland. Only a constantly renewed person will keep himself relevant in the future. You always have to be better. Failure is no shame. Sometimes the scholarships paid through failure are the way to work at your best. Evolution never stops. The government is now considering different tax models. Economic growth must be brought to a lush growth. Growth fins are in the SME sector. Investment and job creation are small-scale. The Estonian tax model is now being examined in such a way that it can fit into Finland. This model has good lunches. Companies are now awaiting implementation from the government. There must always be objectives which are appropriate to the operation and which must be clearly measured. Up-to-date information about what is going on is the most important result-making tool in everything. If something doesn't work in the company, things have to be done in a new way. However, I do not like the Suomi Oy Ab approach. You can't run a country with exactly the same principles as corporations. Finland is for every Finnish citizen and their services must be guaranteed. In order to take care of Finns, social impact assessments must be taken into account in the decisions. The management of employment is particularly important. The Brexit vote is about to take place. Mr President, I am nervous. I wish the Brexis would come true. The EU has added value mainly for the EU. The secret to good leadership is trust. The year 2014 was 20. the time in a row when the auditors did not accept the EU’s financial statements. Fortunately, younger knees do not feel the fear of the Lord and are able to question the bureaucratic machinery. The goal of leadership is to make others shine. The EU will not dismantle itself — politicians would have too much to lose. The EU is not capable of self-criticism. The EU does not analyse why the countries that have done well acted like Switzerland, which has just withdrawn its application for membership. The EU does not go into itself when one country after another is considering the holding of a referendum, as is the case with Denmark, not only in Britain. The EU responds with intimidation from the EU. Fortunately, Britain is not afraid to consult the people. The EU has experienced many crises and has not been able to respond to them. The EU has made nation states rigid. The EU is also a club that does not comply with its own rules. I wonder in what way Norway would be intimidated if it now told me that it wanted to leave the EU. We will not get an answer because Norway will not join the EU. But if this brex were to happen now, it would also open the way for Finland to leave the EU.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u200	Mr President! It would be interesting to have an EU debate for a while, but time does not allow for this at the moment. However, on the basis of the previous speech, I would like to say that when Finland joined this economic union, and hence EMU and the euro, at that point in time, Parliament and Finland should have considered this matter further, as the centre did then, and felt that it would have been wiser to stay outside the euro. Once again, there are factors in EU membership that are in favour of being there, and conclusions that go far enough should not be drawn from the British vote either. Let us see what is happening there, but let this EU debate now be a chapter of its own. Mr. Speaker! I would like to say — when criticisms were made here from the opposition to the new finance minister, as it were, even the sighs of disappointment, immediately after his appointment — In the words of Eino Leino's Son of the Day poem, "Don't be so grumpy when an orphan steps up!".. I believe, Mr President, that Mr Orpo, the Minister for Finance, will implement the economic policy line of the Sipilä Government in a good way, and so far this matter has gone quite well. After all, when we talk about poverty or caring about people, the basic premise of the government and this government programme is precisely that this economic policy is being implemented because we are getting the Finnish economy to grow and are able to safeguard the foundations of our welfare society, the social security, health care, education and many needs that are needed in terms of security and many things. In fact, I want to quietly ask all the representatives here how far everyone thinks it is possible to live in debt. If it is very difficult to think about in terms of public finances, then it is worth thinking about in terms of private finances: how long can you spend more than you earn? It very easily comes to the point of running out of money and, as the Prime Minister said, 'if there is no rabble, then there will be nothing more' — there is a great deal of consensus about living as a debt that it cannot continue. According to the latest forecasts, the GDP share of that debt is expected to decline only around 2020, i.e. after the end of this parliamentary term, and that is also an estimate. Although we now have good prospects for economic growth — the most recent GDP forecast for this year is 1.4%, and in the following years it is just over 1%, or at that level — it is modest, then, in relation to our debt situation. And this is our great concern: Are we really leaving that debt balance to the next generations to be paid and, as it were, to be swept away by worries to be taken care of by others? In this respect, the government must continue this economic policy line, and it must be continued precisely because we are saving the Finnish welfare society and are able to secure jobs for young people for the future. The savings of EUR 4 billion are huge savings, but in the end, when they are proportionate to reality, they are not impossible. Everyone can always wonder how many percent can compromise their own economy when a tight spot comes. In a tight spot, you have to compromise much more than a few individual percentages. The fact that we have a job target at a very high level of 110,000 new jobs is extremely important for Finland as a whole. And, for example, these road investments, infra-investments, almost one billion in this parliamentary term, will not be wasted. They create a basis for industrial investment. In Central Finland, for example, significant improvements are being made in the Äänekoski region, precisely because industrial production starting there is able to move forward. We have several similar projects in Finland, including Kuopio, and several other bioprojects in different parts of the country. That is why we also need to invest in these very foundations. And that is where the government has started to make the right answers with its own policies and solutions, thereby creating work, foundations and progress. This is where Mr Lindtman said — Mr President, just to the end — that Mr Rossi said that nothing will change. Well, the government programme does not really change, even though there are changes in the government, but that is what the government's policy is about to change, and that is what we are about to change. It's the policy of the Sipilä government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u201	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. There have been very good speeches here, and I am sure we all agree that we must stop living in debt and we cannot continue on that path. I am speaking on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, because I am a member of the committee and the committee director, and that is why I think it is important to raise these issues. We now have the opportunity to talk about this nursing allowance, and I really want to focus my speech on this care for the elderly. Mr Sari Tanus, you made a good speech and raised concerns about patients who are being treated very badly. Now it is true that it is not the heavy bed care that is becoming weaker, that is to say it will remain in the 0.6, that is, the same as it has been in the past according to this quality recommendation. In other words, it would be the very patients who are being treated heavily and who are there, for example, in the wards of health centers, that care is available. Mr President! The beginning of all this and the very beginning of this nursing dimensional discussion took place last season. We then achieved a good old-age law, but that old-age law itself does not bring more helping hands. In addition to the Old Age Act, there is a quality recommendation for services for the elderly, which was drawn up in 2008. And last season, alongside the Act on the Elderly, this quality recommendation was also re-examined. At the time, the quality recommendation had the Ministry's nurses' measurements, and among other things, the size of 24-hour care was 0.6 to 0.8. These measurements then began to be weakened. At the health centre it was between 0.6 and 0.7. It remained unchanged, but this 24-hour care was lowered to 0.5, and it really happened during the SDP. There were also the Christian, the RKP, the Greens, the Left Alliance during their reign. And this decision to weaken this quality recommendation came into force on 17 July 2013. In other words, the measurements there are now so low, and the quality recommendation is what is read among students in medical schools, which is read in the workplace, which is what the occupational health and safety advisers, the shop stewards are paying attention to when we talk about a good dimension. This is what I myself have done in my capacity as a shop steward — at that time the scales were higher. But whether or not it is, we should not look into history there, but we should do everything we can to get this health sector, care for the elderly, patient safety — all the themes related to caring for people — to the right place. We have heard Valvira's explanations, and I am sure we will all receive mail, e-mail, which tells us what the situation is in Finland. Congressman Sari Tanus, you just told me that realism: yes, at night there is one night nurse. I myself have spent 13 years working nights so that I know what it's like to be alone as a night nurse on duty if there's a lot to take care of. You'll have to wonder how you're gonna get your job done and what you're gonna do during that shift. And especially alone, it is hard to assume responsibility. But it is precisely so that we have a good staff. They can do it, but they can't stretch forever. After all, it was the idea that, when we have different units, if there is a client, a patient, an elderly person — whatever we call them — who needs less care, then the weakening would be directed at a person who can handle, for example, a single nurse. But then when we talk about heavy care, that is, if there is a paralyzed, elderly person in that unit who needs a care contribution from two people, then of course it cannot be weakened. In other words, there were such ideas, but all of us in nursing — we who have seen it in our daily lives, doctors who have encountered patients, as well as nurses — know that it is very unrealistic to seek savings where people are quiet, demanding nothing, content themselves with what they are given. Nothing is as terrible as an old man’s hand coming over a hospital bed and begging for help if you are not there to give it. It's a really terrible situation, and it's also hurting the nurses. As a nurse myself, I have been concerned about this and I will continue to carry it and I will do everything in my power to make my voice heard. This is certainly not a one-woman war, but as a nurse I speak through my heart now that I say that the elderly should have a good care and do everything possible to make this happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u202	Mr President! The latest figures on Finland’s economic development provide a subdued hope for a change in the direction of the economy. A modest growth rate was recorded last year, and in the early part of the year there have been more signs of improvement. There is no need to marvel at the reverse, and the government has no reason to take credit for it. Finland has suffered for years from an investment recession, and at some point business investments must be made. The plants and logistics centres need to be updated, buildings need to be repaired and new ones erected. If we are to bet, the growth will continue in Finland's export countries, Britain will remain in the EU and the Chinese debt bubble will remain under control, so external conditions can carry Finland from export interests over difficult years to come. But you cannot rely on mere good luck; you also need your own actions. The Competitiveness Pact and its collective agreements are a good starting point for these own actions. The agreement has been criticised, perhaps partly on the subject, but still has a positive impact. The agreement improves Finland’s price competitiveness by cutting wage costs. Its aim is that the next round of negotiations will also support the promotion of the competitiveness and employment of work in Finland. Of course, this achievement must be redeemed in each coming round separately. It also requires labour market expertise from the government in a rapidly changing contractual environment. Mr President! In the longer term, we have cause for concern. Many powerful economists have warned that the period of slow economic growth that began after the financial crisis could be a long-term phenomenon. World population growth is slowing down, and so in Europe, In Asia as well as in North and South America, it is expected that the growth of the working-age population will stop and turn downwards. In addition to labour input, labour productivity growth is also waning. Perhaps global growth will be boosted in the future by ict technology or life sciences, but from the experience of recent years it must be recognised that this is a question of hope, not forecasts. The problems mentioned above also affect Finland and especially Finland. Our population is ageing, our workforce is declining. and productivity is stagnating. The Government’s broad economic policy guidelines provide solutions to major challenges. We would need a strong employment strategy, not only to combat the exclusion of the unemployed, but also to safeguard the supply of labour. This government cuts to subjective day care rights are as inappropriate as possible, as they undermine the employment of the parents of young children and thus the labour supply. It would be appropriate to use the budgetary margin to reduce the tax burden on small incomes and reduce the tax wedge on employment. Even a reasonable risk-taking with regard to the budgetary balance would be allowed here. On the other hand, it cannot be acceptable for the productivity of work to be subject to severe cuts in education. We are in an unprecedented situation where the age groups entering the labour market are less educated than the older ones. Mr President! The Government's efforts in the development of public finances recorded in the spending limits decision are important for Finland's survival and for ensuring the financial security and well-being of Finns. Public finances can be a burden that hampers the economy or support its development. The structural change of the economy must start with the actions of the public authorities themselves. Like its predecessors, the Government has realised that the reform of social and health services is key because of the use of funds and labour input. Unfortunately, this government has not kept to the timetables set. What is even more regrettable is that its priorities seem perverse. The Government has decided on a new level of government, autonomous regions based on regional division. The number of these has already been decided. It has still not been clear how the regional government will solve the key issues of social welfare reform. Difficult things require careful preparation. Here, too, the opposition would be prepared to help the government with its advice, just as it was prepared to support the Competitiveness Pact. Major reforms must be prepared to be aware that even if one government body decides the matter, it will in due course be carried out by another group. President! No policy will be taken at national level. In particular, economic policy is not made in isolation. Ensuring Finland’s own economic growth and fiscal stability requires close cooperation between the Member States of the European Union and, in particular, the countries belonging to the euro area. Finland must be an active and constructive actor. It must maintain and restore the status in which it was consulted in other Member States.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u203	Mr President! Today's forecast by the Ministry of Finance indicates that Finland's economy will grow by 1.4 per cent this year. Growth is driven by domestic demand. The economy is expected to grow by one percentage point next year and by 1.3 per cent in 2018. Similar positive signals have been heard in recent weeks. It seems that the direction of the Finnish ship is turning. That means that we have a policy in the right direction. A competitiveness agreement recently concluded showed that Finland is still in a position to agree. No other European country has been able to do this. Above all, thanks are due to the unions that have felt their responsibility and to the persistent Prime Minister, who, despite the adversities, continued to make efforts to reach a solution.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u206	Mr President! At the time of setting the frameworks, the economic outlook was particularly difficult, but it is now a few months later that it is easier to say that Finland itself has now taken significant steps towards a more positive direction, including through the Competitiveness Pact. I very much appreciate the social partners that this difficult agreement was reached for employees in order to improve the competitiveness of Finnish work and companies and to strengthen the opportunities of the Finnish economy in the global market. After all, Finland's economy will only rise through new jobs, but of course it is clear that this competitiveness pact will also lead to future tax reductions that will keep the economy spinning. Let us hope, then, that summer will bring more coverage to the agreement and that tax reductions will increase as a result. Another positive feature of this competitiveness pact was that this agreement shows that, in a tight position, Finland will be able to work together and agree on matters. As far as the economic frameworks are concerned, a few comments on the various sectors. I would also like to emphasise, as a municipal decision-maker, the government's lasting relationship with the local government, which was also rightly highlighted by the Committee on Finance in its report. In the course of this government, no additional obligations have been imposed on the municipalities to weaken their economy. Finally, we also have the principle of financial responsibility in concrete terms. All in all, there is a big difference between the previous government, which, through its own efforts, tightened the local government economy to a state of crisis. Of course, for the economic and tax development of municipalities, we must hope for economic growth. After all, economic growth would be the most effective way of ensuring the performance of municipal tasks. I also welcome the fact that the text of the budgetary plan takes positive note of the work done in municipalities to improve the economy. After all, in recent years, municipalities have been greatly strengthened and the growth in operating expenditure has been successfully curbed. The same cost discipline will certainly continue in the municipalities, which will also generate savings for the entire local government economy during this spending limits period. Overall, it is noteworthy how municipalities have made their finances more efficient by pursuing good human resources policies. No terminations or layoffs have been seen on a large scale, good. Third, agriculture. The Committee on Finance takes note of the problems in this area in its report. It is positive that the parties are also jointly concerned about the future of agriculture. That's the way it's supposed to be. In many ways, entrepreneurial income from agriculture has collapsed, and the reasons for the collapse are, overall, those for which farmers themselves are largely innocent. The Committee on Finance rightly states in its report that Finland's agricultural production needs to be safeguarded and that ways of coping with the difficult situation must be found. Some decisions have already been taken: granting guarantees for special liquidity loans, granting relief and interest-rate subsidies for state loans and so on. There have also been a number of support solutions, whole aid solutions, but it is also essential to note that we need to find solutions to ensure the viability of agriculture in the long run. Of course, as Vice-President of the Administrative Committee, I am pleased to welcome the fact that the budget for the police is now increased by EUR 5 million and in the remaining years of the spending limits period by EUR 10 million. The protection police will also receive more funding to secure their activities. But as a whole, of course, the spending limits period for the Ministry of the Interior will be more than challenging within the spending limits. However, the framework rightly recognises that the level of internal security cannot be risked despite economic challenges. In addition to justice and external security, internal security is one of the core tasks that the state itself must carry out in all situations. Mr President! From this speaking room to the President, too, a very good summer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u207	Madam President! First of all, a few words about this whole economic plan. As has been heard here, economic growth seems to be just beginning. However, growth will be so limited in the coming years that it will not be enough to fill the pit caused by the long recession. Growth is by no means sufficient to finance existing structures and services for citizens. That is why, among other things, adjustment is needed. The cuts made over the past year are part of this. In reducing the savings already made, I have at least had to ask myself from time to time whether this is too much, whether this or that savings could be made differently or in some other way. In particular, I am thinking of the elderly, who are suffering a lot, who are receiving a guarantee pension, who are incurring higher medical costs and higher medical fees. Madam Speaker! The adjustment measures are intended to bring together a fall in the cost level of public finances of EUR 4 billion. In the short term, economic growth and employment growth should improve the financing of public finances by an additional EUR 1 to 1.5 billion. Improving growth and competitiveness is therefore one of the main objectives of the government. In the longer term, the government announces that it will seek, among other things, to improve the level of funding on an annual basis by EUR 4 billion by means of cutting down on standards, reducing public tasks, doing things in a new way, digitalisation and social services. The contribution of the wars is crucial. If these succeed, after the middle of next decade it may be possible to reduce the growing debt burden. Madam Speaker! In addition to this general approach, I thought to say a few critical words about the frameworks from just one sector, namely the social economy. After all, the actual social reform is only coming into force at the end of the spending limits period, and savings are expected after a decade. However, as early as next year, savings in health care will be achieved through the reform of the Health Care Act and related regulations. According to the framework text, these are intended to strengthen the hospital network, and these texts are already in the consultation process. It is therefore a question of the first year of the spending limits period, which will, however, help to identify the structures that the forthcoming reform of the province and social security might see. This is where the threat of these reforms lies. If there are too many restrictions on the activities of existing central and regional hospitals in the name of division of labour, the first step will be to run far away from the essential medical services of the citizens. After all, the fact that in social and health care it is special care that we have the working part — whether it should be tackled first or not it would be better to focus on correcting basic health care? Then, in the second stage of the war, the private sector, mainly large international companies, will build its own hospitals to replace the smaller hospitals that have been driven down. This sounds good for citizens who enjoy freedom of choice, but for small and medium-sized domestic companies and the national economy the situation is unhappy, cost-effective and the aim is not to achieve social savings. Madam Speaker! And then there's the third stage. These private hospitals, mainly focused on daytime activities, will absorb the workforce from the public sector so that important public responsibilities, such as on-call or cancer treatments, teaching and research activities, are put at risk. Even the 12 large emergency clinics will be in great trouble with the emergency services in many special areas. Madam President! Now that these laws are being introduced into their final form after consultation, instead of a centralised and categorical division of labour, we should really be able to rely on local and regional skills. In the current medical districts and in the future regions, it is best to know what specific areas each hospital needs to have.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u208	Mr President! First of all, I support Mrs Viitanen's statement of objections Nos 1 and 7. And now to the actual speech. "When we talk about young people, we talk about the future," said writer MariaJotunia. The government says that it is making savings for young people, but I do disagree with how they help our children and our young people. The government has not at all calculated the problems and increasing costs that the savings now made will cause in the future. Now we are making the same mistakes as in the 1990s in dealing with the recession. The National Institute for Health and Welfare (THL) has studied in its research what belongs to children and young people in the 1990s as adults. The results are worrying. As young adults, one fifth of children and young people suffered from mental health problems, nearly one-quarter had income support customers and more than one-quarter had had to deal with the judiciary in one way or another. In particular, difficulties accumulate only for those who have completed primary education. Vocational training seems to protect many problems, and more generally it can be said that education plays an important role in preventing exclusion and promoting well-being. The same THL study also found that childhood poverty is strongly linked to future welfare problems. Long-term poverty during childhood exposes almost all investigated welfare problems such as school drop-out, mental health disorders, income support clients, crime, disability, non-home investments and unemployment. So now we are making the same mistakes, and the poverty of families with children is clearly growing. Parents struggling with financial difficulties often lack the strength to recognize and support the needs of children in the right way. Government decisions to increase group sizes in day-care centres and schools mean that children’s access to personal support also decreases from other adults. The government has still not carried out credible impact assessments of its performed and future cuts. The cuts have been particularly targeted and targeted at those who are currently just above the poverty line and outside the last social security. With the surgeries, more and more people are drifting into poverty. The cuts are cumulatively targeted at the same people and families and can have serious and long-term consequences. Mr President! Everyone understands that, without vocational training, it is difficult to find employment in today's working life. It is therefore worrying that, according to the latest reports, one in five young adults aged 20 to 24 depend only on primary school. Estimates of those aged between 15 and 28 who are not in education and employment range from 71,000 to 118,000, which represents around 8 to 13 % of the total age group. The competence programme for young adults launched during the last government period was effectively targeted at this particular problem. It was used to train young adults without vocational training into the profession. Now the Sipilä Government has decided to terminate this programme and wants to direct this group to apply for other basic vocational training. At the same time, the savings of EUR 190 million in basic vocational education and training in the form of state-funded education will inevitably be reduced. Moreover, the effectiveness of this so-called NAO programme was partly based on the fact that studies were designed to meet the specific needs of young adults. All these measures run counter to the government's top projects aimed at reducing the number of young people not in education and employment. Adding to this the resolution of the Youth Guarantee, it is no wonder that youth unemployment and the exclusion of young people are on the increase again. The allocation of EUR 10 million for the entire Government term for the implementation of the Community guarantee is not sufficient for ever-increasing needs. The much advertised Community guarantee by the government does not bring any help to the situation of young adults without a vocational qualification or young graduates. If this is the government's idea of what is to build the future for the next generations, then it will look bad.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u209	Madam President! There are flashes of light on the horizon. Our economy shows signs of recovery after a long, dark period. Today, we were able to read from different media how the Ministry of Finance clarified its forecast of this year's economic growth. According to Statistics Finland, the private sector now employs more than 40,000 more than one year ago. Although growth is expected to be subdued in the coming years, this is still an excellent sign. When Prime Minister Sipilä's first government began its journey just over a year ago, it was confronted with a very difficult situation. The Finnish economy had been managed with a short-sighted approach, as the decision-making capacity of the governments sitting there had not been enough for those painful but most needed decisions. These decisions were first launched by this government, in its first year the required 4 billion adjustments, regional and social reform, transport projects, transport reforms and finally, after more than a year of negotiation, brought about the creation of a competitiveness pact. These are very important factors for the economic growth of our country. The competitiveness pact alone is estimated to bring work to between 35,000 and 40,000 Finns. At the same time, our economy is stimulated by investments in key projects such as roads. They contribute to improving employment and ensuring the conditions for living in the country as a whole. Mr President! It has been criticised that the government does not create jobs here and now. That is why I would like to make it clear that there are no such magic tricks in the moment to create work. Even an entrepreneur cannot increase his sales by buying his own products. Everyone understands that such growth is not based on genuine demand. Therefore, Finland's only way of achieving sustainable job creation in the long term is to improve our competitiveness. This has also been the basis for the competitiveness pact that has just emerged in our country. It creates a sustainable demand for jobs. Although the competitiveness pact has been reached, the main theme of the coming autumn must be to boost employment growth. The government adheres to its goal of 110,000 jobs, which is quite realistic to achieve, but it is hard work to achieve this. Above all, this requires support for the activities of SMEs, which have the strongest growth potential. The Government has already undertaken this work by preparing its employment and entrepreneurship packages. These will bring the necessary additional attention to the conditions for the creation and growth of enterprises. This preparatory work must continue with determination and speed. The forms of work and entrepreneurship are constantly changing, to which we must also be able to respond as legislators. Our current forms of promoting entrepreneurship do not take sufficient account of this transformation, which is why we need to update our range of means. Similarly, existing jobs must be taken care of. For example, all 300,000 jobs throughout the food chain must be secured by government action in the autumn. This important role will be to resolve the crisis in agriculture. Even during this summer, we may lose many jobs in this sector because of delayed decisions. Domestic food production must be secured, and hard work must be done on it. Mr President! In these speeches, we must look forward vigorously instead of yesterday. It is important that even a small positive is created after difficult times. This creates a cycle that, at its best, feeds itself on ever larger cycles. I therefore believe that over the past year we have witnessed the turning point of our economy towards times of growth. - Have a good summer!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u210	Mr President! I wanted to take the floor when this came to my ears, which we have often talked about as Social Democrats, that we should have taken action in the field of employment. Employment must be done here and now, and it is possible to do so. Firstly, it cannot be that, in this situation, employment appropriations are now being cut. But then there are the measures that create these new jobs, such as investment in home building, mould schools, all of this. It is also possible to take action here and now to improve entrepreneurship. Among other things, we have proposed a tax deduction for hiring the first employee. The model of the slope is that passive unemployment benefit is transferred to active activity. We have calculated that, here and now, our option would create some 35,000 jobs. In other words, it is perfectly possible to do precise jobs here and now, and the concern that we have had is that it has been a year — the government has been sitting around for a year and clumping down the slow tracks, and that is why this problem is here, which is why employment is getting worse, which is why indebtedness is increasing. And here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u211	Mr President! Finland’s employment rates have three specific pain spots. And as Mr Viitanen has said here, they all need different types of specific measures to help them. One is young men. For them, for example, the Youth Guarantee, the more effective measures taken in education and the change in the way in which education is carried out, are the medicines that can bring them to education and thus to the exclusion of work. But the government has been driving down the search for youth work and the social guarantee, which unfortunately represents a major risk to this target group. One is women of childbearing age. We know that the uneven distribution of family leave is what reduces the employment of women of childbearing age. And here the big risk is an increase in day care fees and the fact that the quality of day care is reduced by, for example, raising group sizes, so that up to 40 children may be in the same group when part-time care is involved. That does not attract mothers to work, because the main reason why people think we should stay home is those children, and then, if the quality of day care is reduced, it will affect women’s employment. The third point of pain is older men. It comes to a situation in which the structural changes in our working life have crushed this group with quite a heavy hand. And here, too, the big concern is that when Minister Orpo, the recent Minister of Finance, said that the government has brought a package to facilitate employment, in fact those amendments to the Employment Contracts Act will facilitate dismissal, But, in view of the forecast of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy in terms of employment, it is certainly positive and promising in terms of improving employment. And here we can say that the competitiveness pact that has been concluded by the social partners to help the government brings further benefits. But long-term unemployment is in the hands of the government itself. And it's really threatening to get hurt. Also in that forecast for the TEM, and as the new employment statistics that we have just published show, long-term unemployment has increased sharply. You should remember that there are always three waves of depression. First the economy stalls, then employment weakens, and thirdly the social, most brutal recession. And then, when the rise starts, it comes first to the economy, then there will be an increase in employment, but the cruelest social recession will remain. And now the threat is that the government itself will both deepen and prolong that cruel social recession. If we are thinking of the problem of long-term unemployment, about 1% of people aged over 60 who have been unemployed for 5 years will be employed in the labour market. And even some of this will come from the support labour market rather than from the open labour market. This year 14 people have won the lottery, not more. Around 9% of people who have been unemployed for 2 years are employed in an open labour market. The only hope for the rest is the subsidised labour market and the measures called active labour market policies. Now, over a year of unemployment, people with good skills and ability to work are losing their jobs, but without help, they cannot survive. And that is why it is particularly important that the autumn budget debate not only takes action to increase jobs but also measures to prevent long-term unemployment and help people who have already been exposed to long-term unemployment there. The Government’s structural reforms transfer labour market policy training from TEA to the Ministry of Education and Culture. This in itself may be justifiable. But there is still no model to ensure that unemployed people are able to get into that transferred training. And if this cannot be secured, then the situation of the unemployed, especially those who are long-term unemployed, will deteriorate. And here I appeal to all of you that the criteria will be recorded in such a way that the money for labour market training will not simply be transferred to the Ministry of Education to cover the cuts that have been made in education. Of course, there is a pressing need there too, but even more so is the need for those people who have been unemployed for a long time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u212	Madam President! The Government's report on the budgetary plan for 2017-2020 has been carefully prepared and well-founded. The terrible fact that the Finnish economy has been in decline since 2000 is realism for us and must be taken into account in all economic policy decisions from now on in the following years. The decline in the national economy must be reversed. Finland has no other choice. We have had a very long economic downturn and this is very much due to our own structural problems. In order to achieve new growth and to create new jobs and to create the new jobs that Mr Filatov has just mentioned in his speech, and to create jobs for the unemployed, it will only be created through genuine growth. Of course we also need employment measures, but sustainable employment cannot be achieved except by putting public finances in order. There are no hocus-pocus scones on this issue. The Finnish economy can simply no longer be built on debt. We have already received a warning from all three ratings, that is, our credit rating has been lowered, and that means that the interest rate on our government debt will soon rise and every percentage point that interest will rise in the future will take EUR 1 billion out of Finland's economy, with a debt of EUR 100 billion, 1% will be exactly one billion. It's a real place if that happens. If we do not act ourselves, that day will certainly be met during this parliamentary term. The opposition has presented various miracle drugs to save this situation, but there is no miracle medicine. We all remember the time when Esko Aho’s government corrected the state of Finland’s economy from a disaster to a better growth, and that was a success. Of course we had Nokia at the time, but the terrible and simple truth is that at the time the Finnish economy was saved by two devaluations, the combined effect of which on the external value of the Finnish currency was approximately 40 per cent. They were the devaluations of November 91 and September 92. The latter allowed the markka to float. These devaluations made Finland’s exports go up, and Finland’s economy went up. Now this D pill no longer exists and we have to do that internal devaluation. Its devaluation is called improving competitiveness. In this speech, I would like to thank the social partners and also Prime Minister Sipilä for his tenacity and understanding of the situation that a competitiveness pact was created, but we must remember that the impact of the competitiveness agreement on the Finnish economy is still very small, but the path is very right and well-supported. This means that we must continue to think that our income policy and fiscal policy are sensible, that we can make Finland's economy grow, because there is absolutely no other way to improve our economy and public finances. If we look at those situations in the early '91s and '90s, that's when we were really deep in the swamp. It can be said that, fortunately, we are not as deep now as we were then, but the same elements are at stake at the moment. I hope that the opposition will also take this matter seriously and recognise the facts, because it is also the beginning of all wisdom in politics. The government’s objective is to raise the employment rate to 72%, which in itself would make the current state of public finances much better. Any unemployed person who is made to work and pay taxes will, of course, be eliminated from social contributions then, unemployment benefit contributions. It is the road Finland must take. Finland pays around EUR 5 billion annually for unemployment, which is exactly EUR 5 billion too much. Through every unemployed person who can get to work, and precisely because our own economy has gone up and exports have gone downhill, we are creating that new growth. It should be borne in mind that at the moment the current growth rate in the national economy is just over 1.4%, according to studies, is based mainly on the functioning of the domestic market. More needs to be done to make exports work, the export markets need to be driven, and thus new growth needs to start. Unfortunately, there is no other way. Since in due course we chose this euro, which we are now living in, and whose policy we are implementing, and we no longer have the opportunity to change the external value of money, we must do the internal cost reduction, i.e. improve competitiveness by the means that Finland itself has. The place where the improvement is made is the Chamber of the Finnish Parliament. In this Chamber, decisions are made to make Finland’s economy rise. The time for the hocuscosts is over.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u213	Mr President! In the forecasts we received today from the Ministry of Finance, Finland's economy is growing better than before, estimated at 1.5 per cent. We can each see the improvement in investment and growth prospects in a number of areas. Construction is stimulating, and companies see their own orders and sales prospects as better than before. In my country, Central Finland, for example, there has been such a good and positive momentum and development in sight. We therefore have many favourable prospects in the national economy at the moment. There have also been small but still uncertain indications of better employment. I am particularly pleased that we have been able to see improvements, especially in youth unemployment, which has been a cause for great concern here today. It is very important that once the government has set itself the objective of raising the employment rate, we can in particular improve the employment situation of young people. The concern that has been expressed here is justifiable. The cost to society of the exclusion of young people, both from the labour market and from other forms of social exclusion, is enormous and therefore the objective of increasing the employment rate is also very important for young people. Mr President! As part of public finances, the finances of municipalities have also been quite tense in recent years. Municipal decision-makers have been faced with many hard decisions. We should remember that, in the big picture, employment development, once it starts to improve, is also reflected with time in the local government economy and in the public finances as a whole in a positive way. I would also stress that the Government of Juha Sipilä has adhered to its policy not to increase the cost burden of municipalities, and this objective should continue to be maintained if there is no more resources for municipalities to carry out new tasks. This is a prerequisite for managing stable local government finances. The Sipilä Government also implements significant growth efforts. Transport investments are being made even though the correction debt cannot be fully recovered. However, we have stressed the potential of the industry to direct these transport investments. The importance of the competitiveness pact cannot be underestimated. The adoption of the agreement and its coverage will bring the necessary stability to Finland’s economy. I believe that in the next few years the agreement will reach an unforeseeable value when we see the steady development of our cost competitiveness. This agreement will create a picture of Finland as a stable and safe country, and I believe that foreign investors and those who are considering investing their capital in Finland will see this, because this agreement has already attracted more attention in Europe. It is precisely this stability and positive image and development that this agreement aims to achieve, and it is great that this agreement has created it. I think it is important that we can continue to make these contributions to growth. For example, construction plays a key role in economic growth. The Parliament recently approved the so-called ten-year interest subsidy model, with which the ARA supports affordable housing construction. One of the key objectives of the model is to accelerate housing construction and create opportunities for more affordable housing. The best way to do that is to create new housing supply and competition for the rental housing market in those areas where housing shortages are greatest. Mr President! It is also important that we continue to develop new, lighter ways of supporting different types of affordable housing and construction for special groups. For example, the need for senior housing in our ageing country will grow, and the need for such unhindered and unhindered and communal senior housing will increase in the sights of growth centres and rural district centres. We must examine whether the ARA can provide more flexible support for these projects of general interest. Mr President! At the end of the day. The government's goal is to create 110,000 new jobs. Success in this objective and adherence to this objective of growth is the most important thing in order to move forward with fiscal consolidation and to meet these objectives of the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u214	Mr President! Representative Huhtasaari had a critical EU speech, a very good speech, already here before. And Mrs Juvonen had a speech criticising the nurseship, and I can sign her speech as a nurse myself. As we heard from Mr Kankaanniemi's group speech, much good has happened in the course of the year. The government has intervened in the pace of debt, the competitiveness pact has been signed and the key projects are creating new growth. In addition, housing and other construction has accelerated and the transport infrastructure has been invested historically. The necessary and courageous reforms have required very difficult savings and cuts. However, the goal of the government, namely to put the Finnish economy on a sustainable footing, is a good and worthwhile one. A strong and sustainable economy can provide its citizens with more jobs and a brighter future. Everyone benefits from a strong economy, especially the disadvantaged in society. Nor will a strong and sustainable economy become in debt. It would not be fair to owe future generations more sovereign debt. I hope we all agree on this. Fortunately, the most painful expenditure cuts have now been implemented and the government can focus more strongly on the real objectives of improving employment. There is a lot of work to be done here, but we believe that the goal of 110,000 new jobs and a 72% employment rate will be achieved. The government is certainly not compromising its objectives. Reforms, such as the Employment and Entrepreneurial Package, will be used as means of achieving these objectives. Thank you, Minister Lindström, for this. The opposition reform seems to be horrifying. As soon as someone presents new ways of increasing employment and prosperity, the opposition will begin to paint fears of wrecking the welfare society. The opposition, painting threats does not contribute to the development of well-being. Today we have heard many criticisms of the budgetary plan, including from the Social Democrats, the Greens and the Left. All these parties were active in the previous government. During the previous government, GDP contracted, central government debt fell at a record rate, EUR 25 billion, competitiveness collapsed and unemployment increased. Mr President! The competitiveness pact should be welcomed. For the tenacity, thank you to the government and, of course, to the trade unions. Although the agreement did not meet its original objectives, it restored trust in society and made our competitiveness more competitive with a giant leap. The possibility of tax reductions for middle and low incomes was also opened when the agreement was reached. Investment in Finland and employment can now progress more easily. The objectives of this budgetary plan are to be welcomed. The internal and external security emphasised by the Finns of Finland will receive sufficient resources. The number of cops stays at 7,000. The plight of agriculture must also be borne in mind, and this is significant. Finnish food production must be guaranteed. The decision to increase the fees for day care was postponed until autumn, and that is good. We'll have to rethink that. The middle-income people in particular are hard hit by it, and it must be remembered that the good thing about it is that there will be relief for those on low incomes. And at the end of the day, I would like to raise one point. Mr President, the adequacy of the rehabilitation budget for veterans: the budgetary plan and the draft budget for 2017 provide for the rehabilitation of veterans and the provision of veteran services in line with the need for services. This is a very good decision. As of 1 March 2017, the disadvantage rate of the war invalids will be reduced from 15% to 10%. The Committee on Finance has also highlighted the fact that next year will be Finland's centenary. One critical position must also be taken. We still have nine months to do this, and we have a lot of veterans who would need that extra money now, today. I've been in contact with a 97-year-old veteran and a 103-year-old veteran. Their situation has been very difficult, and now there has been some relief, fortunately. Veteran counselors do a good job. Still not everyone entitled to rehabilitation has been caught. Veteran counselors do a great job. I would like to see this funding rushed to the veterans of our wars. There's no time to wait. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u215	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to support the proposals made by Mr Uotila. In the context of this budgetary plan, much has been discussed and many speeches have been made on the Competitiveness Pact. As it has been praised so far, I would like to see at least one critical speech in the Minutes on the competitiveness pact. Indeed, as Mr Hoskonen has pointed out here, it is a policy of internal devaluation in which the Member States of the European Union are now seeking to compete — not with knowledge or the quality of products and services, but by cutting wages, cutting social security and cutting public services. This competitiveness pact has also been praised as a victory for the contractual society. I do not think it is possible to talk about the victory of the contractual society, given the situation and context in which this agreement was reached. In other words, the background to this was the very strict guidelines adopted by the government last year on the reduction of labour costs and the government's choice to threaten employees' organisations with forced laws. In practice, a situation was created in which the trade union movement had no genuine freedom of choice or genuine freedom of agreement. In any case, the workers lost. It has also been mentioned that this agreement will go down in history. If it falls into history, then it will remain a historic solution that weakens the position of employees. Thus, in 2016, Finland will have a policy, a competitiveness policy based on cutting education, research, product development, cutting wages and extending working hours. I believe that this is the recipe of the past world and does not fit in with the society that Finland is, nor does it take into account the strengths on which and on what basis the success of this country has been built up so far. Rather, policy decisions should now be made which are the opposite, i.e. in the short term it would be justified from the point of view of economic growth to support domestic demand and purchasing power and, in the long term, to invest in education, product development and research, in order to support this restructuring of Finland's industrial structure and increase high productivity jobs in the Finnish export industry. Today's VM economic forecast states that this competitiveness pact will weaken public finances in the short term and will also weaken economic growth in the near future — a forecast that I believe supports my view of the impact of this agreement. The extension of working time does not increase employment; in many areas it may rather lead to the opposite development. In addition, as has been said, employees' incomes and earnings will be significantly cut, so that, once again, large transfers can be made from employees to employers. So, once again, Finnish employees are required to be flexible and understanding in a difficult economic situation in order to transfer additional money to Finnish employers. Well, this logic on which this is based is the same as it was in the past when transfers were made in the hope of dynamic effects, i.e. once again waiting for the tens of thousands of jobs which are now promised against this transfer, which were also promised in connection with the cancellation of the Kela levy, which was promised in connection with the reduction of the corporation tax and which were also promised in connection with this employment and growth pact, but have not been seen until now when unemployment statistics are seen. In addition to this, the Competitiveness Pact is also a quite significant step backwards in terms of promoting equal pay when it strikes particularly hard on the public sector, where four out of five low-paid workers are also women. From the point of view of trust, it is certainly a good thing to reach an agreement, but I believe that we must be able to distinguish a good agreement from a bad one. Among other things, the Finnish Research Institute has well stated that this competitiveness agreement is based on an incorrect picture of Finland's economy. Since wage developments in our rival countries are much harder than in Finland at the moment, Finland’s competitiveness would also have been improved by far less drastic measures than was now the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u216	Madam President! As a first step, I support the statements made by Mr Yanar in protest 2. Mr President! I was asked just before the beginning of this sitting what was particularly left in my mind as a Member of Parliament for the first term. I didn't know how to name a single thing, I named a set of things. In this debate, too, one of the main causes of disappointment, of pain, is the public finances and the political decisions to be taken about them. It has been hard to see the hardness of the government’s overall line. I expected moderation and a better impact assessment, listening to experts and well-founded criticism. At least I expected that, in the best possible way, the best efforts would be made to target the cuts as fairly as possible so that they would not hit the lowest and middle incomes. This is what I expected for Finnish people — all ordinary people, pensioners, families with children, students and workers. I wasn't expecting the cold ride this government has been offering. This direction in Finland is not very hopeful. I have considered Finland to be the backbone not only of keeping all people in a boat together, of fostering a Nordic welfare society, but also of international agreements, global responsibility and humanity, as regards fellow people, but also outside our borders, such as developing countries and crisis areas. Unfortunately, when it comes to the government's economic policies, it has to be said that this time is probably over in politics. It's a big and really unfortunate change in the line. I have not thought that we could go and talk about public finances without worrying. Neither I nor the Green Parliamentary Group have suggested that we do nothing. We have suggested adapting the country's economy, but doing so with a more moderate, reasonable timetable, so as not to create any more problems that will only recur and appear as harmful long-term changes in society as a whole. Mr President! It is a political choice to decide where to cut, where to obtain more tax revenue, where to reduce taxation and where to invest more financially. Without exception, these choices are long-acting and often difficult to assess. However, it is not very difficult to weigh the value choice, for example, whether we should only pinch more from families with children, education, research, students, low-income and middle-income workers and pensioners. Or should we, for example, cut the tax subsidies for energy-intensive industries that are harmful to the environment, such as the poor economy and climate policy in the wrong direction, for example, by a couple of hundred million euros? Or should all effective measures be taken to curb the shadow economy, which in the first instance require, among other things, additional funding to re-source the fight against the shadow economy of the police, the Tax Administration and a lack of activity at EU level? Yes, I should. These are only individual withdrawals from alternative central government guidelines. Mr President! I wonder if we can afford to increase inequality in Finnish society. My own assessment is that we cannot afford it, on the contrary. The current situation is already in such a hurry to reverse the trend of disadvantaged citizens, to balance income differentials and to strengthen opportunities for a good future for every citizen, a safe environment for growth, equal and high-quality training opportunities, adequate income and work, and also a dignified old age. It doesn't look like it. These goals run away. This inequality is shown to be only to a large extent increased by the heavy efforts made in the field of public finances. So is there anything good to say? At least there's always a little improvement. The government, too, has been correcting its policy and is still considering withdrawing some of its ill-founded proposals after listening to the criticism and after finding out, among other things, the impact assessments carried out by the opposition. Well, that's something, isn't it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u217	Madam President! Maybe first the realistic part. The Finnish economy is still in a very challenging situation. As Mr Heinonen said earlier in our group speech, the 4 billion level of adjustment to be made during the parliamentary term must be adhered to and debt should be broken down as planned. It will continue to be an absolute minimum target for this term of government. Let it also be a signal to the rest of the world: we are sticking to these promises of economic recovery. On the other hand, Mr President, there are signs of slightly better economic growth in recent years, and this will certainly be helped, for example, by the competitiveness pact, which is expected to create some 35,000 new jobs. Thank you very much for this agreement to all the parties involved. And, as you can expect, all the actions of the next governments must be focused on improving employment. The fact is that it is not possible to finance our welfare society of the current size with the current employment rate. In this case, we are talking about education, health care and various forms of income transfers, for example. That is why employment must be brought up while the development of public expenditure is kept under control. Of course, the fact that the local agreement now unfortunately watered down during the negotiation phase of the competitiveness agreement was disappointing, as at the same time it watered down the more flexible model of non-organised companies to face various cyclical failures. Of course, the employment and entrepreneurship package brought to Parliament by the government in spring also contains good ways to strengthen employment. In addition, the proposal to extend the probationary periods, to facilitate time-limits and to reduce the readmission obligation under the Government Programme will certainly also increase the number of job opportunities. Nevertheless, I believe that further action is urgently needed to achieve the government's courageous target of 72% employment rate at this time and 110000 new jobs in full. We definitely need new measures in the autumn budget debate, and the Committee on Budgets is also encouraging the government to do this. Similarly, in the run-up to July, we will be publishing proposals for achieving the ambitious employment objective set for the At the same time, I also encourage other parties to do the same thing. All the different ideas now need to be considered in order to improve employment. On the side of entrepreneurship, the positive news is that the government is finally bringing a targeted tax package to entrepreneurs to the autumn budget line. For example, the long-term contribution-based value added tax, the facilitation of generational change situations, the increase in household deductions and entrepreneurship reduction will improve the ability of companies to grow and employ. However, further measures in this sector will have to be considered during the autumn. Mr President! Over the past year, the Government has worked hard to change the direction of Finland's economy. This is now a success, and Finland is now moving in the right direction. Now it is important to make sure that the movement does not fade in the right direction. I don't think that's gonna happen with this government. The difficulties still ahead can be overcome because the government and its decision-makers have the will, the objectives, the courage and the ability to decide.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u218	Mr President, Mr Värderade fru talman! Jag ska börja med att understöda det av Joakim Strand framförda förslaget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u219	Mr President! In fact, it is also good to remember and note why this budgetary plan has been introduced in Finland. For us, the structure of the public sector is perhaps so small in European comparison that we have been excluded from these spending limits procedures and other budgetary control for a long time from local government finances. This sector of over 40 billion is not sufficiently well taken into account. Now, this budgetary plan brings the kind of governance that has long been needed to this whole of public finances. In fact, there has been a little too much focus in Finland only on the management of central government finances. Our budget of just over 50 billion has been a little over-focused, leaving it 40 billion local government finances out of control and management. Here, one of the most important, major problems relates to this so-called financial principle, which will become the Constitution, which means that Parliament here cannot define the tasks in the local government economy as much as it pleases, new public tasks, unless there is sufficient funding. This has in fact led to the situation that Parliament, the state, has defined tasks for municipalities with limited funding, in fact, for decades. This has resulted in these on the part of the municipal sector being financed by increasing municipal taxes and, in a way, the State has been able to slip away from this financial responsibility. This is a major problem. In fact, this has been a little Greek economic management, one of which decides on expenditure and then the other has to pay for most of it. This makes sense that this budgetary plan, little one, will improve this control and will lead to a much more sustainable management of the whole. The economic situation as a whole is very difficult, but all these signs have been seen for a long time. In fact, we have had a bit of such a 15-year collective error for a long time that there has been a little too loosely increased public spending in Finland, although at the same time we have seen at the beginning of the 21st century that the productivity development of companies has been falling. Our few key export sectors will be faced with very important, very important competition situations if certain measures of digitalisation come properly into the world market. This transformation took place at the same time as all the other features of the financial crisis hit it. When these coincide, we are in this mess where we are. Those public tasks should not have been increased as much as they were added in the 21st century. In fact, we should have seen more rigorously that, in the future, our social expenditure in particular will increase so significantly that the tasks relating to local government finances should not have been increased year after year. Unfortunately, the last parliamentary term is a sad example of an attempt to reduce public tasks by one billion, but it was increased by 400 million. This must certainly be borne by all the parties that were in the government during the last parliamentary term, and especially by the democrats. In other words, no party in the government will be able to slip out of this responsibility. Well, now that we are in this situation where we are, we must of course remember that some of the economic issues are not in their own hands and some are. Monetary policy, raw materials prices, export demand in the world for our current export products are not very much in our own hands, but that does not mean that we should not make significant renovations to our economic base, even though many things are in external hands. Now this government has, quite rightly, left behind the assumption that all measures will be taken to maintain control of public sector expenditure, expenditure and, at the same time, to reform the foundations of employment. One more key thing. There have already been many speeches and so forth on the competitiveness pact, but one of the things I would like to see here is the call for better employment and, in particular, better employment for small and medium-sized enterprises, the fact that those who speak here for employment and, in particular, for the eradication of poverty, would also try to promote the best medicine for employment, that is to say the promotion of local agreement, that working hours, wages and salaries should be much more flexible to agree on at that local level. Our enterprise structure is becoming small-scale, and that means that the importance of large companies in employment will be reduced, and that again means that more local agreements must definitely be made. So this is the key to these very, very many questions. Pay support models are such side-playing in these then, but this is the big picture that should be promoted. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u220	Mr President! When we talk about the budgetary plan, we should only talk about employment. Unemployment pays us every year what the government parties complain about a year of debt. At the end of May, the Employment and Economic Development Office had 332,100 unemployed job seekers. That's 2,500 more than a year ago. The number of unemployed job seekers aged under 25 was 1,700 higher than in May of the year before, i.e. 41,800. The number of long-term unemployed, i.e. those who were unemployed for at least one year continuously, was 125,000, which is 19,500 more than one year earlier. The number of unemployed job seekers aged over 50 was also 125,000, or 1,400 higher than in the previous year at the same time. Mr President! At the end of May of this year, the number of services falling to the activation rate was 121,600, which is 3,200 fewer than one year ago. These services include, for example, pay subsidy, labour market training, work trial and self-study. In 2015, 161,000 persons received an invalidity pension. Of them, 20100 received part-time disability pension and would have liked to work again. The loss of labour input of people on disability pension in 2012 amounted to EUR 8 billion — in one year. That's 8 billion. This was told yesterday by Minister of Interior Paula Risikko at a rehabilitation seminar in the Finnish Parliament's Citizens' Info. All the government needs to do is focus on this one thing, part-time disability pensioners, and you will receive EUR 8 billion more money for public finances. The Government has a leading project called the Part-Workable Path to Work, which aims to promote employment and reduce disability and unemployment expenditure. It is a pity that a leading project with good objectives cannot be achieved when the government does not invest in employment. For example, pay subsidies would be a very small lever compared to the benefits. I also believe that the state must set an example in the employment of part-time workers. It is possible to tailor the tasks of a person in such a way that his/her skills can be used despite illness or disability. Indeed, I have been appalled by the policy of the state-owned company Post in this winter that part-time workers should be fired after 4 months if they are unable to carry out the duties assigned by the management. This is completely contrary to the government's top project. I wonder why Prime Minister Sipilä does not direct state-owned companies to implement the government's own objectives. Here's where the repair shop is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u221	Madam President! Finland’s public finances have been in a very difficult situation for a long time. Since the financial crisis that began in 2008, our economy has been falling down and down. After the financial crisis, the recovery helped for some time, but it never intervened in our structural problems, nor was it able to reform them — the major structural issues that are, in fact, absolutely necessary for the carrying capacity and renewal of the economy. Unfortunately, they have been expected for far too long. It was not an easy starting point for this government a year ago because unemployment had increased, employment had fallen, we had more debt, and the national economy was always negative, or the deficit was constantly increasing. Big steps have been taken and, in my opinion, the competitiveness pact is actually one of the greatest achievements of European social partners in the last few years if we also put it in the international perspective. Well, it is extraordinary that, on a voluntary basis, we are prepared to compromise on our own interests, on the status achieved, in the face of solidarity, in the interests of society as a whole. It has been a tough decision for many of the social partners, and I do appreciate very much the length of time that has been shown in our society. For my part, I believe that there will be a lot of talk about the competitiveness pact in the coming years. The fact that we are now achieving very quickly with regard to the cost of labour in Sweden and Germany is no small thing. They are one of our most important analogue countries. But, of course, the competitiveness pact alone does not solve all aspects of working life. There is still much open and developing: many things related to the transformation of working life, well-being at work, the reconciliation of work and family — there is a huge amount of work to be done. I also believe that the government's basic income project will respond to this change in working life and to the numerous incentive traps we see. Hopefully, in time, the basic income test will also become established and will become part of our social security system. Mr President! With our public finances heavily adjusted — 4 billion is no small thing — of course, in the short term it will affect our economic growth. But, of course, we should always talk about the long perspective of how we leave things to the next ones in better shape. It is not just a matter of short-term profit, it is a question of how Finland will manage for decades to come. That is the line that this government is now taking, not just how we will do in the next elections, but how this country will do from one election to another, whoever is in power. That is why very large and significant political, ideologically important contributions have also been made. However, almost EUR 50 million has been put into family and family care during a very difficult period. Veterans have been given very important contributions for as long as they are among us. I do not think it is small talk about the long-awaited funding for basic road maintenance, which has been a very large measure for this government. There are emerging prospects for growth. I would say that Finland is gradually starting to turn from such a spiral of obsolescence and negativity to a path of positive growth. In the figures published by the Ministry of Finance for this year, too, our growth is 1.4 per cent better than in the previous year. Growth will be moderate for the next two years, but in any case it will be positive. This is the turn that has been awaited, the work that has been done on it, and I believe that the budding growth will show the way and that with enterprise and work this country will also rise from this recession.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u222	Mr President! In this area of the budgetary plan, I will now pay particular attention to environmental and natural resources issues. So, first of all, on the environmental side, in relation to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the allocation of resources for the environment and nature conservation is essential. After all, in this difficult economic situation of ours, we should come from that side and see exactly where it makes sense to put the money. The funds will be reduced on this site, but we must bear in mind that even if the new protected areas are no longer financed so much, those protected areas exist, they have already been financed, they are not going anywhere. However, the number is constantly increasing, even if it is a smaller amount to finance the new projects in the future. Let's see how much money it makes sense to put on Metso. Maybe it would make sense for a little bit to add them. What is essential is that we now become Finland’s 100th-year national park. It was decided by Hossa National Park. The budget has been allocated to it, and it is hoped that it will also be possible to develop economic activities further along these lines. One essential aspect of our environment is the protection of the Baltic Sea. The amount of money allocated to the protection of the Baltic Sea is difficult to see from these economic calculations, because it is very much distributed to different sectors. Now, what annoys me about the Baltic Sea is that, in all matters affecting water bodies, it seems that agriculture is supposed to be the only polluter, but we now have to pay attention to the fact that there are so many other polluters in the Baltic Sea than agriculture. In other words, we should pay particular attention and study the waste emissions from the built environment, the built society. You don't count a lot of hooligans. There is a huge amount of room for improvement and improvement in sewage treatment plants. So, as a whole, we have a lot of work to do to clean up the Baltic Sea. Then, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, we have an essential issue. After all, housing focuses more and more on larger housing centres. This is a global phenomenon, and we may not be able to stop it, but our society should think about how we can calm this situation down. Overall, the cost of living must be reduced. The first point is, of course, that we should have affordable housing. New tools must be found to create affordable buildings. Then the other is the repair work. At the moment, renovation is already being done more than new construction, but the cost of renovation is also worth considering how to make them low. The cost of housing as a whole is increasing and increasing at the moment, but the positive thing is that we are now paying attention to energy efficiency and energy solutions and, indeed, to a great deal of the things that we are using more and more domestic energy and that the buildings will then be as healthy and energy efficient as possible. The fourth point is that there is a controlled disintegration. I mean, is it necessarily reasonable for us to focus on all activities and people living in the urban area, because not everyone wants to live here? There are very many people who would like to live in places other than these places where we live — places where we already have a lot of built - up housing. It is our job to really think with Finnish reason about what kind of activities could be handled in the right way in areas other than urban areas. Well, we are already working on issues such as changes to the Land Use and Building Act: how holiday homes are turned into fixed dwellings and so on. Then, however, job development is at the heart of what we need to take forward. So how can we get the bioeconomy, which is one of our government's top projects, the natural resources of the whole country developed and taken forward as workplace activities? So, first of all, the forest, 100 new products from the forest: How do we get more building material from the forest, how do we get the modern forest industry to develop, how do we get special paper production to develop? Today, wood is a substitute for plastic. Clothes, viscous, medicines — almost anything from the tree. Above all, energy issues. These are the things we have in front of us on the environmental side. We have a lot of great things to do and a lot to do, and I believe that this plan of ours will also make a sensible move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u223	Madam President! I will start with the quote by Rovio Vesterbacka from today's interview: "We have brought about an insane cultural revolution. The Finnish generation of slush and youth is the best in the world. Attitudes and everything, not afraid of anything. And then when I look at that miracle thing these guys are doing. Six more minutes of working time is absurd and foreign to enthusiastic workers." So I saw Rovio's Vesterback, who probably knows something about the business world. I have been listening here for some time now to a debate that often defends reforms and accuses the left of being so negative and so glum about these reforms. When we talk about reforms here, it usually means improving competitiveness by reducing wages or otherwise reducing working conditions. In the 1970s, Eva, the business delegation, demanded the same thing several times. It can be said that this reform is just as fresh and new thinking as Marion Rungin Tom tom, who represented us in the Eurovisions in 1976, I think. So not the most recent thing — in fact, it has been virtually the most recent thing that has been taken away throughout industry in this country. Then what would really be new? What would be the structural reforms that would take this country's economy forward? Well, there have been many of them in the discussions, but they are usually presented in side observations, in counterarguments, in some margin that unfortunately rarely gets into this toilet. These include, for example, the strong promotion of small-scale power plant production to such an extent that it challenges large and centralised energy production. This is the development of the regulatory base for the sharing economy at the level that actual economic development would require at the moment. Here we are hopelessly behind. It could be the free distribution of intellectual resources. After all, these costs of copying are very close to zero, and when they are often linguistic benefits, they are also a competitive advantage relatively well protected within the national economy. Above all, it would be the dismantling of social security bureaucracy. Our system is completely kafka-like. If the mere application for income support is dozens of pages, and often a person who also receives one or more other social benefits is applying for income support, then the whole of this card house system is not going to be put at risk by accepting work, let alone by starting some business that is not known about the future. It is the largest single passive friction factor in our system. Above all, it could be the courage to get out of the old categories that have been repeated all day. It must be understood that tomorrow's labour market is no longer a dividing factor. Nor can we talk about the division between entrepreneurs and employees in the sense that our parents and grandparents are used to. The category of unemployed and employed will also be defined in a new way, which is why the debate on employment must also be completely rethought. On the other hand, not everything old is bad, even though Eva's statements may be. We have a few truths that have not become obsolete yet: the things that have been experienced, which must be defended and which are under-represented or do not appear at all in the paper under discussion. We know that behind a healthy economy most of the time there is a trained and healthy population, a small wealth gap, an open society and a political decision-making that understands that the economy is an instrument, not an end. To conclude, I would like to remind you that all forecasts, both right and left, warn us at the moment that we are likely to have a long period of slow growth, that the growth that is taking place will take place in services where productivity will not explode in the same way that it has been possible to produce goods. A lot of people also think that we may have high unemployment, if we stick to these old categories, for a long time to come. And these are factors that challenge us to think about the whole of public finances in a completely new way compared to what still exists in the 70s. I really hope that when the word "new" is used, it will not be used by looking over the shoulder backwards, but really and boldly by taking advantage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u224	Mr President! I had to ask for an answer, because I think the beginning of Mr Kontula's speech, which described working time and its change, is exactly what we should be thinking about. We should not be asking ourselves whether working time is more than 6 minutes a day or possibly 6 hours a week, but what working time usually is, how it is flexible, how it changes and how the whole concept of working and leisure time has become fragile in the middle. It would therefore be more important to consider how to reform the entire working time legislation in such a way as to deal with changes in working time in categorical terms in minutes. How do we take into account the fact that we have a lot of staff and a lot of workers in the higher professions who spend more time on a plane than they do in the actual workplace, and travel times are in no way taken into account in the burden of work? There are many flexibility needs that help people to cope, but also those that bring good and flexibility to the entrepreneur's side when seasonal or working-day variations are high.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u225	Madam President! I was delighted that Mr Kontula, in his own speech — which, of course, was quite critical of the government in the opposition style, but nevertheless — also raised the issue of small-scale power plants in relation to energy production. I can say as a comfort that the government is actually doing a great deal about this. After all, the whole energy revolution that this government programme contained — the fact that we want to get rid of fossil fuels, the fact that we want decentralised energy production, the fact that, in due course, a central government has achieved, for example, a blending obligation in relation to biofuels — is actually one thing, which will lead to our energy sector being more fragmented. About reconciling work, entrepreneurship, family and many things: yes, in my opinion, the basic safety test is one of the things that is historic in this country and was carried out under the leadership of this government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u226	Mr President! Two interesting comments arose from Mr Kontula's speech. The first is that this question of cost-competitiveness is not, in a way, an all-embracing and decisive factor. When Vesterbacka has said that 6 minutes will not solve anything, it is not necessarily in the creative sectors, in the gaming industry and elsewhere that it will determine whether some innovations are being created. It will continue to decide in the traditional, old industries where a product is produced on a leash forward, and that number of minutes may be quite important in it as a whole. I agree that it is partly the model of an old union, but that is also what is needed in Finland. Another thing I can fully agree with is that the rules of the sharing economy, the common frame and the frame work must be created in Finland, because it is the direction of the new economy and the rules and framework must also be created in Finland. Some attempts are now being made with the traffic cycle, but there are many other sectors that still need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u227	Mr President! I am very pleased, Mr Kulmuni, that the government is doing something, but unfortunately so little that it does not really care even about its own report on the plans for public finances to write it either about its small-scale production or about its basic income rather than on the margins. Perhaps this is because small-scale power plant production is concentrated on bio-production, which is therefore, in the same way as nuclear power, an intermediate stage. If we actually put the Paris Agreement into practice, we will also have to give up biopower over time. Similarly, on the basis of the basic result, we are conducting a very cautious experiment which does not actually even make it possible to assess the basic income as those researchers would like it to. It is a good thing that these are here, but they are too little, too slow, too late.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u228	Madam President! The Government has come up with solutions on major issues, and Finland finally has a direction. The Competitiveness Pact has been signed, the reform of social and health services and also the regional reform is progressing, the adjustment of EUR 4 billion has now been agreed, the savings targets are being adhered to and debt is falling. The competitiveness agreement that was just mentioned in this Chamber took some time, but I would remind you that the agreement was reached seven months before the government programme was signed up. The agreement showed that Finland is still in a position to agree. Of course, we would have achieved different results through stubborn and tough policies, but we chose the path of agreement. France, for example, has wondered about the content of the competitiveness pact: how did this come about by agreeing in Finland? This agreement will bring confidence, stability and predictability to the economy of our country as a whole. This is an important message for investors. I would like to thank our Prime Minister and all sides for their tough and determined action. That was really what was needed to find a solution. Despite the state of the economy, we have also received good news from the turn of the economy: According to Statistics Finland, the private sector now employs more than 40,000 more than a year ago. Domestic demand has recovered slightly and economic growth is real. Madam President! Improving employment, and in particular the employment of young people and the long-term unemployed, must be the top priority in the August budget line. We must also continue to improve the operating conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, the difficult situation in agriculture must continue to be eased with a really fast timetable, and the more employment is improved, the more sustainable we can take care of our society, each other, the weaker and keep this Finland whole. The Government has decided to invest EUR 3 billion in roads, railways and other routes, as well as in telecommunications connections. Of course, these themselves will stimulate the economy and improve employment, but they will also safeguard the chances of living in different parts of Finland. Investment has been carefully selected based on the needs of business and the economy. For example, in Sulkava Vekarasalmi the ferry is replaced by a bridge. This investment of 19.4 million in the fifth longest bridge in Finland makes life much easier for the residents of the region and especially for wooden trucks in the south-east-west direction in the middle of our Metsä-Suomi. The investment is, of course, a local but important experiment in increasing the vitality of islanders. I hope that replacing the Loss with the bridges will get an increase this season. There are also prospects for growth, where the most up-to-date proposal from the Government to amend the Land Use and Building Act submitted by the Ministry of the Environment to the consultation today is the dismantling of standards. In accordance with the Government Programme, the aim of the proposal is to streamline the decision processes of planning and construction. This proposal introduces changes to more than 20 sections of the Land Use and Building Act, the most important of which are decentralised construction, the role of the Centre for Economic Development, Transport and the Environment, the regulation of large retail entities and the reduction of station planning. This includes, of course, the reduction in regulation and, for example, the easier transformation of leisure homes into permanent residences. Madam President! I attach great importance to the fact that new savings in education and research are not being made. Education and investing in it has already taken our country really far, and the high level of education is really well known outside our country, thanks to the results of the Pisa research. The marketing of educational exports has already been done, and now we must also make full use of this opportunity over the next few years. — — — — Have a nice summer, everybody.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u229	Mr President! During the euro period, Finland should have done what all the economic research institutes and indeed the social partners and parties knew when joining the euro, i.e. to take more care of cost developments. We did not make our labour market model flexible, taking company-specific competitiveness into account. In part, we also made excessive wage increases, especially in relation to productivity developments, not only in quantitative terms but specifically in relation to productivity developments. And these are indeed some of the mistakes that are being corrected. This previous speech pointed out that it is good that the social partners have reached an agreement on improving cost competitiveness. I agree that it is a good thing that they have come to an agreement, but at the same time we must remember that it took five years, for example, to negotiate a pension reform when perhaps Matti Vanhanen, on the Rukka hangilla, said that this should be done. All the economic research institutes knew, all the parties knew what to do, but the SDP decided that it would not be done in four years. Fortunately, it was done now during the time of Juha Sipilä and the National Coalition Party and the Finnish National Government. It has been nice to hear that even the SDP MPs are thanking this reform here today for the fact that it is a good thing that we got it under this other government, because it is not possible to do this under their government. This is the same pattern, which, of course, is repeated in many other countries. The demars are now very grateful for the fact that exports are taking place in Germany. But there should be practically the same reforms that are being proposed in Finland, that is to say more local flexibility and thus more employment. How do we get more investment? There has also been a great deal of emphasis in this Chamber on the need to revitalize and revitalize. The government has taken a number of stimulus measures: huge investments in road projects have been brought forward for cyclical reasons, repair construction has been carried out and the level of road investment has been improved, including in the direction of South Savo, more than a hundred million large Vitostie projects, South Karelia, and many others. In practice, these investments are being speeded up at the moment. One of the things that is lacking in this budgetary plan is that originally, when the budgetary plan programme was introduced in Finland and planned in the last parliamentary term in that government, the purpose was to build a detailed plan there, including how to implement the local government financial position. If we have the objective of improving the local government finances, even in the next three to four years, then we should have taken precise definitions of what tasks and when to remove them or how to achieve them. And this should perhaps be specified now at this stage in the parliamentary process of the budgetary plan. I myself would like to see the little one rushed into this dismantling of the functions and standards of the municipalities and, in particular, the work under the responsibility of Minister Vehviläinen. These must now move forward, otherwise the savings targets for local government finances may also be slightly watered down. Sote is a giant entity which is also a major part of the budgetary plan. In fact, this should also be seen as a major part of economic policy. It is an extremely important part of economic policy because our greatest tax pressures at the moment, especially on the income tax side, relate precisely to how the cost development of social and health services can be managed. And that is why it is precisely the savings effect of the social welfare reform that should be given special attention in the consultation that is about to begin. And it must also draw attention to the fact that the freedom of choice model will become one that will also bring savings. The competition mechanism must work, comparability must work, but at the same time strict control and discipline must work to ensure that costs do not run away. And one thing that I also hope the government will thoroughly clarify is how this new method of financing social services, the state paying for all expenditure, will encourage regional decision-makers to take effective action. Since we now have this basic model of public finances so that the area itself collects the money and then responds to the tax pressure on the quality of services. So would the regional taxation model be a more efficient, efficient financing model for this kind of social welfare? And now we have to find out about this extension work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u230	Madam President! Just for a minute. Mr Häkkänen said that the pension reform package was a success for this government. Of course, it was technically laid down during this parliamentary term, but it was an agreement that came about during the previous government. As I recall, the Prime Minister once said here that it is one of the most impressive measures that has been taken for a long time to extend employment and working lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u231	Madam President! I agree with Mr Häkkänen on this savings effect of the social welfare reform. We must be very careful here that these objectives are also being fulfilled. We already have some incentives to promote health there, but I really hope that they will be taken very widely into account throughout the whole of Finland across the sector, because we all know that by increasing physical activity alone, we can save EUR 2 billion on health expenditure alone. Today's Helsingin Sanomat has a very good article about the Seinäjoki model, which has all the schoolyards and kindergartens made into good places for exercise, and it has also made it possible for families to move around on evenings and other holidays. Food has also been made healthier. Such small changes have reduced the obesity of children and promoted health through big jumps. These can be simple and minor changes,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u232	Mr President! In fact, Mr Filatov said what I too would say: the pension reform was achieved during the previous term of government, although it was technically adopted at the beginning of this period. But it can be said that this government has nothing to do with this pension reform.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u233	Madam President! I am so glad that the SDP fully supports this pension reform by soul and body, because before the elections in 2011, the SDP was probably opposed to raising the pension age in Finland. In that sense, it is very nice that, in a certain way, this has now come to the front of the Coalition Party and other parties, that working careers should be extended in order to save not only the public finances and the financing base of services but also the Finnish economy in general to improve the standard of living of the Finns somehow. It's nice to have these awakenings coming in a little bit. Just as in the run-up to the last election, not many SDP representatives considered the cost of the work any problem, so now it is reasonably considered good that this kind of competitiveness agreement was created.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u234	Mr President! I think this is a bit thick for Mr. Häkkäinen now, but let him go to Midsummer. All such matters relating to working life or pensions should always be prepared on the basis of careful tripartite preparation, based on studies and studies. This will strike a good balance, which will enable all parties to accept it. And this happened last season with the SDP in the government, of course there was also a coalition as a partner, but such a negotiation procedure was promoted, unlike you have not done this during this regime. I would not go for that pension reform now to score points for this government. You could take those words back.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u235	Madam President! I was not in favour of pension reform because I am not in favour of reforms where everyone pays but the lowest-income workers die before they can enjoy their pension. Instead, I drew attention to the fact that Mr Häkkänen felt that the five-year preparation period for pension reform was extremely long. Of course, as a young person it may be that the five-year periods seem very long, but let us remember that the previous pension reform intended for eternal life was carried out in 2005 and when this latter pension reform was completed, we had not yet been able to examine the impact of the previous pension reform, which is why we made little decisions on the basis of feeling. These frequent pension reforms have led to a significant collapse in the faith of young people that they will ever receive pensions. This is one of me.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u236	Mr President! When I have spent a long time working on these issues as a representative of the SDP, I would say that no party has said so much that there must be an extension of working careers from the beginning, the end and the middle, where the most relevant resource is the unemployed people we have. But the extension of working careers has long been our goal. What we opposed in this pension pattern was that Matti Vanhanen, as Prime Minister, suddenly came up with the famous hangar that the retirement age would be raised categorically and without tripartite preparation. We felt that this preparation should be done together, just as it was done, and there was a reasonably good result. That result was not only a categorical lifting, but also other elements of the whole. As far as price competitiveness and competitiveness in general are concerned, the SDP's election programme already stated that we need a moderate income policy solution that strengthens price competitiveness. But we have seen all along that in all areas
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u237	Mr President! Representative to Tavitsainen: After all, there has now been a really wide-ranging negotiation under this government, where the government has taken responsibility. There has been no such strong responsibility in previous governments to deal with this whole issue. Yes, this is an exceptional situation, and we must be proud of the fact that work has now been done on a very large front by a group, and thank you to all those involved for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u238	Mr President! As far as my age is concerned, reference was made here to the fact that I may not be familiar with the pension system, which I consider to be very special anyway, as an argument. Gender, age or so does not make any of the arguments put forward by a Member of Parliament as such, because many researchers or many labour market players, who have been on the pension negotiating tables, are, for example, 70 years old, and they are very much in agreement with me on these matters. As far as Mr Taavitsainen's comment on who takes points or not is concerned, I do not even want points for this pension reform. It doesn't matter who did it. I am simply saying that the chairman of the SDP, Jutta Urpilainen, was opposed to the fact that the pension reform was being carried forward during the last parliamentary term. It will not be taken forward as long as the demos are in the government. That's what this was all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u239	Mr President! Pension reform is a good thing, and the main thing is that it has been achieved, but it was by negotiation and cooperation. Ordering, commanding and threatening do not produce good results, and perhaps this good process, which last season was conducted specifically through negotiation and joint action, this government could also learn lessons.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u240	Madam President! Well, it was the government that specifically learned and achieved an historic competitiveness pact, for example, which, as has been said here, is also a very great achievement in the European labour market field. I would like to comment on this: Mr Kontula has also raised this issue of generation with merit, but I do see it a little differently. Yes, I think it is very important to try to change the impression that when young people really do not believe that in decades' time they will be able to enjoy the same pension system as they are today, it is therefore very important to modify our pension system and create a belief that future generations will also enjoy similar and hopefully even better pension benefits, but it does now require reform and structural measures to do so. Of course, we must be concerned about why we have different income categories, different health classes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u241	Madam President! Indeed, I did not refer to the personal age of Mr Häkkänen, but to the young people in Finland, who, according to an age-class study, do not trust the pension reforms made in this Chamber, but are skeptical about the fact that they will have a pension one day, and therefore invest in owner-occupied housing when, in terms of labour mobility, rented housing could be a more reasonable option and invest in their children in a completely different way than previous generations, which is of course a good thing, but can also lead to this kind of tiger parent phenomenon, which might not be so desirable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u242	Back to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u243	Mr President! Although Moody’s last of the three major credit rating companies dropped the Finnish rating at the beginning of June, the country’s economy has begun to show dazzling signs of flashing light at the end of spring. For our GDP grew by about 1.6 per cent in the early part of the year, and this is a very promising sign after three years of contraction. However, growth in our economy is still very fragile and needs to be strengthened further. This is also the aim of the budgetary plan now before us. Mr President! The conditions for employment and entrepreneurship have improved just as a result of the conclusion of the competitiveness pact that has been reached, and this is also very important for the consolidation of public finances. The competitiveness agreement will bring a reduction in income tax of at least EUR 415 million and, as is known, the final level of tax reductions will depend on the scope of the agreement. If it rises to at least 90 per cent of employees, which is still quite possible at the moment, then the tax reduction reserve will increase by EUR 100 million, and thus even slightly improve the purchasing power of employees. It should also be noted that the government abandoned conditional adjustment measures of EUR 1.5 billion. These measures would have been very painful when they were implemented and, fortunately, they were now avoided. In practice, the Competitiveness Pact will carry out an internal devaluation which will serve as a substitute for the numerous external impairments of the value of the markka in the second half of the 20th century. It is therefore highly desirable that, with the agreement, exports that are vital to us should go further, creating the necessary conditions for our well-being. The process has been difficult on the part of the parties, but the agreement reached is still valuable for peace in the labour market
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u244	Mr President! The issue of the budgetary plan is very important for us to develop this transport network. We hope that the increase in the debt to repair will now have been brought to an end, because we have demonstrated about a billion dollars in the repair and development of the various transport networks, transport networks. The great thing is that business activity, in particular, has gone ahead in the selection of targets, and hopefully we can make a great deal of progress in our bioeconomy in this way, and above all we can get the wood moving. We have now reached quite an advanced stage in the preparation of the round of traffic. The traffic cycle will be implemented in three stages, i.e. it will be a multi-year project as a whole. It seeks new operating models and funding for the development of the transport network. Let us hope that this will also bring about big, important things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u245	Madam President! A few more words about the kirkishness and confidence that has been so celebrated in this Chamber today. For I am a little confused about whose trust has now been won. In fact, if I am thinking of a regular workhouse or a hospital coffee room that is now wondering about the reduction in holiday money and the length of working time, then I do not really believe that trust there will grow terribly. We already have research data that, in the areas of the work to be carried out, distrust of this Chamber is quite high. My opinion is that kiky will increase this mistrust rather than reduce it. There have already been signs of this radicalisation of the Ay movement during this kiky process in a way that I do not remember from my own adults. The sad thing is, of course, that we would have had the same level of productivity leap through well-being at work, where we have a lot of research to do and where Finland is also at the top of the world in international comparison. We know how this thing is done, we have people who are able to put it into practice, but this so-called soft method has not only been seen to be so interesting that it has been invested in, but rather to undertake such hard reforms, where this particularly interesting detail is this increase in mechanical working time, which means that working time will increase in those sectors where there are regular hours of work at all, i.e. mainly in the working-class sectors. After all, work in the upper middle class is often defined in some way other than strictly working time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u246	Mr President! Perhaps this budgetary plan would have needed an even more vigorous analysis by the government of how to mobilise investment in Finland, which is the key factor behind it. It is very central to the willingness to take risks, the fact that, first of all, there are people in Finland who feel that risk-taking, hard work, enterprise and the creation of new ideas are meaningful. That is a lot of attitude, but it also involves important political measures. There has been a lot of calls in this Chamber for investment not to start, or for measures to be taken only by the public sector, but, in fact, tax reforms and many other regulatory measures should also be taken in Finland to encourage further risk-taking. In particular, issues relating to capital income taxation should be reduced. In the autumn, the government should bring at a rapid pace elements of the budget debate that stimulate investment, either the investment reserve model or some other mechanisms. The government should start more thorough preparation either for the Estonian tax model or for another company tax model of the type of avoir fiscal. Similarly, the government's commitment to change the principles of regulatory policy in the Government Programme should be more effective, i.e. allowing more discretion, experimentation and more and more reduction of this regulation at the ceiling level at local level. It should be a cross-cutting principle in all ministries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u247	Mr President! From the budgetary plan for 2017 to 2020, I would like to highlight the Finland as the leading country in the circular economy. This is a really big project — despite the fact that it has not been mentioned many times here in the brochure — because according to Sitra’s survey, this could generate value added of between EUR 1.5 and EUR 2.5 billion in various sectors. And the Minister Tiilikainen has already launched a road map of the circular economy under the leadership of Sitra, which explains how Finland could be a pioneer country. This means a whole new way of thinking, this is where everyone wins, companies have already gone into this in many ways, here winning the environment and then every human being. This means, in principle, that the word "waste" is completely removed from our selections, i.e. there are only side streams and we think about it in a whole new way, as a comprehensive reform of the value chain of our material flows. There are examples of this from 2014: carbon neutral Finland, even as Sitra’s project, where large companies went after a new, clean business, where this idea cuts through their entire strategy. Forssa — and many other cities — has been tried on a municipal basis, again managed by Sitra, for example, that in Forssa fields, pig farms, production companies, food industry, energy production companies are all synchronized. This involves a great deal of deregulation, such as the obligation to mix with fertilizers, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u248	Mr President! I would say to Mr Häkkänen that taxation on Finnish capital is currently 7% below the EU average — 7% below the EU average. There is therefore no fear that this will at least be a barrier to competitiveness for us. I would also urge you to look at the Estonian tax model as a whole. I am not in a position to refer to it here — but even though some tax categories are far below Finland, there are others who are well over Finland. Generally, when comparing one country to another, one must be very exact in what is being compared, what is being taken. It is often the case that it is quite difficult to select only raisins from buns and to assume that there will not be more unpleasant things related to the same model.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u249	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Kontula said that we have a higher percentage of individual tax types than in some other countries. That is quite right for certain countries, but this problem is that this business environment, especially in relation to international activities, is a whole in which taxation is only one part of the puzzle, and Finland has a huge number of weaknesses that we are, in a way, going to have to compensate for with other factors — such as remoteness and the fact that we are very much forced to use maritime transport and that we also have a poor country with capital. And then, if we compare these big industrialized countries, Germany or others — or even Sweden, where there is a lot of national capital that can be used there to finance domestic production and even new production, startups — then this is the problem there in the background, that is, that Finland has so many weaknesses — we also have a lot of strength factors — that cause us disadvantages and competitive disadvantages in particular, and that is why we have to compensate for them. Now that we look at the whole of corporate taxation and then, in a way, even though the whole of dividend taxation is made up, the overall tax burden is going to rise to more than 40% in certain companies, and at the same time it may be that we have 32 percent in the tax burden on housing. And this is a major problem if there is a difference of 10 percentage points between investing in risky Finnish business that creates employment or in fixed dwellings. And this is a major, big problem that in Finland we currently have more of those few capitals channelled into housing than into risky Finnish business. It should be just the opposite.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u250	Mr President! I would like to comment on the taxation of capital, because Mr Häkkänen called for relief from taxation specifically on capital, not an analysis of the competitiveness of the complex Finland as a whole. If such a discussion had taken place, we would have a lot of international comparisons here. If the strengths and weaknesses of Finland’s competitiveness are compared to other countries, Finland generally manages well in these factors. There are, of course, individual issues in which we are much weaker. One interesting observation is that the international contacts of the Finnish elite and, in particular, the Finnish business elite have decreased significantly in the 2010s, and I assume that this is one of the key factors in our export squabbling.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u251	Mr President! It's just like this. In my opinion, one of the main challenges and problems of the economic debate in this Chamber, and especially this debate on competitiveness, has been to always take on one single issue, one that is thought to be the main determining factor or the biggest problem. These should always be viewed as a whole, and we should also think about how we address the significant weaknesses that Finland has. We have a lot of strengths in the background, but, among other things, high taxation is something that we must be able to tackle in this coming years.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u252	Mr President! I agree entirely with Mr Häkkänen on this, that taxation must be considered and viewed as a whole. And I would also like to comment on this tax model debate in Estonia: I think this is a very good example of how one model has been taken from another country and then it is considered to be either a very good one for Finland or a bad one for Finland. In the Estonian tax model, it is noteworthy that, despite their ability to invest that income in the development of the company, the employer costs in Estonia are higher than in Finland. However, I welcome the fact that Finland will find out in what way we could encourage companies to invest, and it is precisely that the return could be used for this business development.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u253	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u254	Mr President! The preliminary investigation law concerns the judicial reform programme 2013–2025 submitted by the Advisory Board of the Ministry of Justice, the development and promotion of related matters. This proposal implements the Directive on the right of access to an assistant in criminal proceedings at national level. Of course, we already have some of these things in place, because we have the law of pre-trial investigation and coercive measures in force in 2014. Article 9(1) of this Directive, which is at issue here, lays down specific requirements for the waiver of assistants in order to be considered valid. What is essential here is that those who give up understand the importance of giving up and that it must be voluntary. Overall, according to the programme, this is a question of the quality of assistance. It is a good thing that this law should include provisions on the notification of the loss of liberty of persons under the age of 18 to their guardians and to the social welfare authority. This proposal is necessary and sensible and also includes a proposal to amend the Legal Aid Act. It would include a provision in the Legal Aid Act on the non-remuneration of a lawyer’s remuneration in cases of serious lack of assistance as a result of the assistant’s activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u255	Mr President! This is a necessary proposal that the government has brought in, and this is in fact related to a large entity in which pre-trial regulation and other things have been refurbished in Finland for a long time. In the coming years, the government will have to invest more and more in this, as confidence in these governmental measures may have been slightly shaken at the level of the citizen in recent years. It is therefore important that regulation should be able to create an predictable environment for the authorities themselves, but also so that the public understands that legislation and this basis. It is extremely important to uphold this citizens' confidence in these measures and, in recent times, things may not have gone quite right.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u256	Mr President! What we have to add is that, at the moment, we have had to cut back on a great many things, and pre-trial research is an area and an entity that has been very hard on us lately. The fact that we are able to handle it properly and with a high quality brings a lot of challenges.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u257	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities, to which the Constitutional Committee must give its opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u258	Mr President! Somehow I assumed that a proposal of such significance and yet much debate would have been presented by a minister here. When it is not now, let me start by saying that in my own speech I am not going to refer to the government's proposal, but I believe that we have all studied it carefully. Today’s Ministry of Finance’s recent forecast is as follows: Kiki slows down growth next year. Wage reductions feed on purchasing power, which is why the public finances are financing the evasion of employers' contributions through earnings tax reductions to be paid by the State. This is a transfer of income from employees and the public sector to enterprises. Marx has a concept such as an antagonistic contradiction, which means that the greater the share of value added that will be paid to employees, the smaller the part that will remain in the capital, and of course the other way around. Although this is not a mechanical formula, an antagonistic contradiction is, however, a valid concept to frame not only various struggles around wage levels but also other conditions of paid employment that essentially affect where value added ends up. In my view, any government action on the labour market can be seen through the concept of antagonistic conflict. It is a question of transferring resources directly from employees or through the public sector to companies and there mainly to capital. This proposal, which is now under discussion, is a series of measures to facilitate dismissal in one way or another at different stages of employment. Here, too, is another income transfer to the capital. On the other hand, I do not believe that the elements that this government proposal lists as its purpose will be fulfilled. Long-term unemployment is not due to the fact that the probationary period for the long-term unemployed is too short, and there is no unambiguous way of facilitating dismissals to increase employment. However, it may increase profits for companies. If we look at the impact of this government's proposal on the economy, it is good to start by saying that it is already easier for many other countries in Finland and that we have experienced quite a few large waves of redundancies, one of which is that when you have to resign, you prefer Finland rather than France, for example, because it becomes much cheaper. If further cuts are made, at least this mechanism will not be weakened. The transfer of income to businesses, which is taking place here, can, of course, increase economic activity and thus indirectly create new jobs, but in recent times it has led rather to an increase in dividends. And if we compare the euro with the employee's euro, those dividend euros will disappear abroad either because the owners are somewhere outside Finland's borders, or because the owners belong to the income category where much is spent outside Finland's borders. The third impact on our economy is an increase in the uncertainty of the labour market. It is reflected in many different ways in our public sector costs, so this revenue transfer is also managed by non-companies themselves. I was talking a moment ago about the fact that politics should not be measured by GDP or economy, but by how good it is for people to live in the kingdom and how people thrive there. In this respect, the indicator more important than GDP is the difference in assets. Recent studies show that at the level of wealth that Finland currently has, the great differences in income between different social groups, determine the happiness of people far more than the swings of GDP. This performance is part of the long series of performances that contribute to increasing income inequality in Finland. [First Vice-PresidentMauri Pekkarinen : Sorry,this is the time limit10minutes.]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u261	Mr President! At the end of the evening, we now have a Government proposal to amend the Employment Contracts Act in a referral debate. The representative, Mr Kontula, was right to say about the effects of this law. In practice, this proposal shortens the readmission obligation of the dismissed person, which is a very bad proposal. Nor does the proposal have anything to do with local agreement — I anticipate future speeches, perhaps this will arise, but it certainly has nothing to do with local agreement. The proposal can be described as a small brother of forced laws, as it is a question of unilateral measures relating to working life, which have not been negotiated and agreed with employee organisations. The workers have not supported these, and the reason is quite clear: the government's proposal is very one-sided, only undermining the status of the worker. In practice, the reduction in readmission is at the heart of employment security, as those made redundant on productive and economic grounds would have to take back much less time, i.e. from 9 months to up to 4 months. At the same time, the protection against dismissal and the grounds for dismissal will be undermined. These choices will guide the labour market and working life into a state of uncertainty which, after difficult changes in the competitiveness pact, would be wise to avoid. The feeling of insecurity does not stem from productivity but from the exhausting race between workers. The Employment Contracts Act should always be amended only on the basis of careful tripartite preparation, based on studies and studies. This will achieve a balance acceptable to all parties involved in the triangulation. Legislation regulating the rights and obligations of the parties to employment only works if the views on the purpose and content are consistent. I had imagined that the government would have learned something over the past year. Mr President! We should not remove things from the whole in order to move forward only with the objectives set out by employers. The Government's proposal refers to the tripartite preparation of the matter, although no real consideration of the problem and its solutions was made possible by the mandate and its timetable for the Tripartite Group. It is therefore worrying that employees feel that the procedure does not correspond to the requirements of ILO collective bargaining agreements Nos 87, 98 and 154 Member States. Mr President! It is quite clear that these changes that the government is now proposing mean an increase in the uncertainty of working life, which in turn will further reduce purchasing power, demand, competitiveness and jobs. Labour motivation and productivity will not be increased either by forgetting the protection of workers included in the ILO fundamental principles. The problems related to fixed-term periods are universal, so international obligations binding on Finland also impose limits on the use of such agreements. The non-observed gender equality obligations include, inter alia, ILO Conventions 100, 111 and 156 and the European Union Directives 76 and 2002. These, like our national legislation, also call for the recognition of indirect discrimination. However, the government proposal merely mentions the ILO Agreement on the termination of employment by the employer, which requires the Member State to ensure that fixed-term contracts cannot be used to circumvent the protection of dismissal. Similarly, the requirement of the EU Deadline Directive to limit the renewal of fixed-term contracts has been identified. Our neighbouring country, Estonia and Sweden, have had to answer the Commission for its too flexible interpretation of the directive. Sweden will amend its legislation and Estonia will respond to the Commission's action before the EU Court of Justice. I'm just wondering if the Secretary of State isn't. I am afraid of the European Court of Justice at this point, as he feared in the case of cabotage. I think, however, that this proposal will also show who is standing in the ranks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u262	Mr President! This government proposal is so much a legislative proposal changing working conditions that I really would have liked the minister to be here to present it, to discuss it with us and also to answer questions and to explain certain things, because when this proposal was read by itself, there were so many things that I would have liked to have really asked the Minister in this referral debate. This proposal is problematic for a number of reasons, so once again when you read it you have to ask where the impact assessments are. That is what I would have wanted now, because these proposals undermine the rights of workers so much that there is no reason to go into these changes of law on a very light basis. We are now undermining the protection of dismissals and increasing the uncertainty of working life by means that do not have any certainty about their effectiveness or even a probability based on studies or statistics. Again, no gender impact assessment has been carried out. I would have liked to know how, for example, the reduction in the obligation to take back an employee — thus reducing the protection against dismissal and the grounds for dismissal — will improve the willingness of companies to grow and increase employment, which is why the government is justifying this bill. The protection against dismissal in Finland is already very weak and is now being further weakened, and the picture of the future can be as follows — that is to say, this draft law allows for this kind of situation: A person in his or her 50 ’ s with a long work experience is said to be out of production. The next day he may be replaced by a temporary worker or self-employed person to do the same work. In four months' time, a new permanent employee can then be hired. Thus, the employer can easily dismiss an employee, work four months with a temporary worker, and then hire a younger and cheaper person to work in a permanent employment relationship to do the same work. The question remains where this person over 50 will get a new job and how employment will now improve. The reduction in the readmission period will not in any way improve employment, but in practice it will nullify the importance of the readmission obligation. It is also questionable how the willingness of the company to grow will be affected by the fact that the worker can be replaced more quickly. There are other similar problems in this draft law, and in the autumn we in the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities should examine this bill very carefully, specifically from the point of view of the legal protection of workers. Mr President! Fortunately, in this final draft law, the unwarranted period of employment is limited to the employment of the long-term unemployed. According to the Government Programme, this would apply to people other than the long-term unemployed, and then it would have seriously weakened the position of temporary workers in many ways. Let us now hope that this corrected change will increase the willingness of employers to hire the long-term unemployed to work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u263	Mr President! “Younger, less attractive and less expensive,in this case there is an easy-to-work exchange law, such as the change in the It is therefore a question of extending the probationary period, facilitating the conclusion of fixed-term contracts and reducing the obligation to take back periods, and thus reducing the protection against dismissal. The Government decided on these lines, in fact the wording of the article, in its government programme, which is quite exceptional. I understand that efforts are being made to decide the objectives of the law, but not that the negotiations on the Government Programme already include strict instruments and almost articles on the table. In that sense, we can thank the government for having understood that, in the case of fixed-term contracts, they are precisely the problem of young people and women, and decided to limit this proposal solely to the long-term unemployed, but it is not an entirely unproblematic proposal. When this law and its grounds have been read quite carefully from start to finish, there will be many question marks, and that is why it would have been a good thing if the Minister had been here to discuss and answer these questions. But I do understand that there may be justifiable and understandable reasons why the minister is not here. A lot of wording is used in the explanatory statement of the law, such as'may be', 'not studied data', 'no reliable statistics', and, among other things, the effects of the obligation to take back — this is a direct quote: 'Not much empirical research has been carried out on the impact of the obligation to take back on the labour market. It is therefore impossible to reliably assess whether it has any real impact on the employment threshold or not." Such similar records are full of this law, and therefore perhaps a little impression arises that even the author of the law does not himself understand or quite believe that this law works as the government seeks. As far as I am concerned, this law is aimed at lowering the employment threshold, but there is not much evidence in the explanatory statement of the law, quite the opposite. It is true that many times entrepreneurs have the fear that if they recruit a new employee, so to speak, they will miss and that person who has been admitted to work will not be as desired or expected. In that sense, for example, a period of time or an extension of the probationary period may be an instrument for testing a person for longer. But when both instruments are introduced, we end up in a situation where employment security is only undermined. It is no longer a matter of testing whether or not there is cooperation between an employee and an employer. If we look at the big question marks of this law, let us take a really long time in terms of probation and family leave. The legal text itself wonders that there is a high risk that this reform may increase the number of illegal and discriminatory probation breaks, because in the future the probationary period can be extended throughout the family leave period. In fact, the worker will not necessarily be there at the workplace, which would allow this assessment to be made. The risk is that, for example, long illness or family leave is the real reason and not that the employee has not been able to cope with his duties. There are a wide range of issues here and, in part, these trial time issues, and certainly some of them temporary, may be related to differences in the labour market that should take account of the effects of gender. In this trial period some thought has been given to how they affect women and men, mothers and fathers, and the risk is that they are more troublesome for women and mothers. I hope there will be an answer in the expert consultation to these big questions, what is involved in this law. But, for example, when the government has tried so hard to reduce the administrative burden, such as the fact that fixed-term unemployment is now limited to the long-term unemployed, the result is that the TE Offices become the administrative burden. Each time they have to check whether it is really an unemployed person who meets the criteria for long-term unemployment. We all know that there is much too much work at the TE Offices at the moment. That even if, in itself, making it easier to agree on a fixed-term employment relationship for the long-term unemployed would help the long-term unemployed to find employment, it may be that the administrative burden, which will then be determined by several employees whether these criteria are met, will, on the other hand, weaken the assistance received by another long-term unemployed person at the TE Office.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u264	Mr President! There are always two sides to these reforms in the regulation of working life. It is quite clear, as representatives of this House, Mr Filatov and Mr Kontula, said earlier, that in a certain way there is a deterioration in employment security, but the other side is that they are also trying to lower the threshold for employment, particularly for the long-term unemployed, but also for many other people. These are the measures in it as a whole, the individual measures that need to be taken in Finland in order to get the 300,000 to 400,000 unemployed people back to work and prevent future unemployed people from being created, i.e. secure jobs today. As the economic research institutes and universities have predicted, this so-called mechanism of creative destruction, namely the creation of jobs and the death of jobs, will accelerate in the coming years. This is why it is extremely important that the Finnish labour market is as flexible as possible, yet sufficiently secure, but as flexible as possible, so that new jobs can then be created with them. Otherwise, we'll just be leaving the jobs. And these measures relate to this whole package that we need more flexibility on the labour market. According to the World Economic Forum survey, the Finnish labour market is 140 out of 140 countries. In fact, our model of wage formation is rigid, but our overall regulation of the labour market is quite rigid. And that is why it is extremely important that we gradually move towards more flexibility per enterprise, more and more flexibility in individual cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u265	Mr President! Just briefly that it would be good for the government to have been able to write in those arguments where this flexibility comes from and where that additional employment comes from, but unfortunately it is not in that text. I understand that reference is made to the fact that when it is easy to terminate, it is also easy to hire. But then if you look at the Finnish labour market as a whole, perhaps from this study or comparison to which Mr Häkkänen referred, you should see what the other countries are on the flexible side. They are certainly not the ones we would like to associate with or be associated with, we want to create ourselves, because there is talk of a completely different kind of labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u266	Mr President! Those countries where the labour market is more flexible than we do and where employment rates are also higher are Sweden, Germany and many other key European countries, countries that are also classified as welfare states. In these countries, the standard of living and the financing of the well-being of citizens is based on high levels of employment, and the social democrats have also well integrated the model that all the measures that increase the number of people working — even if they may be detrimental to job security — are good measures. There must be a balance between job security and flexibility. But we have, among other things, the OECD's extensive research meetings on the fact that the flexibility of the labour market, including the increase of fixed-term contracts, will increase employment to some extent.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u267	Mr President! Representative Filatov said that it was not written where the new jobs came from. We do not always have to write about where the new jobs come from, because our government programme and the speeches of our ministers have always revealed the significance of this bioeconomy. There are very many key projects in the Government Programme: renewable energy, environmental issues, circular economy, very many are mentioned very much. By the way, when these are mobilised, there will be a great deal of new jobs available.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u268	Mr President! This bill makes it very clear that this employer's freedom of choice in the employment of workers increases productivity, since without restrictions a person can be hired or these restrictions will be reduced. And this is really important in this changing work situation and working life. I represent the generation, even though I am in my 40s, that fixed-term employment is quite everyday. Permanent employment is a special sign of a past time, although it does have its own advantages. But we need these flexibility opportunities in this world to pay the labour force and the fact that the best people can be employed in companies that do important work, including export work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u269	Mr President! Mrs Maijala: I did not say where the jobs came from, but I required that the law be properly prepared and that there should be impact assessments and justification. These matters, to which you referred, are indeed visible in other documents, but there is a legal context in which the explanatory statement explains what is being done and what is the effectiveness of its law in general. But as far as this deadline is concerned, in fact, Finland has committed itself to agreements where permanent employment is the basis and where there is a special need for it, and that particular need is defined by law. This comes from the ILO agreement, it comes from the EU directives, and we actually have opportunities where labour can be used very flexibly. For example, temporary work is like this because there are no guaranteed hours, there are no permanent employment relationships at a given workplace, but it is a very flexible form of labour use. I fully agree that such flexible forms of labour use are needed in today's world. But when it comes to who gets to choose the employee and on what basis, the employer always gets to choose the employee, and that is what he is fully entitled to, but I cannot understand that the employer should also have the right to change the employee without special justification.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u270	And one last response, Mr Häkkänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u271	Mr President! In particular, this issue of timeliness for the long-term unemployed is extremely important. As long-term unemployment increases and people’s unemployment pipelines lengthen, we need all the measures to put these people in isolation. This facilitation of periodicity can now be one of the key elements. This can be one of the key factors, because now this expert work is increasing a lot, and mechanical jobs are actually decreasing a little, and especially in regions where there are no large companies, for example in smaller municipalities, it is very difficult. There small businesses need a great deal of such discretion and flexibility in being able to take those people for a while, in a way, to see if they know how to take certain measures and then whether they can be hired for a longer period of time. This is particularly important for those small businesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u273	Mr President! I do not believe — I am sorry, I am skeptical — that the need for expert labour in small businesses is primarily to help break down the barriers to the long-term unemployed, firstly because there are relatively few professional workers in the long-term unemployed, and secondly because their fixed-term relationships are hardly the way to promote this. Good legislation is based on the justification of the objective pursued by this law and on the path taken, the logic, the causality of the change in this law, to achieve this objective. And I do not see how employment will improve, especially for the long-term unemployed. If you consider what is currently preventing the long-term unemployed from being employed: a weak competitive position in the labour market, labour input does not correspond to the cost of the labour force, wage-supported bureaucracy, a person who is unable to work, or who bears the label of the long-term unemployed. Well, what does the current probationary period and labour market policy measures not help? To pay-support bureaucracy and the fact that there are people there who really should retire. Neither of these is a question to be resolved by an unjustified period of time or an extension of the probationary period.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u274	Mr President! In this regard, we should have considered in greater detail what the consequences of this bill will be if these desired objectives are not met. There is a complete lack of benefit-risk analysis, and an overall impact assessment has not been carried out, and I think it is a serious shortcoming in the draft law that changes working life in such a crucial way. When you read this bill, you get the feeling that the government only thinks things are going to happen but that there is no evidence. A great deal has been said here about reducing the employment threshold, and I am still asking how the employment threshold will be reduced, for example, by reducing this obligation to take back. I mean, well, it will, of course, come down when it's easier to call off the old one and then hire a new one, but is this really what we want? This will not at least increase employment, at least for people over 50 years of age with long working experience, who are still having a very difficult time getting that new job on the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u275	Mr President! Looking at this obligation to take back, I think there is more of a risk of increasing unemployment, because structural change is what, in particular, pushes people who have been unemployed for a long time out of the labour market, and when people are of age and come from a sector where there is not necessarily demand, it is difficult for them to get to work. If, as the companies are often doing at the moment, it is that when there is a bad economic cycle, then they are dismissed and then, when they are doing better, they want to re-emerge, and if they hire a new young workforce instead of the old, older workforce, there is actually a very high risk that this older workforce will be left in long-term unemployment. But instead, I myself have suggested that we should consider whether the use of fixed-term employment for those who are long-term unemployed could facilitate the fear of employers, because we have attitudes that prevent the hiring of long-term unemployed, we have prejudices that prevent the hiring of long-term unemployed, but we also have genuine, as it were, malpractices which have shown that long-term unemployment has injured people's ability to work, and that hiring or recruiting has gone wrong. But, in fact, that longer trial period would serve the same purpose, so now we are looking for the same good with many instruments that together bring unnecessary uncertainty.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u276	Mr President! The big picture here is, of course, that in Finland in the coming years, in fact in recent years, more and more jobs will be created in micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, and then we must also live in time and change in terms of wage creation and employment security, so that the conditions for these companies to operate, employment opportunities will be easier. This is difficult because we in this house and then, of course, the social partners must take care that people have adequate job security, safe working life, but at the same time there are flexible opportunities for companies to hire people, to catch the best people in the workforce and then, in practice, to make these Finnish companies and Finnish jobs succeed. As far as this change in the obligation to take back is concerned, I feel that there are, in fact, problems involved, but it makes it possible for this company, for example, to be able to acquire new skills as projects change or as the field of activity constantly changes. And if we have former employees, for example, which the company has previously had to terminate, when a project has ended, we should rather be able to increase training, training in working life, such various measures that genuinely experience in the companies, too, that this person knows these jobs and is quite capable of working. And if these involve some ageism, it must be weeded out, but I would not like to do it with this kind of artificial regulation but so that companies would have the widest possible hands to choose it from the best expert who takes it forward in the international market, in the domestic market, and through it the company will then be better off. But more education and training in working life than keeping some at work in our legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u277	Mr President! I personally have employed people for 15 years with my own money and other money, and I wonder what is so rigid and difficult about it. I thought it was easy and totally possible. In my opinion, the big mistake in this whole debate is that the flexibility of the labour market would be equivalent to the weakening of the conditions of paid employment and that every time we made the position of an employee slightly more precarious, something would be gained in the flexibility of the labour market. After all, we have a number of ways of making the labour market more flexible anyway. For example, at some point the employer would give little of its own interests and conditions. It hasn't been on the agency in the last year at all. We could also reform our management culture a little closer to Germany and Sweden. According to research, Finnish management culture is big business-centred and authoritarian, and it is one of the key problems in that, which is why, for example, local reconciliation is so difficult for us even when it is possible in the TES. We could reform our social security bureaucracy to respond to the more flexible labour market so that losing social security does not threaten every corner of every attempt to find employment, and we could build our education system in a more transparent direction, instead of now cutting off free education and open, non-graduate education. There would be a lot of ways, even a lot of effective means. Why focus on the one with a lot of problems?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u278	Mr President! I will take up this threshold of pay raised by Mr Kontula. It may be that the representative has acted in a company or in an office where there has been no problem with recruitment, but in Finland the message from employers about small companies, larger companies in the form of surveys, surveys and reviews, and in practice visiting companies on the spot tells us that, therefore, significant problems are linked to this uncertainty as to whether a person can be hired: firstly, certain orders, works and others may be very turbulent, the order book may be very wobbly, but also the renewal of skills and others may require that there should be more flexibility. On this point, I agree that confidence at the local level should be increased. That is the biggest challenge for us, because we have a top-down labour market model, and now we should actually go to that level of employment. And this will be one of our biggest challenges in working life. In Germany, they already know the basics of the job, but in Finland it is quite the beginning.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u279	Mr President! I have no doubt at all that we may have a large skills gap with regard to recruitment in companies. A great deal is also done without proper training. But I claim that the uncertainties, suspicions and fears that exist in the business field do not directly reflect the objective situation of remuneration, its challenges and the opportunities for flexibility. Three years ago I asked Finnish Entrepreneurs to find me one company where Finnish TESs prevent something like flexibility or improvement that is in the interest of both employers and employees. They promised to do this — they failed to find me such a company. I came back to this six months ago, they promised it again — still no business visit has come. I suspect that this is a myth that is very much cultivated, but until I see it with my own eyes, I do not believe it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u280	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u281	Mr President! Only 16 per cent of fish bought in Finland are domestic. Of this fish purchased in Finland is 10 per cent fish grown in Finland and 6 per cent natural fish, and most of it is from the sea. In other words, fish are eaten in Finland, the use of fish has been learned, but that fish is not domestic. Then, when we take these fish for leisure fishing and for domestic fishing, all we can get is that one quarter of the fish eaten in Finland is domestic. The government's proposal on the EU's common fisheries policy and its national implementation is now under discussion. What can we do now through this law to get more domestic fish on the table in Finland? In the case of fishing at sea, it is desirable that this law should help to ensure that, first of all, fishing quotas do not vary so much annually. In practice, the system would mean that the annual fishing quotas for herring, sprat and salmon fixed for Finland by Council Regulation in the Baltic Sea would be allocated for 10 calendar years on the basis of the 2011-2015 catch history. In other words, if we could get the little one to move on, we could at least have a little stronger sea fishing ground. Even on the sea fishing side, we have a reduction in the number of fishermen, which has really fallen down. There must be no more bureaucracy, no laws, no rules at all. Even modern ones need to think about how to decompose them. Especially on the fish side is the fact that that is why we do not make Finnish fish available on our tables. Despite its objectives, the new fisheries law did not clarify and facilitate commercial fishing or, in general, that fish should be brought forward and eaten by us. Our seas have been relatively well caught, but our inland waters, or lakes, are almost all underfished. Too little fishing can be seen in most of our waters so that they do not even have a proper supply of cheese, for example, when they need and need a lot of care fishing. We are in a very weak position at the moment. Then there is one thing in this proposal, which increases bureaucracy: this issue of the registration of inland waterway boats. We must pay particular attention to this, because we do not need any red tape or any more obstacles to action. Rather, we really need to think about how to break these things down. And if a couple of percent of the fish sold in Finland is this domestic fish from lakes, then we have to make big radical changes here. And aquaculture must be carried out on the Finnish side. Now entrepreneurs are moving more and more to the Swedish side to produce rainbow trout and other farmed fish, because it is easier and faster to obtain environmental permits than on the Finnish side — if you can get them at all on the Finnish side. Then let's go to the salmon. The regulation of sea fishing for salmon has achieved great results. Thank you to the person who influenced it. A lot of work has been done on this here in Parliament. This law, too, will help this salmon-fishing issue to move forward. And now we're talking about the Tornio River. This year more than 50,000 salmon have reached the Tornio River, 3500 salmon in the Simo River, and the rise is only taking place at its peak. Last Saturday was a record: 6,000 salmon a day. There have been tremendous results and, in recent years, millions of smolts, i.e. salmon, have grown into the sea, and this is all because sensible decisions have been taken on fishing in the Baltic Sea. Now we have a problem with these seals and norps, i.e. the Baltic elephants. That situation should be calmed down and many other things, but there was no mention of these in this law. And now I am very pleased with this development and the Government Programme agenda so that we can get that salmon up now. The Government Programme focuses on the blue bioeconomy and hiking fish issues. Even the Kemijoki has started work on this hiking fish issue, and I hope that with this work we will get the result that one day I will get salmon on my shore, on the tops of the Kemijoki River, on the shores of Tenniö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u282	Mr President! The Government's proposal aims to update the legislation on the implementation of the EU's common fisheries policy to reflect the changes that have taken place in Union and national legislation and fisheries in general since its adoption. The reform aims to ensure effective national implementation of the EU Common Fisheries Policy and to ensure a more sustainable and economically viable use of fish stocks. The main objective of the Act is to improve the profitability and operating conditions of commercial fishing. I believe that this proposal is necessary and, at the very least, timely because the new fisheries law and the regulation which complement it came into force at the turn of the year. According to the proposal, the proposed law will have financial implications for commercial fisheries, in particular by improving the profitability of the sector concerned and in the form of operator-specific quota utilisation fees and in the form of infringement charges for non-compliance with individual quota obligations. It should therefore be noted that the number of full-time commercial fishermen has fallen by about half over the last ten years. At the same time, the transition of commercial fishermen to part-time or otherwise leaving fishing in the economy to a smaller role has increased. This development has a radical impact on the availability of domestic fish in the future. This government proposal could contribute to increasing interest in commercial fishing. Commercial fishing is increasingly concentrated in seasons, with a high number of fish. This also includes full-time amateurs and grey fish sales. This is followed by the overheating of the market and, worst of all, by the collapse of the price of fish. I believe that there should be a clear system of contract fishermen in the fisheries sector which would guarantee a reasonable price for a commercial fisherman throughout the year. The current state must be as much to blame for both fishermen and buyers. Fish are a mobile resource and are therefore considered to be common property, the use of which is subject to common rules. The aim of the rules of the common fisheries policy is therefore to ensure the sustainable and responsible exploitation of fish stocks. Fishing, however, easily forgets that there is a owner in the water area. The right to fish primarily belongs to the owner of the water area. The owner may be a private property or state, or the water area may be shared by several properties. The new fisheries law, which entered into force at the end of the year, has raised concerns about the right of the owner of the water area to decide on the right to fish. Fishing waters enjoy the protection of property rights guaranteed by the Constitution. However, under the law in force, the local Ely Centre may authorise a commercial fisherman to fish in waters without the permission of the owner of the water area. This feels kind of special. If you have a garden, for example, where have you been growing carrots for years, how can someone give permission to someone else to collect your carrots? This is the kind of thing I don't understand right now with a common sense. The Government's proposal also mentions that the ban on discards is the most significant reform of the regulation on the common fisheries policy in 2013. Commercial fishermen should no longer be allowed to throw the catch back into the sea; instead, the catch should be landed. The prohibition also applies to undersized fish which, according to previous regulations, have had to be thrown back into the sea. The landing obligation in the Baltic Sea applies to herring, sprat, cod, salmon and plaice. I would also welcome the fact that dead undersized fish caught in fixed fishing gear by recreational fishermen would not have to be brought back into the water. It does not make much sense to count dead trout or salmon of 5 feet [59 cm] in the net back into the water, as they taste just as good with cream potatoes as the length of an inch. Mr President! This government proposal is very good, but it could be better.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u283	Mr President! This proposal for the national implementation of the Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) contains some very pertinent points of view, and I would like to take part in this speech in fact in the debate on which Mrs Maijala concluded her speech with regard to salmon. After all, Finland’s objective has been to move from mixed stock fisheries to stock-specific fisheries. This would be a very important issue for salmon, especially now that the transition has been completed. And when more salmon has begun to rise to our large free salmon rivers, this would support that development. I hope that Finland at the European tables will then highlight the problem of mixed stock fishing from our point of view. Unfortunately, however, there is still pressure on the salmon stock, and in addition to the pressure on its stock, there have also become new phenomena on the summer river Tornio in relation to the disease of which we do not yet know what it is — whether there is a fish on the surface, in the water or where the reason for the mysterious death of the salmon is concerned. It would therefore be terribly important for better research to be carried out this summer and for Evira to have enough dead salmon — it is hoped that they will not be at all, but that it will also be possible to find out what is at stake, because salmon will have a very great impact on Northern Finland. The longest free-flowing river in Europe is also our largest salmon river, and it would be good if, just as Mrs Maijala said here, we could finally get salmon up. The salmon stock in the Simo River is very weak, although it is also growing, so there is still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-06-22-ps-74.u284	Mr President! This issue is very closely related to the domestic fisheries law and related matters. The Fisheries Act came into force new from the beginning of this year, and now that it has begun to be implemented, it has highlighted a great many different points which will certainly require correction. Certainly none of us are going to start completely rebuilding the law, for the law was built for seven years. It was a big and heavy process as a whole. Now let me list a few points that have been made to us in the Federation of Fisheries and to me personally that they need to be corrected: So the first point is what was discussed more than a year ago. This is the number of nets, i.e. how many nets can be deployed. After all, the law came in such a way that there are no more than 240 meters per boat, and this means in practice eight nets. As such, it is a good thing, in certain places in Finland, but Finland is a big country, and the number of networks should not be determined by law, but must be decided absolutely in certain areas. There are two nets here in the south in many places, but there is a completely different situation in our region, for example. This is the limit of the nets I have compared to the fact that you are very rich, you have a large house, there are ten rooms, but the law says that you can use no more than eight rooms, so that you do not use but eight rooms. You are a big owner of water rights, you own a lot of water rights, you are used to catching a lot of fish in the fall, and you put a freezer full of fish, but the law says you can't use more than eight nets. Well, then, the second, bigger thing in this fishing law, which now requires a very quick correction, is then this matter of obtaining a fishing licence. After all, the fishing licence currently requires a rather strong registration, which is a very bureaucratic entity. As such, if it is a one-year permit, but when we have tourist fishermen who come fishing for an hour, for example, all those who fish for an hour — for example, the guide has 30 tourists who go fishing on the beach — it requires an incredibly bureaucratic, really heavy registration. The third point is that the EU legislation that came up here today requires certain adjustments to our law. Fourthly, there is the fact that the catching of salmon and trout in northern municipalities was stopped. In other words, when it had to be clear that the right of the locals to catch salmon and trout continued to be the same in the state waters, it suddenly became impossible. As far as I was concerned, I was very active in preparing the law, but there was no change for the three northernmost municipalities except that in the future all fish could be caught only in their own municipality. But suddenly the situation came to pass that salmon and trout should not begin to ask for any more government waters. Next, this law has such a point as the law of the owners of the water rights of Lake Inari. There's still a lot of work to be done and done with it. Next, the commercial use of fish, for example, in different events. There are certain events and activities where, for example, there may be a large number of pikes or some so-called trash fish, aches, perch, so if it has not been requested by a commercial fisherman, then suddenly the local entrepreneur is not allowed to use it. In other words, this kind of activity must definitely make it easier and faster to get that fish used. Then there are some very technical matters to be corrected in this law, including the conversion of fishing areas into fishing areas. There are little problems with the years that there are certain things that break apart sometimes. So this fishing law has already been put in place, but there must be a lot to repair and edit. But I believe that this is what we are going to do this summer, we will see what all the needs for change are going to come up here, and we will start to correct certain things that are needed then in the autumn.
