ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u1	Partly for the only, partly, second reading will be presented in order of number 2. matter. First, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 5/2016, the decision will be taken at the sole reading of the agreement and then at the second reading of the draft law. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 25 October 2016. In the debate, Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, supported by Anna Kontula, has proposed that Parliament accept the proposal for a statement contained in the report rather than the proposal for a statement of objections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u2	Finally, it is up to us to decide on the draft statement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u3	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities. A debate on the 4th and 5th issues will also be allowed in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u4	Madam President! The Government proposes that Parliament approve the Government's proposal The proposal proposes to amend the Act on Public Employment and Business Services, the Unemployment Protection Act and the Employment Contracts Act. Periodic interviews with job seekers would be increased to promote the employment of the unemployed and to fill vacancies as quickly as possible. The first interview of a job seeker will take place after two weeks of seeking a job, unless it is manifestly unnecessary in view of the situation of the job seeker. Subsequent interviews would always be organised every three months of continuous unemployment. The interview would always be accompanied by a review of the employment plan or a replacement plan. Employment opportunities for the unemployed would be improved by changing the financing of pay subsidies and start-up money. The State-funded share of unemployment benefits would be spent on wage support and start-up money for the unemployed. Changes in the financial transition would be experimental and therefore in force in 17 and 18 years. In the event of a financial change, the provisions on the amount of pay subsidies would be made more flexible and pay subsidies would also be directed specifically towards low productivity tasks by setting a euro-denominated ceiling for the amount of pay subsidies in the State budget. In the budget proposal for 17 years, this ceiling is EUR 1400 per month. The conditions for granting pay subsidies would be changed to make pay subsidies more accessible to the development of professional skills and to the promotion of employment in the open labour market. In addition to the long-term unemployed, wage support would be directed towards promoting the employment of those unemployed who, according to the estimates of the TE Office, are at risk of long-term unemployment. For those who have been unemployed for at least 2 years, the maximum duration of the pay subsidy would be reduced from 24 months to 12 months. Seventy-five per cent of paid work would be covered by the condition of employment. However, in the so-called compulsory work organised by the municipality, the condition of working would continue to be fully met. Efforts are being made to lower the employment threshold for the unemployed by extending the use of the work experiment on a fixed-term basis. In the years 17 and 18 it would be possible to use the work experiment as a recruitment experiment to assess suitability before entering into a contract. Recruitment testing would enable unemployed job seekers to demonstrate their skills and suitability for potential employers and thus lower the employer’s threshold to hire them for employment. The experiment would be optional for the job seeker and could take up to one month. If the organiser of the recruitment experiment were to hire a person for the same or similar tasks after the experiment, the duration of the experiment would be reduced from the maximum duration of the probationary period under the Employment Contracts Act. On a provisional basis, the content of Article 6(2) of Chapter 13 of the Employment Contracts Act in force between 15 and 16 would be consolidated. This means that, in certain limited circumstances, the employer who hires and organises the work experiment with a pay subsidy could derogate from the employer's obligation to provide work for laid-off and redundant workers and part-time workers. In other words: the municipality may employ a person who has been unemployed for at least 24 months during the previous 28 months, but not for the job for which it has laid off its employees or for which it has issued a lay-off notice to its employees; the association or foundation may employ a person for activities other than those considered to be a business activity, who has been unemployed for at least 24 months during the previous 28 months; the municipality or joint municipal association, association or foundation may take a workshop or similar training unit into a paid employment relationship with a person who is not otherwise engaged in an employment relationship; even if the employer has laid off his staff. The maximum duration of the start-up grant would be reduced from 18 months to 12 months. A start-up grant supplement would be waived, which would mean that the start-up grant would always be equal to the basic daily allowance in the future. Entrepreneurship and self-employment would be supported by enabling start-up money to be granted not only to a new full-time client but also to an individual client who expands his small-scale subsidiary business. Regional mobility would be promoted through the reform of the regional mobility support system. Existing grants, travel aid in the form of labour market support and compensation for removal costs would be replaced by mobility grants granted by the person paying unemployment benefit. The grant would be equal to the basic daily allowance and its duration would be differentiated according to the duration of the employment relationship. The support period for self-study supported by unemployment benefit is extended from 24 months to 48 months if the unemployed person completes the syllabus of basic education. In addition, opportunities for those who have received the aid package to study with unemployment benefit, for example in the event of dismissal, would be improved. Both changes are relatively minor in general terms, but at individual level they can of course be significant and help a person who has been made redundant to find a new job or, for example, an immigrant to reach Finnish society through education. The allowance payable for the period of employment-promoting services as defined in the Unemployment Security Act would be amended to cover the costs related to the services in which the unemployed person must participate at the risk of losing the unemployment benefit. Self-employed studies supported by unemployment benefit will continue to be voluntary for the unemployed and will therefore no longer be paid for the period of self-study. However, unemployment benefit paid to support studies would still be higher than, for example, student grant. The waiving of the allowance for the cost of self-study for the unemployed makes it possible to pay the allowance in the future for the duration of the work experiment for young people who do not currently have the right to reimbursement of expenses. Among other things, Parliament has hoped for this change in its statement. In addition, the appropriations saved from the cost of self-study cover, inter alia, the costs of increasing the volume of the wage subsidy. Extending the right of municipalities to information aims to reduce long-term unemployment and reduce the cost of long-term unemployment for municipalities. To this end, Kela's right to provide information is extended so that Kela can provide information on persons who have been paid labour market support on the basis of unemployment for a total of 200 days, as well as on persons whose right to labour market support starts immediately after the maximum period of unemployment allowance has been reached. The Government’s aim is to encourage unemployed people to also take up work in a mandate relationship. Incentives would be improved by amending the Unemployment Security Act so as to maintain the right to unemployment benefit during the duration of the mandate for a maximum period of two weeks. However, the income from the assignment would be taken into account in the amount of unemployment benefit, i.e. a adjusted unemployment benefit. In practice, the change in mandated work means that the TE Office no longer assesses the main and secondary activities of the business in the case of short mandates. This should remove the fear that accepting a mandate relationship will result in a total loss of the right to unemployment benefit. Unemployment benefit adjusted for up to two weeks of full-time employment is already paid today. — Here, Mr President, the first motion. I'll go back to the next one with a dry mouth. Secondly, the government's proposal to tighten up the obligation to take up work. The Government’s strategic programme outlines that the government will reform unemployment security by tightening the obligation for the unemployed to take up work and participate in active measures. Here are a few points: At the end of the three-month period of professional protection, the unemployed would be obliged to apply for and take up full-time work for which, after the cost of taking up a job, the salary paid is lower than the unemployment benefit paid to them. If you have your own car at your disposal, you would be required to use it for commuting outside the 80 km work area. The period of non-retirement would be extended if the unemployed refused a secure job. The location of the job outside the working area would not be a valid reason to leave the job. As a general rule, the unemployed would be obliged to participate in the employment-promoting and comparable services defined in the Unemployment Security Act, even when the participation is not agreed in the employment plan. Integration workers would be obliged to participate in initial surveys and study integration training as a condition for receiving unemployment benefit. A key element of the proposed changes is that unemployed people are directed to seek employment and to improve their chances of employment. This will also be guided by the amendment of the Unemployment Protection Act so that the qualifying period for refusal of employment does not begin until 30 days after the refusal of employment. In other words, the economic disadvantage of carnage can be better avoided in the future by finding a new job and going to work. Finally, Mr President, the government's proposal on the issues agreed in the Competitiveness Pact in relation to the legislation on security of change and cooperation between employer and staff and health care. This proposal is therefore based on a competitiveness pact between central labour market organisations. The proposal proposes to improve the security of change in such a way that the employer is obliged to offer the employee who has been dismissed for economic and production reasons the opportunity to participate in training or training to promote employment paid by the employer. In addition, the employer would be obliged to provide occupational health care for the dismissed worker for a period of six months from the end of the obligation to work. The employer would be entitled to compensation for that period in accordance with the Health Insurance Act. The changes would apply to employers who regularly employ at least 30 persons. In addition, the period of employment of the dismissed worker should be at least five years. The obligation would apply not only to private employers but also to the state and municipalities. The proposal also proposes to make changes to the Unemployment Security Act, which would not affect the unemployment benefit of a person who has become unemployed. In addition, changes to the Income Tax Act would result in a person’s tax-free benefit from training or training. On the basis of the Competitiveness Agreement, the scope of the Co-operation Act would also be amended so that the law would also apply in the future to branches of foreign entities where the number of employees would be at least 20 on a regular basis. These changes are proposed to enter into force from the beginning of next year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u5	It is now possible to have a debate on this point, and I thought we would do so by using the two-minute speeches instead of the one-minute speeches. There are so many things here at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u6	Mr President! When we deal with these three laws at the same time, one might say that the first is reasonable, the last is positive, the middle is unworthy. If I start off with this indecent move, then if we think that we have a single mother in Tampere, then in the future, with these rules of the game, she should go to Helsinki to work even if that salary is less than her unemployment benefit. And when your government's explanatory statement says that the average unemployment benefit is slightly above 1000 euros, then if you leave Tampere for 1000 euros to work and the bus or train journey costs more than 500 euros, the situation is completely unreasonable. But as far as this first proposal is concerned, it is positive that unemployment benefit can be used actively in the future. But one more step could have been taken to improve this, i.e. to introduce an automatic employment voucher model. Now that active money still needs to be thrashed at employment offices, TE offices, and the entrepreneur cannot be sure that he will receive a paid employee. When that rule of play was automatic with certain criteria, the TE Offices would save a lot of work that could be used for smart, skilled, knowledgeable employment, and the employer could also be more sure of how those rules work. Why didn't you introduce this automatic Antti Rinte model?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u7	Mr President! There are many good things in these proposals, some neutral reforms in these proposals, but now as a bourgeois, I draw attention to the worst problem that can be found here, and this is an increase in consideration, which will inevitably also lead to sanctions increasing from around 100,000 which are currently imposed annually. Labour policy sanctions are one of the main reasons why we have seen the number of incomeless households grow for longer. In these families, not only the unemployed who have been punished, but thousands of children are also living, and this is also a key factor behind child poverty. However, even if you only think of these sanctions in the light of this unemployment benefit system, they are also problematic from its point of view. Although they may lead to some stalemates of labour policy measures, we also have the knowledge that those who fall out of unemployment benefit by means of sanctions will normally also fall out of the whole labour market system and have a strong passive impact on our official labour market. For this reason, there is no reason to assume that increased consideration would support the priority tasks of our unemployment benefit system which, of course, are to help people to find employment and to guarantee their livelihood during the period of unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u8	Mr President! As Mr Filatov said, there are both good and bad reforms on this issue. It is good that assets are being transferred from the passive security side to the active start-up money and the pay subsidy model, but I too am very surprised that this Antti Rinte model, the employment voucher, has been discussed several times and I wonder why it has not now been found in your alternative. There is a simple way after six months of unemployment to offer unemployed people this kind of employment voucher, a basic daily allowance bill, over 700 euros per month, and through it to apply for employment. This would save resources for employment offices. I had a discussion here some day ago with the people of the Employment and Economic Development Offices, and there is concern that there is far too little resources for this employment agency activity. It would therefore make sense now to reduce the use of resources in this respect: to use this passive money with a very simple model to support active activities. The employment voucher is a model that makes it very easy to get to work, and yet when we have 125,000 long-term unemployed, who require different measures, stronger measures, this could then help to ease the situation of those people who work faster anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u9	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a lengthy but very interesting presentation. There was a lot to do, and it reminds us of the big picture we have already had throughout this parliamentary term. This is a government of reforms, and there are so many points in one area at a time. This has really brought up the good points already, precisely as a new and excellent aspect of this more active use of unemployment security, what years have been desired and needed and what is precisely this kind of positive way to start promoting a major employment improvement project for the entire nation. Then the previous one had this experiment of work, so much of which so far there has been a variety of confusion, partly and mostly deliberate. Now it is clear to us that you can still ensure that this is a voluntary and very temporary experiment, which is intended, above all, to give the unemployed, if they wish, the opportunity to demonstrate their own abilities in such a way that the situation is as risky as possible for the employer. Well, we are also talking about this increase in the right of access to information for municipalities. So I understand that the Minister said that this is precisely an attempt to combat long-term unemployment, which is of course a very important issue. You may be able to open this up to us even more when you have the floor. All in all, this package is an excellent package at this stage, which will certainly give us more impetus to our employment objective. I would like to ask, in the light of the big picture, whether there has been some kind of neutral assessment of how much this will help us achieve its 110,000 new jobs in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u10	Madam President! I share the overall estimates that the legislative packages we are now discussing contain very different good but also bad sections within them. [Ilkka Kanerva's mobile phone rings. ] If we go back to this first package of laws, it is certainly a good thing that unemployment benefit can be used in the future to actively promote employment as start-up money and employment support. That is certainly a good thing. Nor do I automatically see it as bad that the unemployed are interviewed every three months. It may be a vital thing for someone. But, of course, if they are not implemented properly, there is also the possibility that the experiment or this practice will go completely to the cheek. That is why I am still concerned about the increase in the workload of the TE Offices themselves. Knowing that 50 million employment appropriations were deducted from the frameworks for this year, and now EUR 17 million is being allocated back specifically for these interviews, the question is what are all the commerves and convex in the TE Offices to be able to do in order to manage these interviews properly, while we know that we already have a huge number of interviews in advance, as it were in stock there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u11	This was the first time in my presidency that a representative's phone rang. But, as far as I know, that good old rule on the provision of coffee is still in force, is it not, Mr. Kanerva?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u12	Mr President! It is very nice that the experienced representative, Mrs Kanerva, continues this tradition of many years, that she would be happy to offer coffee to Parliament. I suggest that you might add that if it happens another time, then you should offer to follow it along with avec. Madam President! When you look at this whole thing, thank the government for the change of direction. A year ago, here, at the beginning of the reign, when we asked about the appropriations for this active workforce, the answer was that this unemployment is not being treated with these, and it was precisely because other changes are being made and these are not playing such an important role. Well, time was wasted, and it is evident, of course, that according to the Labour Force Survey published yesterday, for example, the seasonally adjusted number of employed persons is only 10,000 higher than one year ago, which indicates that there are still things to be tightened up after this decision. But the good news is that the government now sees the importance of active labour market policies in a new light. But, Mr President, what is missing here is indeed this model of the Ringe. And that is precisely the idea that it is an automatic wage subsidy with little bureaucracy. And why should it be introduced right now? Because there's been a change. More and more new jobs are created in small businesses, and it is in small companies that bureaucracy is poison. I ask Minister Lindström: It is good that you have now changed the line, you see the importance of active labour market policies. Could you take it so far as to make it easier for a large number of small businesses, for example, to hire a worker with a little red tape? And let me finish by asking: are you still sticking to the promise that you will not bring any new unemployment benefits here in Parliament?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u13	Madam President! Looks like we need to review the Sipilä government program. In practice, it is based entirely on the fact that "social and unemployment security is being reformed so as to encourage the rapid reception of work, reduce periods of unemployment and reduce structural unemployment and save public resources". So the idea is exactly what the Minister is now. The whole package presented by Mrs Lindström is, therefore, a move from a certain type of passive support to active support, i.e. to what has been said here. It is good to hear that the opposition also sees a lot of good in this proposal. There can always be something to fix in every government proposal, and that is all there is to it. Time will then show us which systems are not working, but this is, overall, a reform which I dare call the Millennium Reform. This takes Finland's life forward in such a way that it includes elements that could be called a carrot in classical terms as well as a stick in a certain way. After all, we all need borders, carrots and sticks themselves, it is not a question of making the unemployed guilty in any way. We all have our rules in society, too. And in this respect, when public support is involved, care also requires that these rules can then be laid down. When reference has been made, for example, to a car, some parties have been calling for, for example, a cut in the kilometric allowance, it may not be appropriate for that ideology. The government’s line — let it be said here too — is that there will be no cuts in the kilometric allowance, which is quite clear to us. All these questions on the content of the reform package are detailed but move this great basic objective forward: from passive to active.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u14	Madam President! As has been said here at the mouth of many opposition representatives, this package has good and good proposals and then fewer good ones. The changes to the legislation on change security, cooperation between employer and staff and occupational health care are linked to this agreement and may not be any more than that. They're all positive in themselves. Then maybe from this first package of laws. It is very good that this active use of unemployment benefit is now being taken forward. After all, the Christian Democrats have been saying since last year that this earnings-related allowance could indeed be used for the last 100 days. In this government proposal, this basic and basic daily allowance and labour market support will then be used for active activities, i.e. pay subsidies, start-up grants and also mobility grants. The government has found once again that these own proposals must be refined and specified, and this will then relate to these three-month interviews of the unemployed. In other words, along the way, it was discovered that there is so-called authority here and that this cannot be outsourced to private companies. This too is important that this change has been made. Just now, we probably also received several messages from our cell phone that the indexation of the front supplement will be abolished. So this is a government that learns in these things along the way. In that sense, it must be said that this opposition work makes sense when the government corrects these movements. But perhaps lastly, I would like to point out that the model of basic protection that the Christian Democrats encourage was the one that could solve this middle bad proposal. In other words, it is unreasonable for the unemployed to find themselves in a worse situation when he takes up the job, and I would like to hear further arguments from the Minister on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u15	Madam President! Good, better, bad, or whatever it is, everything about this package. But I would have asked the minister a special detail: When there are these three-monthly interviews, i.e. the unemployed can voluntarily seek such evidence that they are able to prove their own competence, has there been any idea of a criterion that would, in a sense, oblige the employer to acknowledge that "Hey, this guy, after working here for a week, has demonstrated, through his own work, that he has the prerequisites for accepting this job?" So, at what point is the fact that there are no 30 consecutive portions of the month in the workplace when those exhibitors go to work there? Have we thought about how to make that proof of competence possible? Have we considered whether there are any resources in which small workplaces, as the staff have the opportunity to guide this unemployed person who wants to show evidence that they have the capacity to show them their skills for this job? So where are the criteria, how is it estimated that the person is able to demonstrate his/her own skills and thus to employ this employer?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u16	Mr President! There are a lot of good things here and, of course, a lot of criticism. These issues relating to the Kikiy agreement are all such positive for the workers as well. Perhaps you could add that the Kiki agreement also saved the financing of this self-employed vocational adult education, which was going rather badly, and it was also being corrected as part of the Kiki agreement. In particular, I would draw attention to the fact that these three-monthly interviews are an important issue in themselves if we are to assume that they can be done qualitatively. In Central Finland, we have to do 500 interviews — or we should do — in a month. It follows that there must be quite a lot of resources to make the interviews qualitative and, above all, if it is to be used as a basis for future decisions on whether or not there will be toughness. The first question is: Will these interviews and the discussion be linked to this issue of the question of the question? It must be very precise that they are of high quality and, in terms of legal certainty, there must be valid criteria for people. There is also another idea here that there are so many things that the government decided to transfer to the spring to be negotiated, tripartitely prepared, in relation to this employment package, including the use of earnings-related security, as regards opportunities for self-training. Would it not have been more reasonable for this entity to have been looked at together then in the spring and not to go on taking such individual things forward now, as it would have been possible to assess more broadly the significance of its reform. That is what I am calling for, the importance and importance of this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u17	Madam President! Thank you to Minister Lindström for the presentation and good presentations that are taking our unemployment security in an active direction. There have been very slight signs of improvement in the employment situation. Positive news has also been received from the industry, which hopefully will open up new jobs, to increase employment in this country. For example, Meyer Turku's large, significant orders are such, which hopefully radiate far across Finland. The Business Barometer also told us that business credit for the future has improved, and hopefully it will also promise more jobs in this country, because it is simply true that it will ultimately be the best social security. These periodic interviews are welcome. Many feel excluded from society, and now we have growth in long-term unemployment and in the case of the young long-term unemployed. These are groups which must now be actively tackled, as is being done, and should not be seen as any form of punishment, but rather as a way of caring where a plan of employment is sought and therefore the way back to work. Active unemployment security is welcome, the expansion of the use of start-up money is also a good thing, and the fact that the competitiveness pact also receives broad support and approval in Parliament, but it is ultimately a package negotiated by employees and employers and it is good that these entities are now firmly put into everyday life as well. Mr Kiysi has great expectations that it will also help to improve the employment situation in us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u18	Madam President! I am sure that in this Chamber we all believe that everyone should be able to work without losing social security or without fear of unemployment benefit being lost if they accept it. Now, this first package of laws presented by the Minister included the idea that a job seeker could employ himself for two weeks as a full-time entrepreneur without losing the right to unemployment benefit. In other words, he would be able to reconcile unemployment benefit if this full-time entrepreneurship lasted only two weeks. Now, if I understand correctly, the problem remains that self-employed people will continue to be considered as main entrepreneurs who are not legally entitled to unemployment benefit, unless entrepreneurship lasts less than two weeks, as is now proposed. But this raises quite a lot of questions, namely, what is the kind of entrepreneurship that is always taken out of a desk box for two weeks at a time? And what about self - employed persons who could work for, for example, three weeks or four weeks? Is it, then, that they cannot accept this work if there is a risk that they will continue to be interpreted as self-employed entrepreneurs, which means that they are not entitled to unemployment benefit? In other words, it sounds to me now that the unemployment insurance law, which was and is very problematic by the government at the beginning of the year, should be dealt with quite separately and not imported such little desperate patches as part of some bill that leaves much more questions open than what it answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u19	Mr President! There are a few things I'd like to take up. There have been some good speeches here, and thank you for the fact that the opposition has also become a positive point of view. However, Mr Lindtman said that the period has now been wasted, that there have been only 10,000 new jobs. However, I think that the direction is always good when it is a plus sign — not a minus sign, as it was last season. In addition, we in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities have pointed out that young people in particular feel that these personal contacts are very necessary and are therefore welcome. They themselves have hoped for personal meetings if they have been able to decide for themselves. One important improvement has now been forgotten here, which means that the right of the jobseeker to benefits will not be interrupted until 30 days after the beginning of any abuse or qualifying period. In other words, the situation is that the toughness begins immediately and the situation may be that the unemployed do not have any money and then it turns out that this break has been unjustified. So now we have 30 days and we have time to figure that out, and it may not break at all, and that is a very good thing. And I would have asked when I had questions about this use of my own car: will it go to Trafi's registers or what will be done or will it be trusted that a person declares that the car is in use or that I own the car but it is used by the spouse? If I have understood correctly, the government will not go into any car ownership clearance, but trust the word of man. Is that right?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u20	Mr President! There are indeed many good things in this package of laws, but there are also wonders in it, if I say so. These regular interviews of employees are in principle all right, provided they are arranged in such a way that they are guiding and encouraging situations and have sufficient time to face that person and his life situation. They won't help if they're like these five-minute visits. I therefore ask the Minister whether the resources are now sufficient for proper and thorough interviews. But, on the other hand, if this interview is then accompanied by a three-monthly reduction in unemployment benefit or a carnage threat or something like that in the future, then this interview may be something other than encouragement. That it will then become such a cause of fear and distress, and then it will not help the person himself. We are talking about, and the government is also talking about, a lot about this Danish model, but the fact is that the Danish model cannot be achieved with the resources of Finland. There are more than 20 times as many employment officials in Denmark than in Finland, and if we do not get those professionals there now, then this helping, supporting and directing employees to work there will not work. This possibility for labour force officials to perform this core task would have been facilitated if this simple and automatic model of banknotes had been introduced in the slope. Now the employees of the TE Offices will continue to have to make administrative decisions, and it will take no time at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u21	Mr President! As has been said here, the proposal has gone for the better, but there have also been a lot of concerns, and I would like to ask you a few clarifications on the issues that have arisen here. First of all, this work sample: This has been slightly modified, but the model is voluntary, as has been pointed out, but I still see the risk that the employer may require this work sample before it is possible to get into this paid employment. I would like to ask how to prevent the employer from doing this in practice, because, however, you have to apply for this job sample if you have an open job available, and if you are working in practice but you are unpaid, what is to prevent it from becoming a habit of using it? Secondly, I would also like to draw attention to these three-month interviews. Concern has been brought here about these resources from the TE Centres and then about this element of sanctions. Personally, I think it is very important that we have personal help and service and we help people to work and study and we are in charge of it. However, with about 16 times in Sweden and more than 20 times more in Denmark, how can this be implemented in practice with these resources? And now that the Minister is here, I would like to ask a specific question in relation to these possible sanctions, that there is no reason to fear that additional sanctions could be directed at the unemployed, for example, in the course of these three-month interviews. Now that you look at the policy of the government, I want to be sure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u22	One last speech before the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u23	Madam President! This from passive unemployment to active employment and flexibility to flexibility is also the goal of Christian Democrats in managing employment. The Finn wants to work, that's what we can all sign. This is also a new, welcome start-up grant, and we have been in the programme for a long time. So, all in all, I agree with these positive views on what these legislative proposals now bring, and I also share the concern expressed by Mr Filatov about this one law, which, as it were, forces hundreds of kilometres to take on low-paid work. I would like to ask you, when this trial period in this recruitment experiment is 18 months, if you have wondered what will happen afterwards. I'm sure you're thinking about a lot of unemployed people. What is the situation when the budget is running out and we do not know what will be in the next two years? However, it goes rather quickly, and I would like to see a little more light on this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u24	Then Minister Lindström, no more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u25	Thank you, Madam President. And thank you for a very proper debate. Yes, there is a lot of good in this proposal and then there are many aspects that are of course negative. It must be acknowledged, of course, but we must see this whole picture of what we are doing here. Let us start with two big cases that emerged from these speeches: interviews and then the resources of the TE Offices. Firstly, it is not the task of these interviews — I have said many times — to tease people. Their aim is not to impose sanctions, but to help a person. That's the leading idea. The question was then asked in detail why, then, this financial reform did not end up with this so-called Antti Rinte model. Salary allowance and start-up grant will continue to be discretionary benefits, which will require consideration of the employment policy of the Employment and Economic Development Office. On the other hand, when I started this job, I had a situation where people from all over Finland started to tell me that the money was out, that we should buy Volvo, so we had to start thinking about what we were going to do with this. And when that general line has been taken by the government, that money has been pinched everywhere — not just pinched but taken off fairly — then the idea has been how the existing money can be spent smarter. And then it came to this model, which I am now presenting here. As has been the case here, thanks for that, this has been felt positive. We now receive 95 million more money for pay subsidies and start-up money, mobility grants, and hopefully we will be able to overcome the problem of running out of money every year. And I think this is important. What, in a way, in this idea — and I am still going to this so-called Ringe model — is that the unemployed have the knowledge of whether they have the pay subsidy when they go looking for the job, that is, of course, essential. This is an idea I understand, and I think it is quite justified, but the government has decided on this kind of model. It may be that the next time the SDP sits on the board, you will then drive through this model on the slope, but here's what we're going to do. The same idea in a different way. Well, then, of course, this big picture of these interviews: how are the resources of the TE Offices sufficient? Of course we have recognized this and we know that the little over 2,000 workers will face a huge, if not impossible, challenge. That is why the government has decided on the EUR 17 million which alone is not enough, but we must look at the entire amount of money within paragraph 51 that is being spent on these purchasing services in general. What can be done there, how can it be made more effective so that the money is sufficient? In addition, of course, it has also been suggested on the part of the municipalities — the last people I have met today in the Association of Local and Regional Authorities and the employers of the KT — that they can come to this aid. And that's an interesting offer, because yes, there are a lot of factors here. I'll take this news coverage on my own account, too. At the time, when this 17 million was decided, a little thought was made out and it was interpreted as if the government had decided that this money would be used to purchase such services from individuals, and this is not the way we have decided at any point, but that it will support this other activity, because we know that these resources are tight. Then there was one such inquiry about this recruitment experiment and the fact that if not, then how it interprets this. Again: it is voluntary. If you do not go there or stop it, there will be no quarantine or obligation to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u28	Let us take another round of replies, we are still going for two minutes. — Mr Kiljunen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u29	Madam President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Lindström very much for the fact that the possibility of the municipal workshops will continue to exist now, and you have heard both the experts in the field and also us parliamentarians when we have called for this. Thank you very much for that. But here I would like to raise another question, which specifically concerns those people who are forced to seek employment when they are unemployed. For example, if a housewife from Kouvola is obliged to take a job in Helsinki, the travel costs are about 400 euros, and then if she has a salary of about 1,000 euros, then in practice, in order for her to cope with all the costs, that means, at worst, that she has to apply for income support. And we know at the moment that income support does not take into account this type of travel costs, which can drive people into a kind of cost trap that is hard to deal with. I would now like to ask you: have you discussed with Minister Mattila how to deal with these situations, where, due to the economic situation, people are not in a position to accept work, and how will the municipalities then take into account these commuting costs in the future on a discretionary basis in terms of income support?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u30	Mr President! It does not envy the role of Minister Lindström when it comes to the overall rate of unemployment and, above all, the fact that Minister Lindström, like this government, is now facing some of the sins of the past in the sense that, in the past years, Finland has abandoned the line of active Nordic employment policy, and the result is this: long-term unemployment is increasing all the time and, most worryingly, the number of people who have been unemployed for more than two years. And the longer this unemployment lasts, the weaker are the person’s own fins to survive. In the 1990s, when I was the head of the Employment Office in the worst unemployment municipality in Finland, Salla, at the time of the worst recession — the unemployment rate in the municipality was 38% — the fact that there was some predictability in terms of the budget was of great importance, although of course the money was not enough. And, in itself, where that money comes from is not relevant, as long as its use is flexible. For example, I personally traded directly with the unemployed: if there was a person who was able to collect part of that condition of employment in order to fulfil the condition of working, I made an offer that the labour administration would meet and that the support work would put an end to the fact that the person was able to secure his or her family and his or her own basic security in that way. And that was done by knowing what the financial situation was. Now no one has really had that information, and there is no proper employment office network or people who catch up with the unemployed. It is not the number of officials that is essential in the Danish model, but the fact that much more resources are being invested in it. A few years ago, for example, the employment rate of disabled persons was 8 times higher than in Finland, taking into account gross domestic product and unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u31	Mr President! Of course, in the course of this debate, we must always remember the great picture of the situation that has taken place. Of course, time has been very difficult, and many painful things have been done. But then it is often also such a question of view, of course, when we go to these three-monthly interviews. Yes, I can see that they also have a huge opportunity, first and foremost, to direct and provide support and to catch up on the fact that we are going through these issues together. Not everyone has the safety net they should have at all, and that is why it is important that even the closest relative can ultimately be an authority. Mr President! However, on a large scale, unemployment has fallen. Last year in September the unemployment rate was 8.4 per cent, this year 7.7 per cent. If you put these in that big context, then the direction seems to be the right one, and a lot of positive news has come from many different industries and industries. Of course, this is such a whole: when you make difficult decisions and blackmails and austerity measures, you have to put them all in perspective and understand the problem and the problem of the situation of a person who has long been out of work. Of course, such a personal approach is also needed, and I think that is what this three-month interview, for example, will bring up.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u32	Madam President! The government's objective is certainly good when it comes to reducing structural unemployment, lowering the employment threshold and reducing periods of unemployment. One of the core problems at the moment, apart from the lack of jobs, is that we have a very complex employment support system which does not support the recruitment of the long-term unemployed. The development of the support system needs to draw on the user's perspective, i.e. the expertise of the companies using the support. If we want to facilitate the employment of the long-term unemployed, the most effective would be to reduce the administrative burden on employers in applying for employment subsidies. Minister, how do you assess, as Minister, whether this system is as bureaucratic as the current system, and how can you convince entrepreneurs that it is worth actually taking advantage of this new opportunity?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u33	Mr President! It has been said here today that these measures will reduce public resources, but this is the other way around. Interviews every three months will require more public resources and will require more money: 17 million, as the Minister has just said. Has it been calculated, Minister, how much this will affect, for example, the increase in discretionary social security expenditure if these reductions come in one day per month, which means three days in three months? Everyone hopes that this will not happen, but, Minister, has it been considered that the possibility that the Ministry of Employment, the employment offices will have an obligation to point out to an unemployed person who comes for an interview, a job for 18 hours or a place of employment policy for 18 hours, which would allow a person to somehow catch up with life but will not lose anything if he alone is not able to obtain it? Then there's another thing. Now, if we are talking about this recruitment experiment or voluntary free work, what a person can do now, I am terribly wondering why this is being punished. I understand that in this voluntary free work the condition of working is not met, and the question is: if you are in a voluntary free job, is this 18-hour working condition required for three-month interviews? Or if, in two months, you cannot arrange for 18 hours of work and have worked for a month’s free work, then you will be punished for taking away three days’ daily allowance — is that so? And it is strange that the punishment for voluntary activities is both in this voluntary work and in self-study. But now that we are all united, we are all trying to make this country rise.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u34	President! There is no need for the opposition to praise this whole package of laws — it is clear that we are moving towards a more active and responsive labour market policy. There are many difficulties, of course, but at the same time this is well timed, because we are on a growth path, although it is still fragile, but yet we are on a growth path, plus the fact that unemployment has certainly fallen for the first time in eight years. According to Statistics Finland's figures, 21,000 unemployed persons are now less than one year ago. It is a great thing that we are moving towards extending the possibility of subsidised employment. This will increase people's faith in the future, break the cycle of unemployment and enable them to find employment at a later stage. There have been criticisms and concerns about these interviews: I understand that such an interviewing officer is a cross-walker, a sparrer and an incentive, but the key is that these officials, in the midst of their many pressures at work, are up to their duties. I would like to ask the Minister whether the preparation of these TE officials is already under way for this very large and demanding work. And I would also like to ask whether it has been in the debate when it comes to planning this whole, and whether it has also been in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u35	Mr President! Having praised this proposal, these many measures in themselves deserve praise, but if we look at this big picture, then the impact on employment is very vaguely assessed. In fact, this Unemployment Protection Act estimates that its employment impact would be hundreds, at most a thousand. And when we asked the expert in the committee whether this is rather a savings law on unemployment security, because it thinks that there will be savings through sanctions, or the employment law, we did not get an answer to this. So this one package is about a hundred, and then we look at that security package, so there is no employment impact, it is a question of people remaining capable of working and getting some help. And then, when you read through this labour market package and its impact on employment, this active model actually corrects the cut that has been made for the pay subsidy model. So once the money has been withdrawn from normal TEM 51, then the money will be taken from the active side of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and used in exactly the same way as it has been used from that point 51. This is the procedure we have had in the past, and it has ensured that there is enough money for paragraph 51. But this is not a new instrument, it is just making two items of money available in the same way. The new idea would have been in this automatic way, for example, when the concern here, on the right side of the hall, about how the entrepreneur experiences red tape in these matters of employment subsidies, would have been dissolved and at the same time would have been spared the workforce of these TE Office officials for quality interviews. After all, interviews have been conducted now, but when there is no time, too few, they have been done too quickly and too overdoingly. If this automatic model, the Antti Rinte model, were in use, then we would spend the same money, but we would.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u36	Mr President! In principle, I very much welcome this recruitment experiment. In my opinion, we need more experiments based on voluntary nature, and on that basis let us see what happens, what kind of behavioural effects we may be able to achieve. However, there is also the possibility of abuse and fear of abuse, and that is why I would like to ask the Minister what kind of follow-up has been carried out and how the results of this experiment will be evaluated, then whether people can be factually involved with their freedom as to whether employers are using this in the way they are supposed to be. Second thing, these three-month interviews: I deal with a lot of unemployed people. I have never yet met an unemployed person who would say that his employment depends on being invited to a debate with the authorities once every three months. Instead, I have met many unemployed people who feel that their employment would be improved if someone answered the phone when they had a question they needed an answer to. It would improve their employment if they caught up with the official and could ask how this job is going and that officer had the necessary know-how to answer these questions. Now my fear is that these three-month mechanical interviews take so much time and resources that it has already said that it is almost impossible to meet this personal need of the unemployed in any way, that people can get help when they need it, not when the deadline is full.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u37	Mr President! I would have continued to speak on behalf of Mr Filatov by returning to the fact that these interviews are in themselves a positive thing if they lead to support for people and to building the path towards work, rather than to such carnage and domesticities, which the Minister also wanted to emphasise that these are not. There is, of course, the side of this: if, in the case of the three-month interview, it could then be demonstrated that there are sufficient financial resources to allocate these people either to paid employment, training or rehabilitative activities, then there is a good path to it. But it is not fair if the result of such an interview does not give rise to such an opportunity and then start banging on these carnivals. I will come back to whether it has now been thought that a new or overlapping system will be created for the consequences of these interviews. In this respect, one more important point: Today, the amount of self-employed unemployment benefit is higher than that of studies through employment training. We believe that these criteria for studying with unemployment benefit should be further reduced, even on a fixed-term basis, so that people can make better use of this opportunity. I would like to return to the question of whether it would not be possible to think of a significant proportion of these projects, which are part of this employment package, moving to spring and to be negotiated on a tripartite basis, in particular, that this interview and the related debate on the question of the issue of unemployment security should be included in the larger package, so that we can see the whole picture and not just this partial reform, which can easily become a big mess.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u39	Madam President! When we were talking about these business trips and the use of my own car, I will check with the Minister that I have understood correctly that these hourly limits for commuting remain, however, that nothing has been opened here to allow business trips to take up to 10 hours. Somehow this conversation may not have been passed on to the listener on the other side of the screen. And apparently, you did not have time to reply to your own car report that your own announcement was enough. — The Minister nods here so that everyone who is watching this can now say so. I cannot say about that when Mr Kontula suggested that not all those whom he has met want interviews.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u42	Mr President! I could answer that question. The idea is that, once unemployment has lasted a certain period, the wage subsidy at the level of labour market support would be as if it were a bill and would automatically be brought in by an unemployed job seeker when he was applying for a job and would be automatically obtained by the employer, but the employer would have to convince him that he did not resign or have a readmission obligation. And if he failed that confidence, then, of course, in such inspectional situations there would be an obligation to repay the aid, but if he acted honestly and he did not have a readmission obligation, he would not have laid off the workers, then he would have that money without any bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u43	Mr President! I'm glad now that this model of the slope is really starting to interest me.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u48	Madam President! Many of these aspects of the first legislative package have been taken up here and in a positive spirit, and I could continue with that. A job seeker is entitled to a adjusted unemployment benefit if he has such a short-term employment relationship, for example, and I believe that this is also important from the point of view of preventing undeclared jobs from happening, and I think it is important that we start thinking that if you accept short-term work, it can be reconciled with unemployment benefit, and thus the situation in the unemployed person's life always improves every moment. Last year, when there was a lot of debate about how this position as an entrepreneur could be better coordinated and, as far as I can see, how the agreed unemployment benefit could be better coordinated and I was promised some sort of study of this issue, I do not know whether the government has acted on it, but there was little fear that the small business people would then be put on the side of entrepreneurship and that they would be able to get this adjusted daily allowance. I would like the Minister to be able to comment on it. Once again, I would like to mention this, which has now been said to be the worst of the three proposals here together, namely the amendment of this unemployment benefit law to the effect that the unemployed person must take up work in such a way as to reduce his or her life situation. Yesterday we had a debate on this basic security proposal from the government, and I would have argued that the government would withdraw, when there are so many other things that have been able to cancel, this unnecessary basic safety experiment and go on, for example, to take up the idea of basic security that encourages it, in which the worker always gets better if he takes up the job. That should be the idea, not the fact that life is deteriorating from it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u49	One last speech before the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u50	Mr President! This active use of unemployment benefit is a very good thing, it is as commendable as it may be. I have a few questions for the Minister: As I get paid, I wonder about these maximum percentages for the additional parts. Is it not a risk that when there is a shortage of money, they can be used to reduce these percentages, and this then easily leads to this kind of arbitrage in these decisions? What's the logic here? My second question relates to this recruitment experiment. I think it is good that the work experiment was abandoned, and it is good that it is now a temporary experiment, so if this does not work, then it will be easier to stop the experiment. But it is still a little unclear to me: is this somehow an overlapping model with the probation period, and if it is a question of voluntaryity, then what if employers start to demand a probationary period, as it were, before it is possible for the worker to enter the labour market? Then, in this case of expenses, I think there is such a contradiction that, if you are obliged to work, the expenses will be paid, but if you voluntarily take part in studies, for example, then it will not be paid. So what's the logic here? In summary, the government should decide which line it wishes to take: Are the unemployed being picked up or believed in the power of the services? Are sanctions being used, or is the government, for example, more in line with the basic income debate yesterday? Because there are very conflicting points of view in these different legislative proposals. To the end, I would like to thank you for the temporary consolidation of Article 6(2) of Chapter 13 of the Employment Contracts Act in force in 2015-2016, which would have brought a catastrophic situation to the employment of organisations. But I am very concerned about the employment potential of organisations. There is a risk that government action will reduce
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u51	After Mr Lindström's intervention, let us move back to the list of speakers. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u52	Mr President! I will start with Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's concern regarding this pay subsidy and these percentages. Thus, as a general rule, wage subsidies will continue to be granted between 30 % and 40 % but not more than 50 %. It makes it possible to lower the subsidy rate in such a situation where the Employment and Economic Development Office no longer has the employment allowance available to make decisions on pay subsidies. In this case, the wage subsidy could be granted if the employer is prepared to employ the unemployed with a basic daily allowance for unemployment benefits, i.e. this will bring flexibility to this system. Then, in fact, in this big picture, Mr Ihalainen and a little Mr Lindtman were enthusiastic about what he said. Congressman Lindtman couldn't believe his ears. This government has brought, I would say, a considerable number of different government proposals in relation to the unemployment benefit system, in general in relation to this employment. It's not here. There's more coming.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u57	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u70	President! I would also like to mention that, when more than one speech rightly raised concerns about how the employment services can cope with this burden when people have been cut off, this is a well-founded question. And the sad thing is that since the 1990s our employment administration has been driven down. There were many comparisons of resources with Denmark and Sweden. At the end of the 1980s, when the resources in Finland were much larger, they were much smaller than in Sweden or Denmark. But it was said yes that two things in Finland work best in the world: Finland is the best library institution in the world, and Finland has the best employment agency in the world. As far as the library is concerned, this may still be the case, but the dismantling of the labour market is a very sad thing, and it is not a good thing, especially for young people, that a lot of services are being passed on to the Internet and that there is no proper encounter. As a result, I see this interview as a very positive thing that will enable us to face up to it, provided that it is really done well and that the officials are trained and trained for this task.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u71	Madam President! Actually, I'll pick up where Mr. Kivelä left off. It is terribly important that these encounters are genuine and not just tick the box, that the person has been and we have been through these and these things, but there is no content. Now this lack of resources is obvious, and indeed the Minister acknowledged it, and he has said that now with these resources it is completely impossible to go through it in such a way that there are factual grounds to believe that, after these 3 months of meetings, this person will have the opportunity to become more employable or to be guided by training which will then be able to be employed in the future. It is terribly important to note that regional disparities are indeed large. 3 months in the absence of any job vacancies: it has been the basis of this government proposal that job vacancies and unemployed people should be faced, but there are areas where there are no job vacancies. In that sense, there is a bit of a contradiction between this situation and the fact that, in a sense, money is being cut from this educational sector to active employment for the purpose of replacing this money for employment, when it should be precisely possible for these unemployed people to face up to their free jobs. And this will not solve the problem yet if we cut money from the very sector where we need to be trained.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u72	Mr President! This is a very important piece of legislation relating to the Competitiveness Pact. In my opinion, the competitiveness pact itself was an important and positive issue for Finland. It will stabilise price competitiveness and mobilise investment, as we see little now. But it is also a question of actually moving towards a more active employment policy rather than a left-wing, old, passive labour market policy. Of course, it is a good thing that the unemployed are faced with this activating. Among other things, start-up money and partly unemployment security are being taken in the direction of a more active labour market policy. We really need the 110,000 jobs in Finland if and when we are securing the foundation of a Finnish welfare society, and in that sense I really would like to see a very broad front in Parliament now moving towards an activating employment policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u73	You can reserve your speeches with a P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u74	Mr President! Let me briefly say to Mrs Myllykoski that it is true that regional disparities are large and there are areas where jobs are not available in the same way as elsewhere. Nevertheless, I think we can agree that it is a positive thing for an unemployed person to be confronted at least every three months and together with him to consider what can be done in such a situation. And I fully agree with you that re-training, for example, is an important option and, of course, those training places will be needed. To Mrs Myller, it is an important position in principle that the unemployed person should accept the appropriate work on offer. This is an important position in principle, because if an unemployed person takes up a suitable job on offer, then he or she mainly takes care of his or her own livelihood and the other workers take care of his or her livelihood only to a small extent. Instead, if his unemployment continues, in practice it means that other workers through taxes take care of his livelihood. In other words, as a matter of principle, I think it is very important that every person who is able to work should first and foremost try to take care of his or her own livelihood. If we have such systems, as I said, where parliamentarians think people can afford to be unemployed but cannot afford to go to work, then it is our common duty to repair these systems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u75	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz: We agree exactly. It's better to face each other every three months than not meet each other for a year and a half. The government must be commended for this policy, because this is a more humane and more employable policy. I do not know where Mr Ala-Nissilä got the 'left-wing passive employment policy'. Perhaps it is worth browsing the history of who has been in the government when these unemployment benefit systems have been created in this country. Perhaps that stone is found in your own shoes, and then you should look boldly in the mirror and confess your sins if you feel it. But, Mr Ala-Nissila, we need an active policy on people's employment, and in that sense the Left Alliance can proudly say that we have offered entrepreneurs opportunities to employ an employee under the age of 25, a student who has been unemployed for 200 days or a student who has completed a 30-year-old qualification. In other words, in the first year we will give all social insurance and social security contributions to employers free of charge, i.e. 100% reduction in the first year, 70% in the second year, 30% in the following year. Let us lower the threshold so that it is possible for all companies to do so. We want to make it possible for the unemployed to be employed and we are in favour of active action to create them
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u76	Mr President! For that active employment: It should also be borne in mind that although the government’s objective is the employment rate of 72%, which is about 110,000 new jobs, we still have a very large number of long-term unemployed and other unemployed people who need employment funds. For me, employment is, above all, the most active thing that sustains an employed person's desire to remain in employment, his working condition and professional skills, and all the other social measures that improve something in that person are, in my opinion, all active measures. It's not a trick. It's a matter of taking care of that person. This is a very important aspect of employment, with which we must move forward here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u77	Mr President! Indeed, in my view — and I am replying to what has just been said — Finland has moved into a more active period. When I look at the last parliamentary term so widely, a lot of time of inactivity, the time of tax extortion, became 100,000 new unemployed. Now it really is happening in many ways when there is a strategic government programme aimed at this change, and we see that the first signs are there: employment and economic growth have begun, the employment situation is beginning to improve, and it creates confidence in the Finnish economy, trust is very important that investments are generated, and so on. This is part of what we are doing, including these active employment measures. I have never seen that the basic element of unemployment benefit could indeed be used to finance wage subsidies, start-up grants and mobility grants on a fixed-term basis. If we do not have the money to finance it, it would create this new kind of activity that we really need in employment policy. Of course, the foundation lies in companies and businesses' activities and investments, which I particularly hope for now, when four orders were received in one month, almost one billion per copy, from where I come from. The bioeconomy, the wood processing industry, too, has a lot of potential in tourism. It is now important to mobilise these investments, and it is up to us to send out signals here that Finland is moving towards a more active policy and action, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u78	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u79	Mr President! This issue, the framework of reference, improves the clarity and functionality of the Finnish qualifications system and increases the transparency and comparability of qualifications at national and international level, supports recognition of qualifications and promotes national and international mobility and the conditions for cooperation in education and training, i.e. many important issues. These reference frameworks rose to the debate on education policy in the EU in the 1990s and were based on the need to increase the transparency and transparency of education and training systems and qualifications and also to promote the recognition of previously acquired skills in the spirit of lifelong learning and to emphasise the importance of learning outcomes in the organisation of education and training. This framework also supports the development of the education system and enables us to identify and develop the strengths of our own education system and also to remedy the shortcomings in our system. It is a very good thing that this matter is finally coming to Parliament, and I look forward to it being discussed in that committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u80	President! Yes, this is indeed a proposal which has probably already lapsed a few times in the previous parliamentary term. Education in EU reality is something that can be decided at national level, but there are always small signals that the Commission would like to play a more active role in education. In an internationalising world, this issue of the framework of reference is very good from the point of view of this comparability and transparency, but also in relation to the fact that these shortcomings in our education and training system are actually being remedied. Like Mrs Eloranna, I also look forward to this committee reading in the Committee on Education and Culture. Personally, I am a little surprised that such units of qualifications are lacking in ecclesiastical professional and official qualifications. I myself myself worked very hard for a degree, and I consider my degree to be part of that category 8, that is, the highest level of Licentiate, Doctor and General Staff. I hope there will be some clarity in the committee on this too. — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u81	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u82	Mr President! The recent debate on the framework for qualifications and skills was positive news in the field of education, and this is definitely the next news that will especially warm families with children. The Ministry of Education and Culture has prepared a government proposal for a new law on early childhood education fees. Early childhood education fees will be reduced. The income thresholds on which the payment is made will be increased so that payments for smaller families, i.e. two and three persons, will be reduced. In particular, this change will make it easier for single-parent families on low incomes, whose payments will be reduced or even eliminated altogether. A lot of families with children live on a tight leash. Having a child takes place in life at a time when many of the basic pillars of life are just being built. Often we are at the beginning of a career, perhaps just studying, getting a home, a car, furniture, childcare. There are often no savings yet, we take out loans and we calculate euros. With a single parent of one child on low income, the monthly charge for early childhood education can decrease by up to EUR 85 per month with this proposal. This will promote employment and equality and facilitate the economic situation of families with children. Reasonable early childhood education fees support opportunities for family members to work and increase incentives to take up work. No increases will be made to the maximum fees. The highest fee is, as is the case today, EUR 290, and the so-called zero rate is maintained, which means that early childhood education is still free of charge for the most low incomes. Relative to early childhood education by municipalities, for example, hour-based customer fees models can continue to be used and developed. Mr President! In the future, more and more children will have the opportunity to participate in early childhood education. The child benefits from early childhood education in many ways. Studies show that participation in it prevents exclusion, equalises differences in home background and supports later learning. This presentation will enable more and more children to participate in a strong, high-quality, constantly evolving early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u83	Mr President! I would like to thank Minister Grahn-Laso warmly for having this proposal here. I am convinced that, once the Minister has had to defend the difficult savings proposals agreed together in the Government Programme, it is certainly a good task for the Minister to propose such a change, which is very welcome for families with children with low incomes. Even in the previous debate, there was talk of incentive traps. Thus, an incentive trap would mean a situation in which a person should not take up a job, or, in the case of a working person, a situation in which he should hardly take up a new, more challenging job, even if it is paid a little more. Perhaps it is in the case of families with children with low incomes that the worst incentive trap is created, in which the incentive trap is actually affected by three elements: if a person moves into employment, his income will improve, i.e. his taxation will increase. On the other hand, when a person moves into work and income improves, housing allowance often decreases or disappears. And thirdly, when a person moves to work as a social security thief and his income improves, there is often an increase in day care fees for low income families with children. This proposal by the government before us is a very good and well-founded proposal, because by reducing the daily care fees for low-income families, this proposal will contribute to alleviating the incentive traps of these families and always making work worthwhile.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u84	Mr President! Children start school from increasingly different backgrounds. Even the poverty of a family with children is an increasing number of children’s daily lives. High-quality early childhood education is effective in stopping the cycle of underprivileged participation and improving the learning opportunities of the child in the school path. Despite this, Finland participates in early childhood education at the lowest level in Europe. Only 75% of those over 4 years of age take part in early childhood education, compared with almost 96% in Sweden, up to 100 in France. It is clear that we in Finland should also increase the participation rate in early childhood education. The best way to achieve this would be to offer everyone over 3 years of age free part-time early childhood education, just as we offer pre-school education. This is already being done in every other European country. In order to continue part-time early childhood education according to the needs of the family, paid day care would be provided. It is possible to implement this model if it is not cost-neutrally at such a low cost, since the current day care fees, which cover around 15% of the cost of day care, can be charged for supplementary care. In this way participation in early childhood education must also be raised to the European level in Finland. Mr President! By investing in children, we also invest in the future. The most productive investment is under school age, as according to the OECD, the investment of the euro in early childhood education brings benefits of EUR 7. It is quite shortsighted that the size of day care centres has now been increased in such a way that in the future there can be 24 children in the group of three adults instead of 21 children and up to 33 part-time children. The government has also made it possible to limit full-time care for children whose other parent is at home. However, it is a good thing and it is a good thing that this increase in child care fees that has already been introduced into Parliament has now been abolished. This is a good decision. It is very good that the government has listened to the opposition and the rest of the surrounding society on this issue. We can really rejoice in this together. Thank you for that. Now, however, we need to change the direction of education policy and it is worth starting from the beginning of the school path, that is, from early childhood education. Indeed, free part-time early childhood education for children over 3 years of age would guide families to early childhood education in the interests of the child and at the same time would be a much better option than limiting subjective day care rights. I hope that the government will be active in this matter and will explore the various possibilities for achieving this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u86	You can ask for speeches with a P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u87	Mr President! There has been a great deal of talk about early childhood education fees over the past year, and I am very pleased with the final form to which this proposal gave way, that in the proposal day care fees will fall and not rise. Now customer fees for low income families with two and three people become easier. This, admittedly, is very important in terms of how to go to work on low incomes, for example. The payment for part-time early childhood education is also staggered so that, on average, if early childhood education lasts no more than 20 hours a week, the payment would be 60% of the full-time payment, i.e. no more than EUR 174. A full-time fee shall be charged for early childhood education of at least 35 hours per week. If the number of hours is between 20 and 35 instead, the municipality may relate the payment to the actual time. By the way, there is certainly a large amount of money going around Finland to the hourly-based payment system, which has very good experiences across the country. This is a nice bill among the many difficult and tightening measures. Of course, you can also think about that further progress. At this point, however, we must thank the Minister for Education for finally giving in to this form. Even the fact that the gap that this becomes for municipalities, about EUR 9 million, is compensated through real estate tax is a reasonably creative solution. Thank you for this presentation. Indeed, this will facilitate the daily lives of many low-income people and the fact that children will also be brought into very good early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u88	President! I too would very much like to express my appreciation for the fact that we are at this stage that this bill is in the referral debate and on our table, even though the process involved does not necessarily deserve very high stylistic points. That, unfortunately, everything was in place on this journey, but as a whole it is a matter of handing out to families with children, especially those who are financially tight. In the lower income categories, payments are falling, which is of course a great thing. And, as the Minister quite rightly said, it is during the peak years of life, when children appear, that purchases are made in connection with the home and everything necessary is very tight in the economy. It is a matter for the social partners and a place for a whole other epistle, but it is sometimes a question of how fair a solution would be to pay some kind of need — that such practices should be followed more. But indeed we already have a high-quality early childhood education system. We have high-quality teachers, teachers with good professional ethics, and other staff. But we really do have less participation in early childhood education than in many control countries. In this respect, we have something to develop. On the one hand, I also throw the ball to the parents of the children, the guardians, to be brave enough to demand a more diverse approach.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u89	Mr President! Finland now has high-quality early childhood education, but hopefully also in the future. This Government proposal on the future of early childhood education fees is a very good compromise on the option of increasing customer fees. It is important for the government to see early childhood education widely so that different forms of care and care can be selected according to the situation of families. This may be the reform that will take place during this reign, the reform of early childhood education, Prince Number One. It is important to remember that the municipalities themselves will decide the final amount of these customer charges. And it is important that we consider the real-time transfer of early childhood education to the hourly customer fee in all respects, so that the size of the family, the income limits and the time spent are reflected in that customer fee genuinely and truly. Personally, I personally want to encourage families to consider the current care and care situation, depending on whether the child is taken to day care or whether there are different forms of open, part-time care. These are all good, not only because we are in full-time care or simply opting for early childhood education outside the family. It is important that we have different forms of care and care. One of the most important aspects of the government’s proposal is also the reduction in customer fees for low income families with two and three people. This creates room for manoeuvre in the economic everyday life of families. Single parents in particular have been remembered, and sister discounts have also been taken into account,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u90	Mr President! Indeed, as Mr Zyskowicz said earlier in this debate, much has been said in Parliament this week about incentives traps and barriers to taking up work. This government proposal, which now includes a reduction in child care fees for low-income families, is a very important step in the right direction. As can be seen from the explanatory statement of the proposal, family day care fees fall by approximately EUR 60 per month in single-parent or two-child families where the gross income of the guardian is about EUR 2200 per month. As a representative Kivelä said, so this presentation is a very important hand-out for many workers and also contributes to future employment conditions when it is easier to get along with the salary. In the case of single-parent families with higher incomes, day-care fees are also, as a rule, somewhat reduced, and small reductions are also known for low-income families with two working parents and one child. It is also noteworthy that payments do not increase in any income category. Moreover, taking into account, for example, the income tax reductions related to the draft budget for next year, the purchasing power of many low income families of children will be greatly improved. Of course, municipalities will also be able to decide in the future to charge day care fees, which are lower than the maximum fees laid down by law. Mr President! Like many previous speakers in this debate, I would also like to express my warm thanks to the government for the welcome legislative proposal, which is an expression of a family-friendly policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u91	Mr President! In this context, of course, we must thank the government for not going to implement its original proposal to increase the customer fees for early childhood education and day care, but to change its policy and has now made good use of customer benefits specifically for low income families with children. A few words about day care, which, of course, is part of this legislation on customer fees. High-quality early childhood education is an effective means of promoting the well-being of children. In addition to supporting school capacity and lifelong learning, it is a particularly effective means of preventing exclusion and overgeneration from being disadvantaged. Early childhood education equalises the differences arising from children’s starting points and creates equality of opportunity. In their 2013 report to the Ministry of Finance, Professors Jorma Sipilä and Eva Österbacka stressed that international studies have identified early childhood education as the most effective and cost-effective way to ensure the well-being and development of children. This is why it is always worthwhile to invest in early childhood education. For this reason, it has been truly regrettable, unfair and unequal that the government has limited the subjective, equal right of children to early childhood education. The government has divided children into unequal positions according to the situation in their parents’ lives. Limiting the subjective right to day care can lead to a situation where families are offered part-time services under less stringent conditions. In this case, the size of the groups will be higher, the staff will be less qualified and, for example, there may be a lack of food. We already have experiences of this in different parts of Finland. Subjective day care law is particularly important for disadvantaged families, which, according to studies, equalises social inequalities in education and income levels and serves as a preventative to the deepening of existing problems. For this reason, the fact that the government is now making it easier for low-income working parents to get day care for children more cheaply is in itself a good thing, but this does not apply to everyone equally, on an equal footing. The European Commission has collected information on the importance and effectiveness of early childhood education services in the report. Among other things, it states that affordability is a key factor in the availability of services. This applies in particular to those children who have the greatest need for services, as is often the case with children of low-income families. The majority of European countries provide children with at least one year of free early childhood education before compulsory education begins. In about half of the European countries, early childhood education is free for children aged 3 years and older until the beginning of compulsory education. In Finland, customer fees are significantly higher than the European average, and Finland is an exception in Europe as it does not provide free early childhood education for children under school age. Sweden, to which we often compare ourselves, also offers free early childhood education services for 15 hours a week for every child, whether or not their parents are working. For this reason, I also hope that we here will go together to develop a European model of early childhood education, even if gradually, and in a way similar to that in Sweden and Europe, we would move towards free early childhood education from 3 years onwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u92	Mr President! I would like to join in the speeches made, for example, by representatives Kivelä, Vehkaperä and now by Mr Kiljunen, that Finland has an excellent and good early childhood education system and that our children receive really good care and education in these day-care centres in the current system. I also think it is a great thing that Parliament has unanimously thanked this good government proposal in this debate. On the other hand, there does not seem to be anyone in this Chamber, for example the Greens or the Left Alliance. Of course, they are there in social media to communicate how Sipilä’s government in all its reverses beats up families with children and takes a lollipop out of their mouths. In this context, I would like to say a few words about family leave, to which Mr Vehkaperä referred, among other things, in the debate. I believe it is important to respect the freedom of choice for families, to promote equality and also to promote the participation of women in the labour market. And on these grounds, I understand that the government is launching a preparatory process leading to the reform of family leave, which is what Prime Minister Sipilä referred to last Sunday in his interview with the Prime Minister. On the other hand, there is also a record in the Government Programme that the government is critical of all systems that mean that people of working age and capable of working are long away from working life. I wish this family reform success.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u93	Mr President! Indeed, according to a report by the European Commission, the affordability of early childhood education services is a key factor in the availability of services, particularly for children who have the greatest need for services and children from families with lower incomes. This government proposal really makes it easier for children from low-income families to get into early education, and that is an excellent thing. I also share these numerous thanks in this Chamber, which we have heard. This is an excellent performance. This proposal will make it easier for families of two and three: lower fees and then improve incentives to work for these families. Representative Vehkaperä raised the issue of hourly billing, and there are good examples of this in Finland. These experiments in different cities should be taken into account in future changes and, perhaps, in Finland as a whole, switch to hourly invoicing. For example, there are good examples of how very significant sums of money have been saved with this hourly billing. This improves equality and, as has been said here, high-quality early childhood education in Finland is our happiness, and this is also a great investment in early childhood education. Surely we are well aware of how small the amount of early childhood education will bring large, multiple sums of money elsewhere. This is a good health, social, physical, educational and alcohol policy while we invest in early childhood education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u94	Mr President! For a couple of hours before this debate, employment was discussed and several references were made to these incentives traps, and now we have one incentive trap here to reduce, that is to say to allow low income families to make the choice of going to work and then putting the child in early childhood education services. But I stress that families must have a genuine choice as to whether to care for the child at home and then take part in open activities or to take the child to day care. I myself would have liked to have had more time with the child at home, but that was not possible. However, this is an excellent handout for families with children, the lowest income families. Knowing that the marginal conditions of the economy are very strict, now comes such a hand extension. I am sure the Minister will be pleased to present such a proposal, but I too, as a member of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, am delighted to be able to listen to this proposal there and to hear expert opinions. The previous ones on a similar subject that we went through a few months ago were very sad. But it does surprise me that why it is seen as such a problem that a performance is taken back or changed. All I can see is that it's getting better and better. Shouldn't we be glad things are going better?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u95	I would also like to thank you for the fact that this kind of government proposal is now in this referral debate. The aim is to promote access to early childhood education, as has been heard here, by reducing fees. Payments are still determined by the size of the family, incomes and early childhood education period, and what a nice thing to do, the government unanimously agreed that low income payments are calculated. After all, the maximum contribution for one child would be 90 % of the total contribution for the first child and the maximum contribution for the second child would not exceed EUR 261. In the government's proposal, the income thresholds for families with two and three are raised. Then I thought that, according to Statistics Finland, at the moment, 71% have one under the age of seven and 21% have two children under the age of seven, and that it seems to me that this birth rate in our country is very low. How is it improved? It is interesting and good to note that our girls and sons receive such good, quality early childhood education in kindergartens. Of course, children of those who do not take children there are also taught at home. Whether we are at home or at day clubs, we should always draw attention to children's comments, opinions that they are not strongly rejected, and the child should always have a chance to participate, and then when something is planned, it is also planned on the child's terms. We should always be parents, wherever we meet these little children, in their thoughts really
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u96	Mr President! I consider the Finnish early childhood education system, Finnish day care, to be a very good system. It enables many positive things, that both parents have the opportunity to be involved in working life, to take their careers forward, on the one hand, to enable young children to develop their social skills at an early age in different groups, and on the other hand, to prepare for the beginning of comprehensive school. However, I would like to point out that it specifically makes these things possible and not Finnish early childhood education, our day care system, to be seen as the only or necessary condition for not learning something else through these same skills. Families have very different situations. Some families see and experience when there is a large number of children, that it is a good decision that one of the parents is at home, or it may be found that the day care of the children while the parents are working is done, for example by taking the children to the grandparents or other relatives, and all such options are fine. By no means should we give the impression that, in many cases, families themselves are unable to provide the capacity for children in their controlled form of early childhood education. I see it as important that Finnish families retain a genuine choice and that neither parents and families who choose to choose differently are blamed in this debate. Early childhood education is possible, but it should not be the only socially accepted option.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u97	Mr President! It is good to continue with that good speech by Mr Rydman, because this government proposal in the debate is a good one. It provides more opportunities for different families to make decisions, taking into account the different starting points of families and different working and life situations. The proposal promotes the equality of working life, the purchasing power of families with children and improves the opportunities for children to participate in early childhood education. It is important that this law provides for customer fees for day care and family day care provided by the municipality, but in such a way that other early childhood education organised by the municipality, such as club activities or other open activities, can still be decided by the municipality itself. It is good and fair for the payment to be determined on the basis of the size and income of its family and the days of early childhood education. Of course, the proposal proposes to increase the income limits on which the levy is imposed, so that, in the case of smaller families, i.e. two and three, the customer fees for early childhood education are reduced. In particular, the change facilitates customer fees for early childhood education of a single parent with a low income and two children. As for the hourly billing raised in the debate, it has been tried at least in Oulu since last autumn in a few day-care centres. It's a good thing we're trying it out. However, it is also important to be aware of the concern expressed by early childhood education professionals that parents do not make quick decisions about daily child care hours solely on financial grounds. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Grahn-Laasonen for this sensible proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u98	Mr President! In his own speech, Mr Kiljunen raised the Government's decision to restrict subjective day care rights, and it was indeed done, but every child still has the right to 20 weeks of early childhood education. This is a legal number of hours, and it needs to be followed. But there are exceptions when a child is entitled to full-time early childhood education, especially when parents or other guardians work full-time or study, act as entrepreneurs or work full-time. The right to full-time early childhood education is also granted where necessary due to the child’s development or family circumstances. I think it is important that we have a broad understanding of different forms of care and care in early childhood education for the implementation of early childhood education. In addition to the right to day care, which may also be full-time or part-time, the provision of open early childhood education, club activities, third-sector early childhood education services, not to mention what genuinely and truly high-quality and good early childhood education in families parents as primary guardians of children can give their own children. It is important that we develop early childhood education services in different forms according to the situation in the family. Freedom of choice must be maintained, and parental responsibility for education must be supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u99	Värderade Talman! As Mrs Parviainen said, this is an excellent hand extension. More about it without twisting a joke, you can say that it is great if we have been able to help with this translation even a little bit. Mr Zyskowicz raised the question of the reform of parental leave, and that is definitely the next step here. Last year, ministers Grahn-Laasonen and He was trying to bring it up. At that time, the Minister of Foreign Affairs said that there is a fundamental Finnish family policy here. Later, Mr Sarkomaa, Sirén, Grahn-Laasonen, raised the matter for the second time, and I believe that Mr Saarikko also raised the issue quite recently. That's when they said at the mouth of the secretary of state that what hate this is for a housewife. I personally cannot combine trying to improve the position of women in the labour market with any form of hatred, and given that the government has an objective of raising the employment rate to 72%, that would be a logical step. It is a question of parental leave, of course, it is also a question of home care support, which is a very exceptional arrangement, as it is on a Nordic scale. Another thing that separates us from the other Nordic countries is, of course, high day care fees and also low participation in early childhood education in general. Now that these things are being carried forward, hopefully with all the government parties, why not the opposition, you could look at the shadow budget of the RKP, which now has the 6+6+6 model and free four-hour early childhood education from the age of three. It is one model which, of course, brings additional costs. Another cost-neutral model is the SAK model, which I hope the government will look closely at. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u100	Mr President! Today there is an important debate on how women in particular can access the labour market better, and this early childhood education is, of course, linked to it. It is a very good thing that this government proposal has always included a reduction in early childhood education fees for low-income families. This has been very important from the outset to facilitate employment and then to respond to the economic situation of these low-income families during this tough economic period. If we discuss this limitation of the right to day care, all families and children are still entitled to 20 hours a week of early childhood education and all children who need this full-time care are still entitled to it. It is very good that a better discussion is now taking place with families as to whether they will then need more help. This debate is taking place and families are not left alone in this situation, but this debate is now being conducted much more actively. That's a good thing. Then it goes without saying that in Finland more men need to be taken home to care for children. It is also a will state for men in general, but it is often not possible because of the financial situation of families. Choices have to be made. For example, in my own family, the father of our family has used most of these family leaves with us two and four-year-old children and has been considered a good model. But it has to be said that there is no financial incentive for this at the moment. That's why we need to do the family leave reform properly. This must be done next season in conjunction with the social partners, we must consider the reform of the earnings-related parental allowance period. We have to think about it because this is not just a matter for the government or for Parliament to decide on these. This is very much a task with the labour market. We also need to distinguish how to treat children under the age of three when talking about all children. There's also a difference. Experts say that there is no particular benefit in taking children under the age of three to outside care.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u101	Mr President! Unfortunately, when this child's right to day care and its limitation has now been discussed here, it has already been established in various parts of Finland that the criteria and definitions, when this restriction will be implemented and by which criteria it will be made, vary from one side to another. The unfortunate fact is that it has also become one of the savings of municipalities. By limiting the right to day care, increasing groups, reducing staff, this has also been one of the ways in which municipalities save. Unfortunately, we also have this in South Karelia and in many other municipalities too. But then the second point is that, on the basis of various studies, we have already said today in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health that poverty in the family with children is once again on the increase. In so far as we are looking at this day care customer fee, it is a great thing that for these lowest incomes, those customer fees are really low or they are zero. But the fact is that when they are viewed from gross income, the real net income left available to the family is different. In addition to taking the normal expenses, housing costs, travel expenses, possibly student loans, then the expenses related to the normal life of the family, the net income that will then remain to pay this customer fee will be very tight for families with children when the children are small. For this reason, I would see that we should take a stronger European approach, offering children and offering families free early childhood education for all. Let us look gradually at the fact that since the age of three, as in Sweden and many other European countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u102	Mr President! Just last Monday I was in Vaasa discussing early childhood education with early childhood education professionals. And they had quite a concern that these measurements have now also been changed on the part of early childhood education: fewer staff and larger groups. And now comes this situation, that some of the children are part of the day and some are all day, and there the doors go like saloon doors, that some go out, some come in. Children do not have a particular group of themselves with which to group, but part-time children come there with full-time children for a while and then leave. Well, in children, this naturally makes it clear that "why do I have to be here" and the other one says, "Why can't I be here?" What's better then? Of course I don't even want to talk about this. But I thought I'd give you these greetings. And now that this early education is also involved in this early education, there was great concern about the training of the staff and the educational background. After all, in addition to kindergarten teachers, we have qualified socionomists.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u103	Mr President! This proposal is a very positive one, and this really promotes equality in working life and the purchasing power of families with children and improves access to early childhood education, which is all very important. This is a direct reduction in early childhood education fees, in particular the threshold for low-income single parents to take up work, and this is very important. After this debate on this reform of the family leave, I personally believe that there is no reason to postpone the preparation of the matter and the report for the next period. There is every reason to start the reform work this season. And especially this home care support must be able to be discussed in the light of the needs of today's working life and to get from this agrarian thinking to today's thinking. In my opinion, family policy in Finland has been suspended in some past world in terms of parental leave, which no longer supports the distribution of parenthood or the increase in equality in working life or the promotion of employment in general. In view of these objectives, the reform of the family leave system should be launched this period.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u104	Mr President! Half-day care for 20 hours a week is a sufficient amount of early childhood education, just as it is enough for a primary school student. Surprisingly many families, however, have special reasons, such as mental health problems, which makes a longer day of care justified even though the parent is at home. Indeed, according to the law, full - time care should then continue to be provided, even though this right has now been restricted. But the problem is precisely how the resources of such a family are sufficient to apply for full-time care when they are already scarce. Will the best interests of the child ever come true? And this is the big problem with this limitation of subjective day care rights. And, indeed, this is going to happen in such a way that equality in education is put at risk, because these families may then, in addition to restricting this right, be offered part-time day care on less stringent terms, for example in larger groups, as Mr Tolppanen said here, for example. As the family’s situation changes, the child may even have to change groups, which is not good for the child’s development. According to the information received from the trainer, the creation of cost savings by limiting subjective rights is even questionable. So it's just bad for the kids, but it's not even about saving money.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u105	Mr President! If some savings are to be sought from early childhood education at municipal level, it is the splitting up of this full-time day care system that is one way to consider whether the municipality can organise club activities for young children, for example. There is a model in Oulu where early childhood education is given as a club activity for people between 0 and 5 years two to three times a week and about three hours at a time, and it is free of charge, and it has lifted the pressure from the need for full-time care and has also allowed families to choose such softer bills for early childhood education. It should also be noted that at the moment we have free pre-school education, which is an extremely fine system, which is used to provide school facilities to all Finnish children or children in Finland. At the moment, the public debate on the reform of early childhood education is showing itself to be at least a little stuffy for myself: blaming one of the other, different models, which is right, which is wrong, which promotes equality between women, which is in the interests of the family, the child, and so on. But in my opinion, it is important to put the child's best interests and support for parenthood at the centre. It is time to give way to parents, parents and the right interpretation of what is in the best interests of your child and families.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u106	Mr President! It is good to continue with the previous speaker. Parents today do not have any real choice, for example, that Finnish society does not encourage the combination of part-time work for both parents or other parents, that they and the whole family can also care for children at home if they wish, especially these small children under the age of three, of which experts on the early childhood education and psychology in Finland have found that early education outside the home is of no particular benefit for children under the age of three. I don't think it's a problem, but I don't think it's of any particular use. It may be a good way to organise the family’s practical life and situation, but those goals of early childhood education for children under the age of three do not mean that it should be offered to everyone. No doubt the benefits to the older ones are good. But then on the reform of this family leave system: It must be taken forward, but it must be done in such a way that all parties are involved in it and can be genuinely reformed in the direction that we will have more fathers in child care at home as well, and also in the direction that genuine freedom of choice can be exercised in the family. At the moment, we also have children under a year’s age being taken outside the home because the family’s financial situation is not possible to care for at home. It is a very different message from what is usually heard in the public debate, and freedom of choice is certainly not being achieved in this regard. All in all, however, what should be taken forward is precisely this opening up of part-time work, and here again these social partners are coming into a strong game in many respects, and this debate must also be held in the context of the family leave reform at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u107	Mr President! It is good to join in many of the speeches that have been made here to develop, among other things, this club activity. Club activities cannot be an alternative to early education or day care, but they may be supporting the family as an alternative in situations where it is good for the family and good for the child. The unfortunate fact is that even there, as far as customer charges are concerned, we are subject to customer charges, for which access to these services has not been optimal in all respects. As we remember, the government has also increased the fees for the morning and afternoon clubs to up to EUR 160, and I now know that there are localities and municipalities where consideration is being given precisely to rebalancing the municipalities' finances to the maximum. That way children will also be unequal in these afternoons, mornings clubs. Then, on this reform of family leave, I fully agree that we need a reform of family leave, a comprehensive reform of family leave, which also takes into account the possibility for fathers to participate in the growth and upbringing of their children in the family. There has now been such a positive atmosphere for this matter that fathers have taken that right for themselves. More fathers care for, care for their children in everyday life, and through it it has supported the interaction between the child and the father, and of course it will also have a long influence on the further development of the child, the interaction between the father and the child, and the participation of the father in the family’s common affairs, the upbringing of the child and the life of the child. But it also depends on what we want, according to THL studies, among other things has an impact on how we want to quota this right for fathers,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u108	Mr President! Finally, I would like to emphasise that Finland participates in early childhood education at the weakest in Europe. Only 75% of people over the age of 4 are involved, compared with almost 96% in Sweden, up to 100 in France. This is such a fact that it is good to impress on all of us. It is clear that high-quality early childhood education can effectively stop the cycle of underprivilegedness and improve the learning opportunities later on in the school path. It is quite clear that we need to increase that rate of participation, and the best way to do that is free part-time early childhood education, just as Mr Vehkaperä said successfully. Indeed, every other European country is already doing this. In my opinion, it may well be a club-like activity. This is done successfully in Vantaa, for example. This is not an important form, but the content of its early childhood education, and we now have a good situation in the sense that the foundations of early childhood education have just been accepted and it also helps to ensure that the quality of early childhood education can be more uniform across the country, unlike it has been so far. It is precisely this quality and content that must now be given the most important attention.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u109	Mr President! When we talk about this future family leave reform, it is always important to take into account the situation of each family. Of course, families should always have that freedom of choice. One must consider who is unemployed in the family and whether both spouses may be unemployed. Then one example is that in a family, for example, the mother of a child is unemployed and then the father is a sole entrepreneur. If he's gonna have to keep it for six months, then what's it gonna be? These are fine ideas, but when family leave is discussed, all these details must be taken into account. I remember that Minister Risikko, for example, intervened in this very role of self-employed men, which today is far more than women's entrepreneurship. Well, that's a good thing, but don't go out of the ditch and we'll have to go through these very thoroughly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u110	Mr President! While the representative is still present. Mr Kiljunen raised this father issue here, and I would like to support this view on how important it is really to involve fathers in the raising of children and the daily life of children, to participate in that family life. Yes, this is a crucial part of how society encourages fathers in the workplace and on the site to take that moment at that early stage and to participate and stay at home with the child. It may be that in some cases quotas are needed or there is also a need for this kind of legislative dimensioning in order to change its attitude, but this is one of the things that should be considered in this particular family-free discussion to think about what works best in Finland with regard to this change of attitude. And now we see how in Sweden, for example, it is perfectly normal for fathers to participate and play a much greater role than we do in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u111	Mr President! Then, if we talk about this caring for children at home and the parents are there, it certainly does not seem to me at this stage to be a matter of law, but it is a matter of attitude. We need to get the atmosphere so that fathers too stay home. But we must also hope that this does not slip in the direction that looks good on paper but does not work in practice. And then it won't work in practice if the family's money isn't enough. We must be able to make sure that the family gets along even when the father is caring for the child. Similarly, when it comes to early childhood education itself, the economic situation of any family should not prevent children from participating in early childhood education and especially in early childhood education. As far as early education is concerned, I now have the impression that it is not coercive, but it is, as it were, binding. The child must be mature when he goes to school. If the child is not there in early education, then that school maturity must be at home in some way, and it will be tested that the child then manages there in school. This must not be the kind of thing that depends on wealth, but every child, every one of them, must have the opportunity of free early education, just as has been said and spoken here. It must be in our minds, in our attitudes, not in our purse.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u112	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u113	Mr President! In the current law, a curator’s qualification is at least in accordance with the Act on Professional Qualifications in Social Care, i.e. a degree in social welfare and health care. The current eligibility rule has been criticised as being too narrow and, in practice, there have also been people with other training who have worked as curators. This proposal now proposes to amend the curator's eligibility criteria to include a person with an appropriate university degree, including or in addition to studies on the subject of social work. The capacity of the responsible curator would continue to be that of the social worker. It is a good thing that this has now come up. This came in fact last season when we were discussing the Student and Student Care Act — there were already duubies that might cause problems, but it is good that this is now before the committee. There are still minor ambiguities and issues to be clarified, but they will certainly come up in that committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u114	Mr President! To the same thing, I would like to say a few words or curators. I would have liked to have seen a more loose wording than what is now in this government proposal, that is to say, the formulation which was then in the opinion stage. I understand that the requirement for studies in the subject of social work has been to secure skilled staff for the job of a curator, but it is thought too narrowly. In other words, there is still a duty in the municipality to have a certain type of study for a leading curator, but I would think that if there were more than one curator in the municipality, then if this qualification had been slightly loosened, then there would be an opportunity to build very multidisciplinary skills in that curator team. So, as a good education, I would see, among other things, that community pedagogues who are trained with young people could be part of it. I really hope that in committee we will then be able to clarify that slightly more broadly so that the organiser of the teaching can then decide what kind of skills are needed in the curators' team.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u115	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, to which the Committee on Transport and Communications must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u116	Mr President! This amendment of the law deals with an important issue, namely the energy efficiency of buildings. Here in the Finnish climate, heating of homes and other buildings is a major energy consumer and thus also a source of climate emissions. In recent weeks, Parliament has been discussing climate change in the context of the Paris climate agreement, and I am very pleased that we are in agreement on the importance of halting climate change. However, it is now necessary to implement the agreement in different sectors. In the non-ETS sector, transport is subject to high emission reduction targets, as energy consumption in buildings and the potential for reducing emissions from agriculture are seen as low. However, I believe that there is room for more expectations and measures for both buildings and agriculture. In almost zero-energy construction, which is now being discussed, the core of the poodle is not only in the government proposal currently under discussion, but also in the regulation under preparation at the Ministry. They set out how zero energy is to be defined and how much emission reductions are to be expected. Unfortunately, these regulations have already been relaxed in the preparatory phase and I would like to see a more ambitious level of regulation considered in committee and in government. At the same time as new energy-efficient houses are being built, which is what this bill is aimed at, we must also ensure that energy-wise houses are built in a healthy and efficient way. The energy-efficient construction of lugs can lead to indoor air problems and inefficient building technology. However, problems can be avoided at the construction stage by investing in the quality of construction and in building supervision. In addition to new buildings, energy renovations of old houses are also important, which this bill does not deal with, as there are plenty of energy efficiency benefits and emission reductions available from the old building stock. Energy renovations of old houses should therefore be accelerated by various economic incentives and demands. Mr President! Climate change must be stopped now. That's our job. We can no longer pass it on to the next generation. The emission reduction potential of housing must also be used as fully and as fully as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u117	Mr President! After all, this is a matter of national implementation of the EU directive. In the same way as the previous speaker, it should be noted that the Government's proposal does not significantly improve energy efficiency in Finland. Instead, there is concern that the way in which this directive is implemented may mean that even a resident in a dwelling is required to manage techniques and technical skills that a normal family is unable to carry out. This same directive will be implemented in Sweden, for example, far more ambitious than in Finland. I also believe that in Finland the target must be set at a sufficiently high level. It is therefore somewhat surprising that a clarification of the annex to the Government Programme has been included in these explanatory memorandums of the Act, which means that, in terms of energy efficiency requirements, regulation under the Energy Efficiency Directive must take full advantage of the flexibility and potential for deviations allowed by the Directive. Of course, you will stay and ask what this means. I hope we do not go where the fence is lowest, just now that we have dealt with the Paris climate agreement in three different sessions. In this context, it was made clear, among other things, that we have great opportunities in housing; in energy efficiency, Finland also has great opportunities to create new jobs through it. There has also been talk of energy efficiency and indoor air problems moving as if one foot. According to VTT, however, this is not the case. Both energy-efficient and energy-efficient buildings can have moisture damage if the buildings are poorly constructed. So this too should be kept in mind. The objective of this directive is one of the indications that a low-energy house built in 1993-1994 is better in terms of energy efficiency than is the aim of this government proposal. Indeed, one could have imagined that the level of ambition would have been slightly higher. So the question is, of course, how to isolate houses, but also what kind of energy is used and how to use it. The Government's proposal should be better able to use decentralised self-sufficiency energy so that housing companies and real estate companies can also cooperate in the production and use of such decentralised renewable energy. We should really encourage the production and use of energy in residential areas as well. This would also lead to a plus-energy level at the housing level. When we talk about energy efficiency, it is a real shame that we currently have a proposal for a law in the House to abolish existing energy subsidies. This government proposal also assumes that this energy efficiency will also be improved through renovations. Ordinary residents in both blocks of flats and detached houses need a small carrot to introduce these energy-efficient solutions, and this should still be possible. Of course, it is a good thing that these energy subsidies are available for such larger projects, and I hope that will inspire us to really start thinking about how to solve energy efficiency in housing, how to integrate renewable energies as diversely as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u118	Now, Minister Tiilikainen will take the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u119	Mr President! The Energy Efficiency Directive for Buildings obliges the definition of nearly zero energy buildings and the establishment of minimum energy performance requirements for buildings and building parts. The implementation of this directive is in this Government proposal 220 and contains a whole of two articles: New Article 115a is that definition of almost zero-energy buildings, and as precisely as it is translated, that definition of the directive has now been taken from the word to the word, so as not to be guilty of overregulation at least and then to be rigorously implemented. Article 117g is amended: it considers that what is a new building and the new building consists of a covered and walled structure using energy to maintain the appropriate indoor climate conditions in the premises, and this type of building must be designed and constructed as an almost zero energy building. In other words, what is the zero-energy building and which buildings are the ones to which this definition should apply? The present draft law only concerns new buildings. This is a good thing to remember. So now we are not looking at the style of renovation of buildings in the name of energy efficiency, but we are talking about regulation of new buildings. At the same time, this objective of the Government Programme is being implemented, since this draft law reduces the powers to adopt a regulation, has been reduced, and the detail of the draft regulations contained in the opinion has also been dismantled. The new building is therefore a completely new building or an independent building to be built on the same site as an extension. If, for example, the building already on the property is expanded by building an attic, then it will not be a new building. Well, I guess this sounds pretty lucid, considering. Then, of course, there are always these specific cases that, well, what is not the case with this legislation, and it is good to go through it. So here are the exceptions from the categories of buildings to which these minimum energy efficiency requirements need not be applied, and now this exemption list is directly incorporated into the law in order to obtain understandable legislation. The exceptions are: Buildings of less than 50 square metres — a building of 49.5 square feet is not covered by the present law. A holiday home that is in use for less than four months a year does not apply to those acts. A stationary and temporary building with a maximum operating time of two years. The legislation does not apply to industrial and garage buildings. A farm building for non-residential use where the energy needs are low or used in a sector covered by sectoral energy efficiency agreements is excluded from the scope of this legislation. Similarly, buildings used for worship or religious activities are not subject to the energy efficiency requirements now laid down. And then the protection building, which is protected as part of a defined environment or because of its particular architectural or historical merit, to the extent that its nature would then change as a result of compliance with these minimum energy efficiency standards. Such exclusions are also made in this law. The law is intended to enter into force from the beginning of next year and will apply from 2018 onwards, and it is important that the construction sector retains that year's thawing period in order to know what the law contains and how it will start to be implemented from the beginning of 2018. Well, when I said that there are now only two paragraphs to be amended, then, of course, the details are in those regulations. And these technical requirements for almost zero-energy construction are given precisely in the regulations. And now there are three regulations relating to this legislation: the regulation on the coefficients of energy sources, it is a Government regulation. In addition, the Ministry of the Environment decree on the energy efficiency of a new building. And the Ministry of the Environment decree on the indoor climate and ventilation of the new building. There is a period of consultation for these draft regulations until 7 November. The draft regulations could be characterised by a rather moderate improvement in energy efficiency requirements for buildings, i.e. perhaps that almost zero is a short-term oversized name for this because it is a step in a more energy-efficient direction. It is good to remember that this is a minimum requirement, and in many places, as has already been said in the speeches of the representatives, we are already building more efficiently, and that is a good thing — that is what we can do. In other words, we must build much more energy-efficient than this minimum that is now set. Well, there has been some discussion about these moisture damage since then, and in fact these indoor air and moisture resistance of buildings have played an important part in this preparatory debate and in the work of experts, which has required this bill to be submitted. And, in fact, that energy-efficient construction and taking into account the requirements associated with it will make it possible to build better than before. And that is something to be pursued in view of the mold and moisture damage that is now being wrestled with. The aim is, of course, that these damage will not occur in the future. And it is not the fault of this legislation, which has not even been in force yet, that the damage to mould and moisture in previous buildings is not the fault of this legislation, but, above all, it is the professional pride of construction that is at stake in these matters of humidity and indoor air. None of the provisions of the kingdom can prevent errors, but professional pride can prevent errors in practical construction. As far as the building is concerned, it will continue to be possible to design a gravitational ventilation system, and I think that it will continue to be possible to build logs in different applications in the way shown by these draft regulations, both in small houses and in public buildings, I believe that this is the main feature of this bill and the content of the regulations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u120	Mr President! As the Minister has already said, there is an amendment to the Land Use and Building Act to include the definition of nearly zero energy construction. The energy efficiency required over the years has gradually been tightened. The latest changes tightened the requirements by around 30% in 2010 and by around 20% in 2012 from the previous level of regulation. The aim now is to improve the energy efficiency of buildings and to increase the use of energy from renewable sources in buildings. The aim of the Government proposal is to create the conditions for setting energy performance requirements for buildings at cost-effective levels. The Government's proposals include the definition of almost zero-energy buildings, the adoption of legislative bases and the revision of the power to adopt regulations. The proposal does not have any actual economic impact, but the economic impact depends essentially on the regulations adopted under the power of adoption of the Regulation. The proposed legislation has been identified as having indirect effects on building users. Since the proposed legislation does not change the current way in which energy efficiency is determined, but merely tightens the level of requirements to some extent for different types of building, the user impact of the proposed legislation is not estimated to be high compared to the current situation, especially as the proposed level of requirements can be achieved by existing technology. However, the differences in the use of new buildings in the 2010s compared to the older building stock may be very significant. Mr President! Almost zero energy building means a building with a very high energy efficiency as defined in Annex I to Directive 2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The nearly non-existent or very low amount of energy required shall be largely covered by energy from renewable sources, including energy from renewable sources produced on site or near the building. The heating insulation requirements for buildings, i.e. the U-values, will not tighten the 2008 values with this change. Pursuant to Article 117c of the Land Use and Buildings Act, which refers to health, among other things, those who undertake a construction project must ensure that the building is designed and constructed in such a way that it is healthy and safe, taking into account the indoor air, humidity, heating and lighting conditions of the building and water supply. The building must not endanger health and so on. Thus, responsibility has been transferred entirely to the building project, and correspondingly, the energy efficiency definitions of the building have been developed largely as a result of EU legislation. In my opinion, this is too strong a guide to construction in Finland, because new construction solutions to Finnish conditions would require long-term experience. Last week, at an open hearing in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, it became clear why the problems of mould and moisture are mainly caused. More than 95 % of home and moisture problems are caused by failure to maintain maintenance, faults in operation, pipe failures and causes of human living. Many times I have heard that the cause would be bad construction. I don't think so. By the time problems are discovered, the building is almost unrepairable. That is why my question is: Is it up to society to take responsibility for buildings that are dangerous to health and for human health? And is there still any correction to the legislation after that? I think it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u121	Mr President! Indeed, the government's proposal before us has already been criticised on many points in advance. I would like to start by pointing out that we in Finland now have to legislate on this energy efficiency law for buildings because of this EU directive, which obliges us to do so, and I believe that it has been quite reasonable to implement these requirements for Finland. Now, Mr President, this criticism, which has been made, has focused on what this will cause us to build and what problems this may cause in new buildings to be built later. As has already been heard in this previous speech and in the seminar on the excellent mold problems of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Social Affairs and Health last week, so many of the problems in buildings are due to poor housing and poor and wrong use of the building. This kind of intervention could prevent these problems and I do not believe that it is this zero-energy construction that is now actually leading to indoor air problems or other problems. We can build well or badly, whether we build close, energy-efficient houses or even build fewer houses, that's not what this is all about, but the quality of construction is the main thing. Mr President! I also think it is very important that the government has taken account here of log construction and that massive log construction would continue to be possible through this relief.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u122	Mr President! As Mr Sarkkinen and Mr Myller have already said, this issue is linked to climate change mitigation. Yesterday Parliament approved the ratification of the Paris Agreement, and the report of the Committee on the Environment referred, among other things, to the International Energy Agency's assessment that some one-third of the reductions in emissions that cause climate change should result from energy efficiency improvements. Energy efficiency is, according to a number of estimates I have seen, one issue in controlling climate change, and buildings are a very large whole. So, in itself, the objectives pursued by this are very important and worthy of support. One thing that has not yet been discussed in this debate and which I would like to highlight is the low level of renewable energy production. In Finland, we are used to thinking in energy matters that only the big ones are real; only the big energy production is significant. Many other countries have long since started encouraging small-scale renewable energy production, and this has then contributed, for example, to the fact that in more than 30 years the prices of solar panels have fallen to less than one hundredth of what they were sometimes over 30 years ago. Even in Finland, it is already the case that ordinary people and families get their own roof from solar panels at a lower price than online electricity, and it has also been calculated that investing in solar panels in Finland offers a better interest rate than sleeping the same money in a bank account. This government proposal also contains an incentive, and I think it is a good thing for this kind of energy, as stated in this government proposal, to be self-sufficient. However, I would like to see consistency in this matter from the government. After all, now that a solar panel is installed on its roof, it depends on which company buys electricity, whether the electricity supplied to the network goes beyond its own need, is at any reasonable price or not. I would like us to have national guidance on this issue, but as such I welcome the fact that, through the energy efficiency requirements of these buildings, we too now have such a clear incentive to produce small-scale solar energy in our building stock and that we will also be able to get on board in the energy renovation that is taking place in the world after we have been dragging on this issue for a very long time compared to many other countries. Some colleagues have also referred to these technical problems caused by the complexity of systems, including energy efficiency requirements. This is also a real problem. As a result of the public consultation on sick houses and sick people organised by the committee last week, together with the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and on the basis of many other data, I have also begun to suspect that we have shortcomings in the legislation on building responsibilities. Today, the Committee on the Environment visited Rakli, where it was also pointed out that the current legislation, which, as Mr Mölsä said, places the responsibility on the person undertaking the construction project, will then, in a way, give exemption to the person who actually makes the building error. It would be important to clarify such matters and clarify responsibility in our legislation, especially when systems are most likely to become more complex. In my opinion, we should not be afraid of various intelligent systems and automation coming into buildings. The expert hearing last week also highlighted the fact that various intelligent sensors and others, for example, can be used to monitor whether moisture is forming in the structures in places where it should not be formed, and in this way to tackle problems even before the building is ruined and people are sick. Finally, Mr President, I would like to emphasise once again that there is a need to take a clear position in Finland that the things we need to do to mitigate climate change, including improving the energy efficiency of buildings, are positive opportunities. They are not primarily an extra nuisance, a problem and a problem that the EU, for example, imposes on us, but they offer opportunities for developing Finnish expertise. Of course, when we live here in the north, we have more stringent requirements for buildings than in many other countries of the world, and this is, in a way, a natural condition for us to be forced, in a sense, to develop skills that then go further in many things than in the rest of the world. We should also take a view of this kind of knowledge and the development of new employment and export potential associated with it in this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u123	Let us now go along with the list, since there are only a few speakers here. So you can reserve the floor with the P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u124	Mr President! In Finland, the building boom seems to continue on the housing side, an increase of between 1% and 3% is expected for next year. I think it is important that the promotion of energy-efficient construction and housing continues. The directive is now giving it impetus, but it must also be done by national legislation. But, of course, we must not complicate or complicate or take the wrong course of construction. I myself am referring to the fact that international climate and emissions agreements oblige us to reduce greenhouse gases in transport and housing, and these must be taken quite seriously. New technology enables energy efficiency in construction, but also in housing and maintenance. Technical capabilities, as Mr Hassi said, can also be an export product, a source of innovation in Finland, which we know and can export abroad. I think it is important that attention be paid to heating methods in this area of energy efficiency. It is precisely this promotion of small-scale renewables that forms an integral part of this overall energy efficiency package. Housing heating methods, housing maintenance construction, the use of different natural resources and materials are an overall package for this energy efficiency. I also think it is important that the construction of housing, now in this case new, planning, monitoring and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u125	Mr President! The obligation to move towards almost zero-energy buildings in the construction of new buildings is based on a directive from the EU. The government's proposal will only result in minor changes to the Land Use and Building Act, as we can see, in just two articles. All the more so, the requirement creates the need to renew the building regulations that have been laid down in the Finnish Construction Order Collection. The government's proposal has little economic impact, but the final effects only depend very much on the future regulations that they will be. Furthermore, the government proposal has no major environmental impact, i.e. this government proposal, but it also depends very substantially on the future regulations when they are adopted. When regulations are made in the ministries, I think it is important that they become clear and easily interpreted. I believe that the construction potential of new buildings must be material and technologically neutral. It is also important to have material efficiency and not to make buildings too complex, in other words, in the future to build logs, wood construction must be possible and also in buildings with gravitational ventilation. I personally see that the challenge for the future is that the building technology of buildings will increase and will also become complex, whether the residents and the people there will then be able to use the building technology correctly in the future. As a result of this reform too, there is certainly a need for a great deal of increased training and skills, both for designers, builders and, of course, for users of buildings.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u126	Värderade Talman! When the first version of this bill was in the round last spring, I and many others were quite concerned. In early autumn, we read in the papers how Minister Sipilä enjoyed the log school in Pudasjärvi and talked about it as a model for the future. I myself wonder whether he understands that this zero energy package is likely to make the prospects for similar schools at least bad, they may even become impossible. Well, this proposal, however, partially eliminates these fears. This is clearly better than the original. This might even be okay. What happened to this first round? Here the E-reading is quite moderate, and the very large tightening-up of school and kindergarten buildings that were still involved has now largely been cancelled. And that is a good thing, because I think they would have made the construction of massive wooden schools virtually impossible, also led to much increased mold problems. There has been no change in the tree values here. That is a good thing, because although quality is an important issue, as has been pointed out in many of these speeches, according to Frame research and the studies of the Tampere University Department of Building Physics, the increased insulation thickness increases the risk. This is quite undisputed. Well, now I don't think we need to unduly increase the thicknesses, let's hope so. Another good thing is that gravity ventilation is clearly stated as possible. This paper makes it possible, but then we must remember that this is also governed by other regulations. The building order collection D2 at the moment requires the ventilation of things that in practice make it impossible. So now we just have to go through this in other regulations and make it clear to the building control authorities too, to create clear methods, clear methods of measuring to get this to the finish line. There are special reliefs for log construction, this is a good thing. In the interests of consistency, this should also be taken into other massive structures, because they are long-lived and, on the basis of empirical, non-theoretical information, also effective. According to the statistics of Helsingin Energia, for example, an apartment building built at the beginning of the last century is as energy efficient, i.e. consumes as much heating energy as was built at the beginning of this century. And they're practically these red brick-massive walls. This directive allows for flexibility. Unfortunately, however, they have not been fully included here. The Directive exempts buildings with a heating component of less than 50 square metres from these provisions. However, this package refers to the floor area for these. In practice, it makes it impossible for a type of building that is often used in ecological construction, i.e. there is a small heart to warm up and around it a semi-heated space that is then used according to weather conditions and seasons or is left unused. So it would be good to change this now that we're taking this forward. At the level of the regulations, this provides for energy factors. It has weakened the relative position of wood, dropped the coefficients of district heat and electricity but was not influenced by their relationship. The use of coefficients is a rather heavy way of steering, and they are very strong in defining the way we build for a long time, and therefore we should be careful with them because the way we produce energy changes, after 10 years, electricity is produced in a completely different way than today. According to these regulations, a house heated with coal-fired district heating may be 150 per cent less energy-efficient than a house heated with wind power, and that cannot be in line with our objectives. Or, in a situation where we are going to the capacity market, it is worth favouring geothermal heat pumps, when the instantaneous electricity consumption may be substantially higher than that of a house heated by electricity. Perhaps it is good to reflect on these matters. All in all, we should consider the way in which we measure these things. The graph study shows that the energy tightening measure has not led to the expected results. The total energy consumption of a day-care centre building built in the 50s is pretty much the same as that built in the 21st century. And this clearly shows that this model that we use is not appropriate. We should be able to assess not primary energy consumption but the overall carbon footprint, starting with the question of where to build, how to transport the goods to the construction site, where to transport it, what to build, how long-term structure and how recyclable it is. Of course, this is also important in a global context. It is known that the concrete and cement industry produces between 5% and 10% of our greenhouse gas emissions worldwide. All in all, we should be grateful that the feedback received from this has been very well taken into account, and it seems that, with small changes, this will allow for quite diverse and hopefully even healthy construction. But perhaps there will be a little input and an amendment in the work of the committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u127	Mr President! This government proposal is very broadly prepared and, as Mr Adlercreutz said, this has been changed along the way in a good direction. I fully agree with this. If I pick up excellent things from this, for example, this consideration of our own energy production is important. That is what Mr Hassik has already mentioned, and he also mentioned about this small renewable energy production that is not yet allowed in Finland, and this is in the Electricity Market Act of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, which significantly restricts the use of different forms of distribution of solar energy. I therefore hope, for my part, that this will also be reviewed in other cases. Now about this life-cycle thinking: This takes into account the impact of energy consumption during the life cycle of a building on the use of natural resources and these factors guide energy-efficient construction and sustainable use of natural resources. But Mr Adlercreutz there very much encouraged a broader life-cycle approach, and it would certainly be desirable, but certainly rather complicated. That's what I'm assuming. Again, these good features: This acceptance of log and solid wood construction and gravitational ventilation is an excellent thing, and wood construction in general and that it can be further promoted in accordance with the Government Programme. However, wood construction is healthy, beautiful, environmentally and climate-friendly and even domestic,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u128	You can reserve your speeches by pressing the P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u129	Mr President! I find it a little misleading if people are accused of not being able to live properly. Old-time front man houses tolerate many rough building errors when the structures are ventilating and damage repairing. If moisture and health damage arise from the fact that residents are unable to maintain and repair their complex housing machines, then legislation and standards should not force people into damaged structures? The Minister noted that the use of gravity ventilation for new buildings is not prevented, but this is not enough. The Minister will be aware that in many places the expertise of the authorities is not enough to understand or even approve plans for gravity, natural ventilation. Many new builders even claim that standards require mechanical ventilation and plastic vapour shutdowns. This is the general belief that bottle houses are mandatory. For this reason, the Finnish Cultural Fund has made a significant cultural and health work by designing traditional, healthy K3 houses whose plans can be downloaded free of charge by every builder online. If this is the case now, it is likely that the new legislation will lead to a generalisation of the mandatory bottle houses. This view must be vigorously corrected in the committee's report. What measures does the Minister intend to take to make the potential for new builders of gravity ventilation and ventilating structures a known and genuine alternative? And is there a need for the amendments to the regulations that Mr Adlercreutz has just referred to?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u130	Mr President! When Mr Hassi also raised this responsibility for the construction project: We remember when 1959 came into force the building law and regulation, it was converted into a land use and building law at the beginning of the 1990s, the law, the old law, was the responsibility of the supervisory authorities, the planning and the corresponding supervisor, and even the building board could be held responsible in some case, there have been such cases. But when this land use and construction law came into force in the early 1990s and all responsibility was transferred to the building project, I recall that the Green Minister's signatures were also found in the regulations as it was transferred to the building project. Today, the grynder will be allowed to build the terraced house almost again without any supervision. Only when more than half of the apartments have been sold — according to the Housing Trade Act — will buyers be able to set up their own supervisor. In other words, there is still a lot of work to be done on this matter of control. That is why I ask Mr Tiilikainen: is there any way in which this matter is under way to make this monitoring more effective? Even in municipal public administration buildings, it is up to the municipality what kind of overseer you set — money gets a good overseer, but if you compromise, you can have a bad overseer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u131	Mr President! It has become quite clear here that this law itself does not say much, but then the flesh on these bones comes from there from the settings. Even this law cannot tell whether environmental protection will improve or not. Of course, it is understandable that all the content comes from there through the regulation. Many here have spoken out in favour of promoting decentralized small-scale production and have welcomed the fact that it is being promoted through this legislation — it is in that legislation. But I would like to ask you, Minister: how will this regulation be built, and whether, for example, adjacent houses can produce together or housing companies can produce and use energy together? This is not possible under the current regulation. This would be a big step in the direction of actually promoting small-scale production from renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u132	Värderade Talman! Mr Kosonen also mentioned the same thing that I have just mentioned, namely the importance of this overall review. And now, in fact, we must congratulate the Minister for the Environment, who, according to my information, has hired Matti Kuittinen in the Ministry, who has specifically examined the measurement of this carbon footprint in buildings, and I hope that this work will now be carried forward with determination. I would therefore like to continue with Mr Haraka's reflection on how to promote defective buildings. After all, at the moment, the paradigms of our construction are based on the fact that very much depends on the one-tenth of a millimetre film and its integrity: if it breaks out, the whole house of cards will collapse. It is worth keeping in mind, and, in particular, thickening these insulations in a way increases the fault factors. Gravity ventilation: yes, it is possible here, but it also requires that the possibility be made clear and that the tools that are needed be provided, both to the designers and then to the construction control authorities, whose expertise varies greatly from the municipality to the municipality, and that there are clear instructions, clear procedures, clear requirements for those solutions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u133	Mr President! Representative Mölsä highlighted this role in building supervision. Yes, my view is that building supervision during construction in Finland today is too limited. I do not think it would otherwise be possible, for example, to have been so widespread for a long time that heat insulation on construction sites, for example, is left exposed to rain. In the public expert consultation last week organised by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Social Affairs, the representative of the construction industry stated that, in March of this year, when questions were asked about moisture management measures from construction companies, only 48 per cent, or just less than half, of this protection of the weather, and only 15 per cent, or about one in seven, were involved in renovation. For example, there is a need for more active building supervision in such matters, and I believe that this would also be a key element in the development of legislation, even though deregulation in the name of red tape is so popular and fashionable today. But I would also point out that when ever more complex systems come along, it is essential that someone has overall responsibility. For example, in my own house, where we made this kind of ground heat pump and solar heat collector system, so at first, when these came from different suppliers, they did not play together: the solar heat collector worked, but did not supply the heat to the house, and it would not have appeared if we were not a doctor of physics
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u134	Mr Harakka and Mr Viitanen, and then the Minister, have the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u135	Mr President! I will continue with Mr Adlercreutz's speech, perhaps in such a more philosophical dimension. There's a lot of talk about resilience in future studies. One translation may be the fault resistance used by representative Adlercreutz, which in such less technical systems means that defects are considered a natural and normal matter and not just an exception. In society, resilience is seen, in particular, as a state to be sought as a result of its current vulnerability, but it also applies to all individual social structures. It must therefore also be promoted in the construction sector, and this is an excellent opportunity for the committee and the minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u136	Mr President! This is an important, really large whole area, and, of course, attention has also been paid here to things that we are spoken about in this House today — mold problems, moisture damage problems and all this — and in the sense that the issues raised here today in the debate are not insignificant in any way. I believe and expect that, when this vast package comes before the committee now, the committee will certainly be very careful to weigh it up, to look for possible small repairs or large ones. I do not know exactly how to assess it, because it has not yet been possible to get to know this whole in such detail, but I believe that the committee will be working very carefully on this in itself. But, Mr President, I actually wanted to take this floor at this stage to ask the Minister a detail which we have come to this Chamber before in the debate. In time, it was decided that energy certificates, this system, will also be reformed, and later on this government will have switched it to go hand in hand with this work, and in the last period Parliament required, for example, that this compulsory energy certification system should be completely abandoned in the case of old small houses, to speak in the direction of the EU, in the direction that this opportunity should come to us, and in addition to the commitment made by Parliament and also by the government to reform and develop this energy certification system as a whole, and there has been a different kind of preparation here. I would like to ask the Minister how this issue is now being raised in this context. It would be good if, in your own speech, you could:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u137	Well, Mr Myller here before the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u138	Mr President! This conversation has been all right. Issues have been raised that are important for energy efficiency in construction. I would also like to stress that the objective must be that construction and housing should also contribute to the achievement of climate objectives. The fact that we now have a legislative proposal to implement the Energy Efficiency Directive for buildings in the European Union, but which will only then be implemented there in government regulations, will of course set out a number of questions, such as how Parliament can then be involved in the construction of the content of this legislation. Among other things, this House technology and what is required of the ordinary citizen to be able to cope with it in the house has now been quite forcefully highlighted here. This is certainly a very important matter to take into account, in addition to many others, when these regulations are adopted. Often, when there is a problem and it is a question of applying the EU directive, it is said that it is not us but that it is the EU directive. At least now I have been informed that these practical issues, such as how these regulations are to be built, what measures this energy efficiency will then be taken, do not depend on this EU directive, but are quite well in the hands of the Finnish Government and yours, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u139	Mr President! Thank you for your very constructive and expert approach to this legislation. Indeed, this law implements in practice the requirements of its directive at a minimum level, and then the regulations will be built separately. Many of you, representatives of Torniainen, Adlercreutz and many others, spoke about these regulations and the steak there. This is indeed the case, and when Parliament takes up this legislative work, I think it is very important for the committee to have access to those draft regulations and the opinions they have received. That is why the draft regulations have already been sent to opinions so that we know how this law is to be implemented. A few questions to answer. Myller wondered if environmental protection would improve, whether the climate would improve. Of course, this is the objective of improving energy efficiency with this legislation. Well, then on the matter of control, what Mr Mölsä asked about. There are no changes as such to the regulations relating to building supervision, but the way in which building supervision is carried out is quite good experience that if more municipalities have decided together to organise building supervision, then it may be possible to specialise in building supervision, perhaps it will be possible to make better use of that know-how. This is possible, of course, but regional reform can also enable municipalities, if they so wish, to carry out regional building supervision. This announcement. I don't think there's going to be any massive information campaigns. For example, when Mr Harakka wondered that if there are persons interested in gravity ventilation or solutions of this kind, I believe that those who are interested in it will probably also be able to search, so to speak, that it is possible and not immediately encounter false claims from elsewhere. The energy-form factors to which Adlercreutz referred. A very exhilarated example of this is that if there is district heat produced with coal and property-specific produced with renewable coal. Yes, I did, but the day that that district heat is transferred to renewables, it's the other way around. In other words, district heat is favoured for its energy efficiency, renewables are favoured for low emissions, and when these two are put together, we have the ideal solution. Here is also the answer to Mr Myller's question. This joint production of properties is possible because if more than one house together produces energy, it is defined as district heat. So district heat is not only the heat produced by today’s large district heating companies, but also such heat produced by, say, a block - of - block bioenergy plant. So this co-production will be possible. Mr Viitanen asked about these energy certification issues. They implement quite precisely what the EU directives require of us and will certainly come back to them at a later stage. I hope that I was able to respond to some of the concerns you raised. I am pleased that you have said that, with this consultation and the social debate, the law has been turned into a better form. It is, of course, always the government's aim to be able to respond to practical problems and concerns by means of legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u140	Mr President! Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You seem very confident that people’s own activity, perseverance, and perhaps even stubbornness will lead to the right result. But throughout Finland there is a very different message, such as that of architect Panu Kaila's popular writing and advice column, that genuinely public authorities tell people incorrect information about whether or not it is in accordance with the standards to build a gravitational ventilation system, and that is my question: is it necessary to take action in which, throughout all Finnish municipalities, public authorities would also provide correct information and genuine alternatives to so-called ordinary people, who, on the basis of their knowledge, have not already pre-established a position, but that they can genuinely reflect on different options and will probably also end up with a healthier alternative without a completely unreasonable effort?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u141	Mr President! I shall now return a little bit to my specific question on energy certificates. In the past, when we have asked the Minister about it, it has been referred to that reform goes hand in hand with this zero-energy construction. There are a number of points in connection with the energy certificate and, of course, the question now is that this has been quite a big thing for Parliament — this was a citizens' initiative, which was very important, and there it was. The Finnish Home Union was very active at the preparatory stage, it was made forward together with the Finnish Home Union — and Parliament actually required the government to undertake that Finland should make a commitment to exempt old detached houses from this energy certificate, which is therefore compulsory at the moment, and then Parliament also required that this energy certification structure be reformed in such a way that it is perceived to be fairer and clearer. When this has been required and there have been quite strong debates about this among the citizens, in the form of a citizens' initiative, here in Parliament, with the unanimous decisions taken by Parliament, then of course this individual issue is important in this context and in any case, and we must of course be informed of how it is going. I do remember here updating a little the opposite of what was known at the time of last autumn, which is, contrary to what was reported on the progress of this matter, a regulation came in which even the garages were placed on the energy certificate, and that is what we were very surprised about here, that this is the dismantling of the standards, when, Minister, it is not, however, that when the government speaks quite rightly about the burst of standards, then this energy certificate would be a good example of it. But the government acted the other way around and even put the garages under the energy tax. This question has been so prominently raised here, and that is why I asked the Minister and wanted to return to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u142	Mr President! In several speeches today, the role of building supervision has also been emphasised in the supervision of construction. The fact is, however, that we all know that the resources for municipal building supervision are limited and cannot be required from there. The Minister also pointed out that cooperation between municipalities in this building supervision should be stepped up. I myself would like to see the role of supervision of construction, not so much the role of supervision of construction, but the role of supervision of construction, as a prerequisite for good construction and a good outcome. Yes, good and high-quality construction and its end result consists of a great many elements. It is a joint effort and a joint achievement by all parties to achieve the good building, and then the good living in a good building is also the right and duty of the inhabitants. And that good construction, of course, involves a great deal of planning, and I think that more attention should be paid to planning and how planning enables different buildings and also their buildings to be located on the property, then good planning, that good construction and also construction, that the developers are up to date, and then that supervision of construction. But above all, when it comes to zero-energy buildings, I would say that it is also important to know where the building is to be built, where the material is to be built, and how the materials are to be placed in which building. It's important. But I myself will also continue to draw attention to the fact that building technology is still developing. I can compare it to the car. In the 1980s, we all knew how to fix our own car in some way, but now those cars are so technical that it will no longer help to tackle them, and hopefully
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u143	Mr President! I must say that on the basis of practical experience, Finland is quite a long way from this good construction. This is related, for example, to these moisture problems that arise in very recently built facilities, including public spaces and perhaps even public spaces in particular. It is amazing that this is the case. The Parliamentary Audit Committee chaired by Tuija Brax addressed these problems of moisture and mould in its in-depth work during the last parliamentary term. It resulted in a number of proposals for measures, of which quite a few have been implemented, such as those relating to moisture and mould. Now that this has been looked at afterwards, one can say that there has been a certain improvement, but certainly not enough, and this is a very acute problem for ordinary citizens, which is estimated to affect up to 200,000 pupils and young people and then the staff who are in educational institutions. So, a really massive-scale problem, and that is why I dare to hope that we will have to be high on the housing minister's list to make a correction. It does show that something new is needed. Then there is this way of reducing the rules: that is what we need to think about, the principle of sound regulation, the need for good regulation. There is also a need for regulation, but then we will come to this issue of energy certificates, which Parliament said in the last parliamentary term and took very clear positions on how this energy certificate works in old detached houses. This has been the default that: Finland would take advantage of the Commission's programme of unnecessary regulation and put this on the list. That is why I ask the Minister: what has been done with this matter of energy certification?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u144	Well, if you'll excuse me for a few more minutes from the speaker's room.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u145	Mr President! Mr Harakka, it is quite true that the building control authorities must provide correct information throughout the country. It is, of course, the starting point that incorrect information cannot be provided. The problem of moisture raised by Mr Heinäluoma is indeed a serious matter and was also seen as a very important point in the preparation of this energy efficiency legislation, namely to ensure that this legislation does not worsen the situation under any circumstances. In fact, we already have low-energy buildings that comply with the standards that are being imported, and these buildings have not shown any damage of this kind in the studies, which means that this legislation should not affect the situation in such a way that the situation is at least deteriorating. As far as this Energy Certificate Act is concerned, the clarification required by Parliament will be given. Then, as far as everything that energy certificate is concerned, we will have to implement EU legislation and extend that energy certificate within the limits required of us. Mr Viitanen sent some excellent letters to the Commissioner, and I am sure you also saw what came out of it: there was not much understanding there. But when you mentioned that garages are now separately covered by the energy certificate, I actually mentioned which buildings are required for the energy-efficient construction, and that size is quite the important thing, i.e. more than 50 square meters of buildings. If someone has a tendency to build a garage that corresponds to the two-way area of a normal Finnish person, or more, then maybe you can adjust the insulation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u146	I thank the Minister for his answer. However, as far as these moisture damage is concerned, I doubt that this issue of responsibility for construction should be reconsidered. Clearly, the builders have still not woken up to this, because so much of this news comes that the rain will build in such a way that the insulation is damp and simply because of the rush they will be pushed in. This is amazing, but also last winter this kind of practical message came from people who were watching how the construction of their homes is progressing. Well, then, to this promotion of regulation. I, too, looked at the Commission's response to this issue of energy certification, and it did occur to me that it was clear that, when this interim review is carried out, that is to say, how this directive has worked, there is an opportunity to come back to this. Then the second route is what I myself offered: here on the Commission's list of work on this unnecessary reduction in regulation, this should be taken up. And I feel that Finland should talk about this subject because it is clear that this self-construction and these energy certificates are in a very different position than they are in Central Europe, where most people live in blocks of flats and very little in detached houses, and while we still have a different attitude to these rules. Our starting point is that they are followed, and we know that in many other EU countries a dog does not bark after him if there is no such energy certificate. Then there has been a debate on the price of it, and I think it is a price when we talk about reading close to EUR 500, rather high, when we all have quite a heavy tax on this construction and housing. So that I do not see properly with this energy certificate for detached houses, for old houses it is of fluent importance, especially since it is theoretical in nature. Then it is a different matter that when it comes to new detached houses, where it can be done at the drawing stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u147	Mr President! After all, the answer from there was that this problem has now been recognised and this will be included in these lists, which now apply to this so-called REFIT project, and also what was known to Finland that in any case this energy efficiency directive will be evaluated by the beginning of 2017. And yes, at least then, we were in the position that, in this evaluation work, and preferably earlier in this process of dismantling standards, Finland would strongly send out a message in that direction, saying that we have the conditions that once and for all, the energy certificate of these old detached houses is perceived to be quite more of a nuisance and cause confusion without having any real positive impact on the better health of the climate, if you can say so. After all, history in this matter is that at the time when this directive was adopted, Finland's position was for a very long time that it should not apply specifically to these small houses. And Finland fought there. Before long, Finland then lost this battle, but now that this REFIT application came, of course, it was quite reasonable to think that if the EU thinks that unnecessary standards are being put in a garbage bin, then why not take this opportunity and return to the position we were originally in according to expert judgements, that is, that this energy certificate might well be voluntary for old self-help homes. I am concerned about what is happening now if we as Finland have no longer raised this issue – even from the point of view that this was a unanimous step in Parliament and a condition that this should be the case. This is exactly what is going on a long time ago when the directive is being evaluated. I appreciate if the Minister could give a little description of the kind of greetings we have given the EU in view of this work, what positions we have taken overall. And, yes, I'm a little surprised, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u148	Does the Minister still want to talk to you? — No more, the debate seems therefore to be over.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u149	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 12/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u150	Mr President! I think it will happen that I will also make this introduction to the report of the committee, but it must now be borne in mind that this is the SDP's contribution. In fact, we have objected to this motion for an increase in property tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u155	Mr President! It seems tonight that only the social democrats are interested in the cost of housing, and we are very interested in it. Real estate tax itself is a good means of taxation, and since Finland taxes ownership significantly less than the EU average but taxes work and enterprise more heavily, it is also fair. However, in its current form, real estate tax is seriously flawed. In addition, the property tax is very poorly suited to the budgetary objective alone, to increase the fiscal return. As Mr Viitanen recalled, this additional increase in property tax, on top of the two-year increases, appeared out of nowhere to compensate for the planned increase in early childhood education contributions. After all, the opposition unanimously opposed this, because the increase in the fees for day care would have further undermined the labour market position of women, above all. The government withdrew the increase and even prides itself on this achievement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u158	Mr President! I have already drawn attention to the fact that this structure of property taxation should be reconsidered. At the same time, when the use of real estate taxation has increased and its level has increased, the effects on income distribution are very significant. Now, a common dwelling in habitable housing, whether it is a detached house or an apartment building, is subject to a greater burden each year. Although there are advantages in the property tax, above all in the form that it is difficult to put the property under the tarp in such a way that it would not be noticed, there is still this question of how ordinary granary cottages, detached houses, front man houses are taxed, and this is of course a tax, which will then also be paid by tenants at rising housing costs and through it rising rents, so that we should look for a new solution in the real estate tax structure that would better take into account the need for this real living and, as Mr Viitanen said, would in a way favour of the necessary living of ordinary people and then take into account other properties, such as different ökyy buildings and commercial properties, and the like, which have better this ability to pay. It is a great disappointment that the government has not now prepared such a reform, but has assumed that such an emergency solution will bring this increase in the lower limits of property tax, which will be very strongly targeted at the capital region. This decision to raise the capital region seems to be, it must now be said, a slight punishment for the fact that the municipalities in the capital region were not prepared to go along with these uplifting kindergarten fees, so I would have liked to have had a minister and representatives of the government parties present,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u159	Mr President! I, too, have just looked around and made the observation that there is not a single representative of the government here today to provide some kind of justification as to why the government sees the need for the second time to increase the lower limit of the property tax. This is a big issue, as the previous speaker described, a very big one, a significant one, and it would therefore be desirable that, when the Parliament deals with these, the Minister should also be here, and if, for some reason, the Minister is not here, then at least the representatives of the government parties should be here to hold this debate. President! As has been said here, there are many problems here. This affects housing costs, and the property tax is unfair and is wrong, it should be more targeted on the basis of its ability to pay. Not only is it unfair, but the problem is that, at this point in time, this proposal for an increase is as poor as possible, as bad as possible. It is true that, in any case, the Ministry of Finance is preparing for this, although we would have to speed up this preparation, it should now be brought forward quickly by the Minister, and these structures are not in order now, and then we will increase the property tax so that it will exacerbate these problems, rather than solving them by restructuring the property tax as a whole. President! In that presentation I just missed out on this increased property tax on unconstructed land. It is, therefore, a wise idea in terms of housing policy, but in this form proposed by the government there are problems that, for example, the compulsory increase here will be directed towards: even rural areas, some municipalities in the capital region,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u160	Mr President! Indeed, I draw attention to the fact that the National Coalition Party, the Centre Party and the people of Finland in Helsinki and The representatives of Uusimaa are not here to tell the public why they particularly want to harm the living conditions of their own constituencies. Are they afraid to justify their decision to their own voters? While the Government's proposal would undermine housing policy in growth centres, it includes mandatory measures to increase housing construction. As Mr Viitanen said, the additional taxation of non-constructed construction land is a well-founded incentive in terms of housing policy, but it is now not being targeted fairly or even appropriately. Obsessing is limited, for unwarranted reasons, to the capital region and even to rural spending limits. Yes, logic requires that the increase should be directed to all growth centres in the country where housing production does not correspond to population forecasts. The increase must be directed only to communities and construction companies, not to natural persons. The additional increase in the property tax further highlights the shortcomings of the current tax base and valuation levels and distorts taxation. The Ministry of Finance is preparing an overall reform of property taxation, which should be expected before a purely fiscal and unfair increase is introduced.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u161	Mr President! I must say that I too must wonder about this small percentage presence here. Then I come to the observation that it is also strange that no one wants to present this report by the Committee on Finance. In general, in my experience, these presentations are being fought, and the representatives who are responsible for them are going to make sure that they get to the top of the presentation, but no one is showing up. I assume that this would have been one of the issues raised by the chairman of the tax section of the Committee on Finance, that there would be at least one interlocutor here who could also be asked questions in a large Chamber that would certainly be of particular interest to the people of the capital region. Well, it may be that a representative Lintilä is now preparing for tomorrow's big news, so that she has a good reason to be away from here, but then it would have been reasonable for her to have obtained a substitute from whom to hear these arguments, why this kind of proposal has passed the Finance Committee in general so tight a sieve. Is it possible to change the motion? After all, it has proved that the Committee on Budgets has the ability to listen to both the voice of the Members of Parliament, the voice of the opposition here, and also the voice of the citizens. When the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Kalli, has today decided to cancel this cut in the pensions of veterans, I think it is a good and only decision. After all, for about four weeks there has been a regular debate here about whether this proposal is right or not, and now that the representatives of the government party have come to the conclusion that the demarcation of pension cuts by veterans is intolerable and is being corrected, that is, of course, the right decision. Today I met a veteran of war who attended a meeting of the League of the Soviets, who was very pleased that this decision was withdrawn, In other words, even with regard to property tax, there should be the ability to reconsider, but now we do not hear why, because no representative of the government party has considered it appropriate to defend this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u162	Mr President! The good thing about this, of course, was that the opposition now had room for a presentation of its own option, but seriously speaking, so I would insist that a functioning parliamentaryism should include a dialogue between the government and the opposition, and that is why I too would have liked to have hoped that if the Minister was not present on such an important matter, then at least by the government parties the presentation and debate would be held here in the Chamber of Parliament. By the way, the next option for the government parties is to influence this issue in the vote, which will then be at second reading next Tuesday. Is it then the vote on Wednesday and the debate on Tuesday, that is, the invitation is that we hope that the debate will continue in a wider range then. But, President-in-Office, this is the unfortunate thing in our series of very unequal fiscal policies, the choice of values. We have heard the government's proposals here that we can afford to count quite generously.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u163	Mr President! Perhaps this absence of the government parties can make such a positive interpretation that, as Mr Heinäluoma said when this flexibility has been expressed in the Committee on Budgets, perhaps they are now wondering how this weak and ill-founded draft law could be corrected in a fairer direction. This flexibility has also been quite remarkable in that even the government has already been prepared to amend its proposals to the Committee on Finance and its tax section at a time when weeks have passed. This is, therefore, about the amendment of the inheritance tax and gift tax law, which will surprise us with the new version in the week that began.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u166	Mr President! This proposal really does give rise to talk about this whole government tax line, that is, what taxes are being calculated, what taxes are being raised and how they are allocated to different groups of people. It cannot be ignored that these increases in real estate tax are in line with the government when they come and are particularly targeted at the capital region. Then, at the same time as EUR 100 million are raised here, tax cuts of the same size or size are made, for example, this inheritance tax reduction, which benefits these millions of beneficiaries. It is difficult to see that this proposal for a reduction in inheritance tax, which is also being discussed here, has any effect on employment. The income-sharing effect, yes, but it is unlikely that the reduction in inheritance tax will be the first job. The same goes for this pharmacy deduction, which has shown that the biggest beneficiaries are the pharmacists, and at best these reductions are tens of thousands of euros, EUR 25000, and even on the average they talk about a reduction of between EUR 5000 and EUR 6000, which is really large, for which these tax increases are made elsewhere, which are paid by ordinary citizens. The question now remains whether this is the issue that the government should make, this tax policy, its own income-sharing impact assessments, who will benefit from these reductions decided by the government and who will be paying when certain other taxes, such as the property tax that is now on the table, are raised. This would be a lesson in how such performances are carried forward so quickly without these income-sharing effects.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u167	President! Let's hear it. I strongly support the idea that the government should provide Parliament with a clear calculation of the impact of tax policy, tax policy decisions, this autumn and the entire government period on income distribution. It is true, President-in-Office, that when you say to the ordinary people at the same time that you have to compromise and cut unemployment security or people's money they want agreements to lower wages, and this is how they say to the whole nation that it is a compromise, it is not very fair that at the same time hundreds of millions of euros should be found for tax solutions such as those that favour high incomes. And worst of all, Mr President, it is precisely what Mr Heinäluoma said there that, according to the evaluation of legislation, these new 'innovative' tax solutions of the government do not in practice have an impact on employment. And when money is put into tax cuts that do not have an impact on employment, the gloomy circle of the economy continues. And then we are in a situation where we have warned so many times that it will be said next spring that there will be no money, there will be no economic growth, the EU will ask a few questions, and then there will be further cuts, and this will be a disastrous path. And that is why we have put forward such an alternative tax policy as more employment-intensive measures. But, President-in-Office, it is certainly the case that, when tax solutions are distributed, if tax reductions are introduced — for example, social democrats would give them more to wage earners on low and medium incomes, to pensioners, to the unemployed — there must be a job-creating effect, and that is why it is absurd that all these government decisions do not promote employment. But, President-in-Office, I will go back to what I said: I think this was a great idea and I would like to see the government parties — just because this idea has been presented here — come and see.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u168	Mr President! I too warmly support the idea put forward by the representatives of Heinäluoma and Viitane, and I would even extend it to the fact that, in addition to examining the effects of different tax solutions on the distribution of income, we should at all be able to demonstrate whether there is a tax line. Is there a tax idea? Is there any use for taxation? What kind of tool does the government consider to be, if any, for social development, especially in this economic situation? Or is it just this kind of tax-flipper game where you go from one group of interests to another? When someone comes up with a request, a tax reduction is given, or when it is found that the bottom of the cashier is empty, let’s see what tax it would be. The fact is that the government is completely reluctant to extend the tax base in such directions as those with the ability to pay taxes, for example in the undertaxed financial sector. The only thing that can be seen, perhaps not now the line, but some kind of trend, is that we want, on terms, to reduce tax revenues that could be used to finance public services. And when the funding of public services is constantly falling apart, we will find ourselves in a situation where the private option is always more competitive than the public option, and the privatisation of the welfare state is on the line. If this is a stated objective, then it would be good to hear that we do not need to be here to guess between ourselves what the government's taxing will do if anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u169	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to one more important aspect of this property tax decision. After all, the previous government decided that real estate tax revenues would remain in the municipality as a whole, and then at least we know who would benefit from this property tax, that is to say, the municipality will receive more money. But now there is another arrangement, the name of which is that part of this property tax revenue goes to tax compensation. It has not been dealt with here in its entirety, and I understand why it is so quiet here, that there is no desire to talk about this either, that now that these municipalities in the capital region are being forced to increase their property tax, this money will not remain, ladies and gentlemen, for the benefit of these municipalities as a whole or for the benefit of the people from whom these taxes are collected, but will then be transferred to the real estate tax equalisation system and then to the country. It is also an interesting situation that, when this was linked to the fees for day-care care, this is the same thing as transferring the fees for day-care care to an equalisation system, that when one municipality collects the fees for day-care care in one municipality, they are made a national equalisation, and hence also those municipalities where there are no or there are no day-care children or there are fewer of them, as if they benefit from this imaginary result that has come. This question is completely unexplored in this work and it deserves to be said now that, unfortunately, this money, which is now being collected here, will not be for the benefit of these municipalities as a whole, but will be mobilised through the equalisation system. So there are a lot of questions of fundamental importance here that would have advocated a comprehensive reform of the property tax, seeking direction on how to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u170	Mr President! That is precisely the case, and that is precisely the policy that, on the one hand, we must wait a year and a half for measures to be taken, such as measures to create jobs, the total reform of the property tax must be expected and, on the other hand, many decisions will be made in haste and without thinking about the whole. This is a typical issue: it is decided to replace a previous unfair decision taken by the government with the next unfair and unsuccessful solution in a very, very bad situation. It is not appropriate at this time at all to make this withdrawal when it is precisely that overall reform that should be carried out. But, President-in-Office, if you say something positive at this end, let us say that today was a happy day, as has been said here, in the sense that the Committee on Finance of the Government Party decided to cancel the indexation of this veteran's front supplement, which was very important to us socialists, and that is what we are delighted about. Let us now assume that, once again here in Parliament, the government parties would consider cancelling this increase in property tax so that next week, when we go to the second reading of the law, we will vote in favour of the wreckage of this law. But first of all, of course, I would have liked to have had a debate on this issue today. It is a question of people's housing costs, homes, families' livelihoods, tax policy and large entities, which has proved problematic in many ways in this debate, and that is why we need a debate. But, Speaker, on this basis, and...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u173	Mr President! For a moment I thought that our speech has not gone to deaf ears, but that we would be given more light when Mr Satonen, Vice-President of the United States, came into the Chamber. But I can see that he immediately considered it a matter of going away, and I don't know if this is his job now. Last Thursday, in Question Time, I was trying to tell you that canceling this war veteran pension surgery could have been the best birthday present.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u176	The 13th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, StVM 20/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u177	Mr President! Unemployment benefit is a very important form of livelihood in circumstances where wages have gone out of hand. It is a rather important form of livelihood not only for a person but also for his family when this kind of big crisis of job loss has occurred. And now that this unemployment benefit has been put on the government's cut list and has been cut in various ways, both by reducing the duration from 500 to 400 days and by other means, there has been cause for concern about how much of this burden of recession we are putting on those who have already suffered, namely those who have lost their jobs and whose livelihoods have already been about halved from what it has been in the past. This aspect of this government proposal has not received sufficient attention, which is why I am, in a sense, disappointed by this line of action taken by the government. In other words, unemployment benefit is the subject of constant rumblings like this. It seems to be constantly on the savings list and new ideas and ideas are being invented. It is known that the government is preparing this new proposal for ownership, which assumes that every three months unemployment benefit could be reduced. On the basis that if you have not found temporary work for 18 hours, then can this discount be made, or under the circumstances, [The First Vice-President, Mr Pekkarinen : I would like to. (Speaker moved to speaking rooster)
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u180	Mr President! This is an absolutely fundamental question. Indeed, many times on this journey it has come to mind that many times these employment measures are promised, and after a year it is said that this employment is now the number one issue, and the government has said so much in the summer that it was, of course, a great disappointment when it seemed that the only 'employment measure' in the government was indeed to move the matter forward to further preparation and there too, with the aim of reducing unemployment security, weakening the position of the wage-earner. And here Mr Heinäluoma quite rightly said that many people have wondered what this kind of weakening has to do with improving employment when it comes to the need for concrete, genuine employment measures that will have an immediate effect, rather than blindly believing only in price competitiveness and sometimes improving the situation with some kind of kiky agreement. In the short term, however, it even has negative effects, and in the longer term it has different effects. But, President, this whole thing is worrying. And just as has just been said here, this whole is worrying because if the economy does not start to grow, if there are no more jobs for people, then we are really in the middle of spring when further cuts are being proposed to Parliament. This was quite a good point in Mr Heinäluoto's statement that, of course, these will be postponed until after the municipal elections on the spending limits, which still means postponements. And I'd say I'm wrong this time. I would be wrong, Mr President, but I really hope that if I were right, the government would now turn and change its course, catch up on this employment and change its line more fairly than in the previous paragraph, when we talked about taxation, we discussed it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u181	Mr President! As we all know here, the whole political news has been dominated for several months by this competitiveness pact, the twist between the social partners, the different stages of it, including the stage when, when negotiations were suspended, there was a threat of almost weekly changes in forced laws and their constitutionality was considered. There were hardly any groups of people in Finland who would not have experienced anxiety and uncertainty about their future, when this downgrading of price competitiveness and labour prices, in Finnish to put it down, was the sole aim of the government. It is, of course, a little strange that, at this very point in the competitiveness pact, when this change in the distribution of unemployment insurance contributions is being discussed here in Parliament, for the same government parties and ministers to whom this was the most important issue in the world for which they were prepared to fight, which they spoke about in the news on television from morning to night, it is no longer worth discussing and explaining how glorious this change will bring about. Of course, it is equally surprising that the left-wing opposition party, which, however, has objected to this committee's report, is not here to express the point of view. But, obviously, as the Social Democrats were the only ones who were interested in the price of housing, we are now probably the only ones in this Parliament who are interested in employment and unemployment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u182	Mr President! This unemployment insurance contribution and its funding played an important role in preparing for economic and monetary union in the late 1990s. The idea then went so far as to create buffers in case of weak economic conditions, and that was precisely the kind of crisis that hit Finland particularly hard but not necessarily the rest of the euro area. At the time, it was decided to create these buffers in the unemployment insurance fund and also in the employment pension funds. That thought was right at the time, and it has been important, and here on the unemployment insurance side, this funding has been able to avoid the wrong phenomenon in which unemployment insurance contributions have to be increased in circumstances where unemployment is rising and then unemployment insurance contributions increase, thereby increasing the cost of work for the employer, which in turn leads to more people having to be put on the unemployment card because of the problems of profitability, when the contributions increase again. In order to avoid this negative spiral, this idea of buffering was quite right and has been used in unemployment security. Well, now we are transferring funding to employees from employers, but in connection with this solution we have missed out on this whole buffering concept. There is also a need to discuss whether — considering that the crisis we have seen may not be a unique one, it may recur — here we are thinking of a larger buffer on the side of unemployment insurance, that is, in good times, we should be prepared to raise more funds in the buffer, so that, in bad times, this upward pressure on payments can be offset. In a few moments I will return to this matter of occupational pension contributions because it is linked to this unemployment insurance contribution.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u183	Mr President! This EMU buffer issue is also very topical, and that is where Mr Heinäluoma went through the history. All in all, we Social Democrats have suggested that it is precisely in this situation that the EMU buffers should be introduced. I could quote, Mr President, a well-known financial expert, from the central consul of Mauri Pekkar, who said that if ever it is time. I agree that, if ever, now is the time to introduce the Emu buffers. We have agreed on this. Of course, it has to do with the fact that there is a period of economic policy that was thought at the time to be, for which the Emu buffers are needed at all, a bridge over a gloomy stream. That is why, for example, the Social Democrats in their own alternative budget have proposed the introduction of these EMU buffers as a whole. I believe that the government, if ever, would be in favour of discussing the measures that will improve employment here and now, will take up this proposal, because it would, as it were, be able to provide for this kind of revitalising economy and, as it were, jobs to be created. In other words, Mr President, I am sure we will be returning to this issue in the near future on many occasions, but I would like to point out that, when I pointed out in the previous paragraph that there was an increase in property tax at a bad time, it might be said that now would be a good time for this decision to be taken on the temporary introduction of the Emu buffers and certainly on the more comprehensive, far-reaching idea that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u184	Mr President! From time to time, there is a debate in this Chamber about the power of the social partners, and there is also a debate about what Parliament should decide, and I must say that now that we are dealing with this essential issue, which is in the hands of Parliament, that is, the amount of insurance premiums, it is remarkable that there are no representatives of the people in this Chamber who otherwise talk about the power of the social partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u190	Mr President! At this point I thought that I would no longer take the floor, but yes, as a long-term Member of Parliament, I must now perhaps say that this was a good point. Now that we have the opportunity to discuss and now that Parliament is having this debate, we would have liked it to have been precisely those representatives who, in fact, here the most, have believed that there is too much power and so forth in the labour market, who would be in this Chamber and who would have had a debate when there was a chance. That is why I was actually hoping that, if I were to ask for the floor again, would it be that if a member of the government party were to listen to this debate in his office, for example, he might have been kind enough to come here and have had the opportunity to debat. But if this is the case, then it is. However, as Mrs Harakka has said here, there is at least evidence here that these unemployment security issues and others are of great interest to us Social Democrats, and, for example, in our own alternative budget, we will be proposing not only the introduction of EMU buffers but also a number of other measures which would, for example, avoid cuts in unemployment security and various proposals undermining the position of employees.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u191	Mr President! I cannot help but draw attention to the fact that comments on the government's ranks on this subject have, in fact, only come from Vice-President Pekkarinen. And it is a good thing that someone wakes up to this EMU buffer issue, how to use the Emu buffers, but it would be great now that, when the President is tied up with the demands of his high office and does not have a wider opportunity to present his views here, there would be colleagues who would take this ball a little further, unless it is the case that this debate on the requirements of economic and monetary union and the requirements of our economic situation does not seem to be of interest to us if we were to think about something other than this concept of cutting unemployment security, which has been quite enough for us. So it's a place for a bigger conversation, too, but it's not easy to talk to yourself. It would be much easier if those who perhaps have a few different ideas were on the spot. But better now, then, that will be understood by those who are here at the moment. In other words, we have a buffer system that is too small for both unemployment benefit and occupational pensions. It would be justified if Parliament were to exert pressure to strengthen this buffer, and then, on the other hand, in this situation, where we are faced with a very difficult problem of unemployment, the buffer for occupational pensions could be used and we could assume that, when the economy's wheels are spinning and in a better situation, this deficit will be bridged and the buffer raised. In fact, this is a Scriptural principle: unless I am mistaken, the Bible already had the starting point in Joseph’s time for seven fat and seven lean years and in fat years it would be worth putting a little seed aside so that it would be lean years to use. It is a principle that is thousands of years old and it is also appropriate to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u192	The 17th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 22/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-26-ps-107.u193	Mr President! In this context, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we had before us Mr Kaikonen's initiative on the recovery of these electricity charges and their possible periodicity, and the question of the price of electricity was also raised. It would have been desirable for representatives of the government parties in the Committee on Economic Affairs to be present here, who could have shed some light on this issue and what is happening to this initiative by Mr Kaikkonen.
