ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u1	The 11th item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SiVM 8/2016 vp.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u2	Mr President! Of course, the significance of the Library of Parliament is very important in promoting the functioning of Parliament and, above all, democracy. The library is based on the Act on the Library of Parliament. According to the law, the library's task is to serve the Parliament in the same way as its field of activity and to act as the central archive of the Parliament. The library also acts as a central library for the provision of public legal information, social information and parliamentary information. In its report, the Committee on Education and Culture states that the library, with all its information services, is essential for the functioning of Parliament, but the library also plays an important role in the whole of the Finnish libraries. The mission of the library is to increase the activity of citizens. In its report, the committee stresses that through its work the Library of Parliament brings information on parliamentary work and legislation closer to the citizens and in this way supports the implementation of de-mok-ratia. The Committee considers it important for the library to continue and develop cooperation with other libraries in order to ensure the effectiveness of its activities and the achievement of its customers. During the reporting year 2015, the library has implemented two important development decisions related to the activities and organisation: the opening hours have been reduced by 9.5 weekly hours from weekdays. The change has been made by decision of the Board of Directors of the Library and has been based on long-term monitoring of the number of visitors and thorough consideration of the impact of the change. However, the opening hours of Saturday have remained unchanged, which will ensure that people, especially those in work and those living outside the capital region, have access to the library’s unique materials and services. Another significant change has been the transfer of parliamentary administrative registry functions to the archive. As a result of this organisational reform, the processes of document management and archiving in the Parliamentary Office are closer together, which will be useful in moving to electronic processing. In conclusion, the year 2015 was a successful year for the library in many respects. The number of new customers and active customers in the library, as well as loans and picture loans increased. Similarly, the number of visitors to the library's website and the number of assignments made by educational participants and the library's information service increased compared to the previous year. In its report, the committee therefore considers that the library has been well managed in 2015.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u3	Madam President! Thank you, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Tuomo Puumala and the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy for the report you have presented on the 2015 Parliamentary Library report. As Mr Puumala said, the report ends with a very commendable conclusion: 'The committee estimates that the library has been well managed in 2015.' In this context, I would like to raise a few points which have become visible in the media this year. Why do we have the Library of Parliament? Its value base and functioning strengthen democracy, freedom of speech, access to reliable information, free press and constructive civil dialogue and engagement. Finnish mainstream media and their editors took a very prominent stand for reliable media in March this year. In their comments, the editors pay particular attention to the rapid change in the Finnish way of discussion: "Excellently in social media, insulting, defamation, slander and outright lying have become commonplace. Versatile communication and freedom of speech allow for differing opinions. It does not mean that anyone can spread anything without interference." So I saw the editors. The Library of Parliament and the Board of Directors of the Library support the world of values, the idea that editors raised in March. Versatile communication, journalism based on correct information and responsible use of freedom of expression are the things the library represents — and those represented by Finnish media. In a changing media environment, attention should be paid to the importance of libraries as mediators of reliable information, trainers of media competence and centres of civic activity. Parliament's library is a very exceptional institution on a global scale when we look at parliaments. It does valuable work in the field of legal information, social information and parliamentary information. Next year will be the centenary of Finland’s independence, and it will also contribute to setting expectations and requirements for the library and the library’s government and employees, which will be met with the resources, staff and skills available. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u4	Madam President! Thank you, Mr Kiuru, the chairman of the Parliamentary Library. I myself was able to have my first parliamentary term on the board of the library, and it was an interesting place. Libraries are certainly familiar to all Finns and have a special role to play, and it is important that they can be secured as local services in the future. But the Library of Parliament also has special tasks. In fact, this year the Library of Parliament received 400. After an interview with a veteran MP, when the 36-year MP Esko-Juhani Tennila of the Left Alliance was interviewed. The interview was long and thorough. In fact, there are currently 62,000 pages and more than 2,400 hours of interviews. This means that more than a quarter of the 1402 MPs who have been elected since the war have now been interviewed, and it is great that this has been done. Every year these interviews have been conducted between 12 and 15. One of my concerns has been that — and I hope that Mrs Kanerva will continue to do so here — this system works in such a way as to ensure that interviews are carried out only with the deputies who have left here. When Mrs Salolainen was away for a while, she was interviewed, but Mrs Kanerva — when the people wanted to, she has been here for 41 years now — has not been interviewed. I have pointed this out that the Library of Parliament could also interview such concordances: Ilkka Kanerva 41 years as a Member of Parliament, Ben Zyskowicz 37 years, Sirkka-Liisa Anttila, a very long parliamentary term. The Vice-President has also made a long career as a Member of Parliament. I would now like to ask the chairman of the library, Mr Kiuru: since Mr Pekkarinen, Mr Kanerva, Mr Zyskowicz, Mr Anttila
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u5	Madam President! As it came up in the previous debate, when we had a referral debate, it was a good idea. I think it's worth it. In this context, when we talk about the library in general, I would like to reiterate once again that the library is the crown jewel of our culture and it is very important that we have a comprehensive library network all over Finland. Finns love their own libraries, they are very close to our hearts. But there's one thing to worry about. And that worry is now that I remember when this government started these standard-breaking projects and it announced that an idea here would be to legislate in a style, that some laws in municipalities would not have to be followed, that there would be a law, that there would be no need to comply with the library law, or that there would be no need to comply with the law of free culture or youth or cultural actors, which, of course, gave the fear of whether this now means giving a signal, as if with permission, to the municipality, to save from libraries or lower levels or other things. I want this concern to be expressed. We are on the way, as has been said, to the centenary of independence, and that of course includes taking good care of libraries. In the SDP's alternative budget, we also propose, in addition to many other good things, correction money for libraries, for example. I believe that this would also be a sensible investment by the State at this stage. In the same way, I would like to thank the whole of Parliament, this government and the partners of the last period for having finally brought this issue of lending compensation to a decent level. It is a valuable thing, it is very important, and it has been a claim from Parliament for years. Last season we managed to double the level of $4 million to 8 million, and now we're going to finish it. The parliamentary working group did this last period:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u6	Madam President! Timo Heinonen expressed views and some questions about these interviews with veteran MPs. As I recall, 12 interviews are scheduled for next year. They are very time-consuming, thorough and, of course, costly, and the goal of all being interviewed is hard. When it was a matter of concern whether the Members of Parliament, who have made a significant and long parliamentary career and continue to do so, would be interviewed, I cannot promise it, but I can promise you that it will be possible to deal with it next week on the board of the library. However, the Board of Directors of the Library has welcomed the fact that the previous Secretary-General, Seppo Tiitinen, for example, is being interviewed because he has played such an important role, in the vantage point, and that is how valuable information can be recovered.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u7	Mr President! In fact, I just wanted to continue with that speech when I noticed that there is also Minister Grahn-Laasonen in the Chamber, and I was wondering whether it would have been possible for us to have heard now about this idea of dismantling standards that what the government is actually after. And I find it a little regrettable that there are so few representatives here to discuss such an important issue, and I would like to see an in-depth debate here in Parliament at some point on what these deregulations mean in this sense, for example. It has not become very clear that what is at stake here, and so, of course, this would be a good opportunity to hear the answers now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u8	There is no request to speak, but apparently Minister Grahn-Laasonen wants to use one now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u9	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Very happy news here on the issue of quote payments, so the quote payments for authors are finally raised to the Nordic level. Thank you to all those who have worked for this, and the government decided to do this despite the difficult economic situation, and it is of course a big cultural act and a signal in that direction too, except that it will also provide concrete help and promote Finnish literature and the ability of writers to do their valuable work. Similarly, there has now been a new library law in preparation. It has been in the consultation, and it is very advanced and coming to Parliament, and it is also a very fine law, a strong law that will further strengthen the Finnish Library Institute. And it will continue to be that the duties of each municipality include the maintenance of libraries and library activities, the whole educational task it covers. And libraries are brought into a new era by this way, promoting digitalisation and trying to secure the resources of library activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u10	Mr President! In the midst of all the darkness, this is good news. Does this also mean that, at the same time, this bill, to which Mr Viitanen referred, can actually be dropped and that this new law on libraries would not have to be complied with by the municipalities? If that is the case, it is excellent news, and I would like to thank you in advance for having reviewed the position here by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u11	Madam President! It has indeed been necessary and it is good that this new library law has been prepared, and it is necessary and important. And, of course, these principles, that it retains that free library and all of these, are a good thing, and I think that is what will happen here. But the question now is that, if we make a fine new library law, is it now going to be as usual as it was when the government programme was signed up — that it will not then be announced to the municipalities that now that you have little chance of saving money and standards being dismantled, then there will be no need to comply with certain laws. So now is the news good that OK, the government will not do this, but the library law should be followed, or is there now going to be such an operation then that the municipalities will be informed that we will do the law but will not have to follow it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u12	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u13	Your Honor! Yes, the law must be observed, and library activities continue to be the tasks of each municipality, and some municipalities organise those services themselves and some municipalities organise them in cooperation with other municipalities. This library law will strengthen the strong educational function of the municipalities to care for these cultural fundamental rights and libraries, which are the cornerstones of our civilisation. At the same time, however, we also have a big task of renewing libraries in time to reach new target groups. This digitality is one important direction, and libraries have played a major role in the integration of immigrants, for example, as a living room, as a meeting place. Libraries are increasingly also for people, not only the arenas of knowledge acquisition, but also, for example, the study rooms today. Many people like to spend time there surrounded by books with culture, and there are also a wide variety of events and programs. In other words, the field of tasks for libraries is becoming more diverse, but the basic tasks remain, and we will keep
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u14	Mr President! Thank you for the Minister's statement here today that the principle must be that the library law needs to be respected. In this speech, I would like to make sure that, in practice, this means that the dismantling of standards will not apply to libraries, nor will any encouragement be given to municipalities to do so in any way. And I really think it is important that this is the case, and this is a new line in relation to it, because I remember well the debate, the worrying debate that began then. It was surprised how this was possible that certain municipal leisure activities, libraries, sports services, youth services would not then have to comply with certain regulations in order to break the standards. But it is a major correction to the 'hey we break standards and do damage' line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u15	Madam President! This is an important reform and, in fact, you would have expected this even when you had the Minister's portfolio. Once we have had a library law which obliges you to have a library, but in fact there has been no claim whatsoever for what is in that library, if you had a desire to strengthen this during your ministerial term, you could have made stricter claims on what is in the library. The only thing that has now been defined is that the library should be. We have just heard how Minister Grahn-Laasonen pointed out that the library law is being reformed so that it strengthens the role of the library in every municipality, and it also highlighted these new ways, i.e. not just traditional books. And I very much welcome this fact that progress is being made now that the meeting of the Minister of Education has its portfolio and the government has such a desire to reform and strengthen. So it is not enough just to have the walls that have been maintained during the demos, but now to have good, new content.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u16	Madam President! Maybe Congressman Timo Heinonen doesn't know that, or maybe he knows this recent history.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u19	Mr President! Well, here's the good news. For the average library user, I think there is no point in arguing about who corrects the score, so to speak. If this new library law comes, it is clear that it was put forward during the previous government, and we hope
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u22	Madam President! There are different kinds of threats painted here. It's important, and we need to take it seriously. The Library Institute is one of the basics of Finnish civilization, and we all agree on that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-09-09-ps-81.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
