ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u1	: The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u2	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u3	I think it's going to cause a little debatation. So now I would ask those who wish to use the reply to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u4	Mr President! When this additional budget came to the table, I was quite certain that the government was now responding to this ever-increasing unemployment situation and is ready to take concrete action in favour of employment. We know that long-term unemployment is now booming, and that is the result of a reduction in the budget for employment management. But to be disappointed, I have to say that there is really nothing in this area. When the Minister presented the budget, it became clear that we are now in a situation where, despite the speeches, the level of debt is increasing, because employment measures are not enough at all. I would think that this income solution would
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u5	Mr President! As the Minister for Finance said, this came on a busy schedule. However, this additional budget has also been able to accommodate very large solutions of principle and also very large economic scale, but unemployment, the employment situation, as Mr Heinäluoma said, has not been enough time to take a look at it, and it really must be wondered. Perhaps the biggest issue for Parliament's budgetary authority and Parliament's economic decision-making is the Winterfell issue. And although this is given this 38.5 million and it is carried out as such an internal transfer technically, it is quite clear that this will not be the case, and it is to be expected that even before the summer break there will be far greater demands for the capitalisation and financing of Winterfell. I would have liked the Minister of Finance to have shed some light on this, because it is a very big issue and concerns both about the environment, employment and other aspects of the economy, especially the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u6	Mr President! This amending budget contains important current appropriations. That's where Mr. Uotila referred to Terrafame Oy. Its aim, of course, is to ensure the best possible solution in this respect, and then, according to the reports to the Committee on Finance, too, it was good to hear that it was prepared for all the different options. After all, important agreements are being concluded in Finland to improve employment. I think this is the kind of salutation that Mrs Heinäluoma has done here, can be done in every session, but yes it is important that we really get employment and employment conditions more widely improved in Finland. After all, the state's potential, through state funding, is limited.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u7	Mr President! It is not a question of saluting; it is a question of passing time, of reducing sand in the hourglass, and when the government itself does nothing here on the employment side, the result is still rising unemployment. When the minister said here earlier and told us several times that the government’s goal was 110,000 jobs, that was the goal a year ago. But have you, Mr Stubb, calculated what it is now that the number of jobs has only fallen? You are already on the target of 120,000 for the rest of the electoral term. And when nothing is done about employment by the government, the result is that the government's debt is getting worse and there are increasing numbers of government debt being brought here, and then we are driven into the spiral of cuts that Mr Stubb warned us about when he was Prime Minister before the parliamentary elections. You've told me that the spending limits are being prepared for new surgeries. So I call for the government's own action to reflect this employment objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u8	To this match, Mr Vanhanen, the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u9	Mr President! It is just in December that we have drawn up a budget for this year, and there is also a budget for employment. This amending budget is clearly the answer to these few acute questions that need to be addressed. This week's by far the most important process for employment and growth is now under discussion in an attempt to achieve a social pact. If it is brought to the port in a sufficiently ambitious way, it is far more important for employment and investment in growth than this spending of a few ten million for certain purposes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u10	And yet again the answers to this debate, Mr Arhinmäki and Mr Turunen, and then we will go forward in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u11	Mr President! Unemployment appropriations were cut from last year to this year, and unemployment has increased further, in particular long-term unemployment. If the government's objective were to tackle long-term unemployment and to improve employment, then the first amending budget should improve the chances of employing people, creating jobs. Mr President! Now we are preparing for the incorporation of Metsähallitus. There is no pressure or binding side of the EU, and at the same time this labour market solution, which the government wants to call a social pact, is being adopted. Today, however, the government has announced that it is not enough, even though it is already taking away holiday money from low-paid women in the public sector and is about to be given to private companies — a transfer of approximately EUR 2500 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u12	Mr President! At the mouth of the opposition, the fact that employment is not being managed and money is not being put into it, but if you look now at the presentation of the Minister of Finance, the figure of 170 million is being put into jobs, jobs are being maintained : EUR 132 million for Arctia Icebreaking and Winterfell, EUR 38.5 million. These are precisely the kind of issues that will help to manage employment, to maintain jobs. As far as this Metsähallitus is concerned, this schedule is that this case must be taken care of by 17 April. This incorporation in this respect is the only sensible solution. All-seeming citizens
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u13	Mr President! The Minister of Economic Affairs, Olli Rehn, has not been able to answer a number of questions in this Chamber about how the government can convince any investor, not to mention us decision-makers in this Chamber, that the Winterfell mine would be able to generate market profits. We've only been disappointed over and over again. I would ask you, Mr Stubb: if the world market price for nickel does not double, if there is no guarantee of the operation of the mine processes if the decision of the Vaasa Administrative Court is delayed, will the government prepare for the orderly dismantling of the Winterfell mine?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u14	Mr President! The economy and employment are everything and must be successful, and it is positive that the social pact now has the will to make decisions and agreements. All decisions taken in this Chamber should always be made through work, whether they increase work or reduce work. Thank you for this amending budget, above all, for the establishment of the Cruel-Olkky National Park. The establishment of Finland 100 years is an important issue, but my concern relates to the same Winterfell. Less than a year ago, we gave 200 million dollars there, that money has gone, now we give 38 million, and in a few moments, the 300 million that would have cost the controlled shutdown. Who's gonna put their own money on this now? It is important that Mr Rehn and the Minister for the Environment, Mr Tiilikainen, should also be present in this debate when the continuation of the Winterfell, Terrafame, will be discussed. Unfortunately, I myself am quite critical of this. I've never been there before.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the part of the debate that I now admit, in relation to Winterfell, a few replies, first Mr Turunen and then Mr Suutari and then Mr Korhonen. Here we go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u16	Mr President! Mr Heinonen has now made a very good speech, but it must now be corrected that this 38.5 million is not over the 200 million, but just the same money that was granted earlier, the 200 million. There is still this 38.5 million at the bottom of the bag, which is now technically used for this purpose.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u17	Mr President! The fact is that this is about the same money, this Terrafame only technically transfers it into capital. In my opinion, these issues need to be dealt with very carefully, and they will be dealt with in the Committee on Finance, specifically in the Section for Economic Affairs, and one might say that there are good reports that this production is on the increase there, that if the world market price increases as expected, we may also have a very good chance of getting revenue and employment from the 800 echoes that are currently working there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u18	Mr President! In this context, employment funding has been emphasised, and it must be said that Terrafame's additional capitalisation of less than EUR 40 million in this situation is precisely employment funding in so many ways. The mine currently employs around 800 people directly and is in the province where the unemployed currently have about 6,000, a huge employer. Of course, there are many question marks involved : whether the process of dissolving will work, which is the final product, the price level of nickel, the water permit process is open, i.e. there are a lot of these if-issues. However, in this situation it may also be asked that, if all these problems can be dealt with, then what enormous positive importance does Terrafame have thereafter. After all these if-and-when issues, I still feel strongly that Terrafame should be financed, capitalises in the way the government is proposing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u19	I will give this part of the debate one last speech, Mr Halmemenpää, and then we will move forward in the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u20	Mr President! Employment is an important issue and, of course, employment in Kainuu is of particular importance to me too when it comes to its own constituency. But it is very expensive to employ the state in this way. If you include all the amending budget budgets that have been made in Talvivaara, Terrafame, you include the investments in Solidium, the funding that has gone through Finnvera, then you have already employed more than half a billion euros. But has the desired result, the market - based well and metal been achieved on the world market? A great deal of work has been done, one large bankruptcy and major environmental problems. I am not entirely convinced that employment should continue in this way. But if we move on to a controlled shutdown, that too will employ Kainuuan for years to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u21	Mr President! Yes, Minister of Finance, we must now put the cat on the table and say that our long-term unemployment is increasing by around 19% and at the same time you are cutting the employment budget for this year. Again, we have an amending budget at hand, which is completely lacking in employment measures. The government talks about employment, but there is a complete lack of action. Now that the negotiating proposal has come into being, you have had room for manoeuvre. It would be sensible and wise to change the economic policy line in a more employment-friendly direction. President! It's a perfect place to change this direction. Instead of promising employment measures there, you are talking about additional cuts that would be absolutely disastrous. At the same time, Minister, in the spending limits debate, you must be able to correct the injustice associated with the taxation of pensioners. Can we get these answers from the spending limits?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u23	Mr President! I would first like to comment more generally on this amending budget. I am very pleased that it has been brought in good time to promote this Metsähallitus law and we have a number of good points here that are precisely topical. I would like to highlight this assistance to Turkey. We have also received a lot of criticism from the government about the cuts in development aid. Well, we are now responding precisely to the situation that is actually going on. The assistance provided to and close to the region of origin is much more effective in terms of its output ratio, and it is good that this is addressed. As far as this employment is concerned, has it not already become very clear that this is the top priority of the government?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u24	Mr President! We are talking about employment, but at the same time we heard in the Minister of Finance's speech that the government is proposing an additional budget of EUR 1.7 million for the purchase of tin police, or surveillance cameras. The decision is based on, inter alia, the fact that the acquisition pays itself back quickly in the form of increased fines. One of the objectives of the Government Programme is also to ensure that legal protection is effectively implemented and that punishments are consistent with people's sense of justice. The question arises as to whether the arguments put forward by the government are sustainable. It is not right for the government to use fines as a means of patching up the state economy. Punishments, controls or rules should not be imposed on economic grounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u25	Mr President! The promotion of work and entrepreneurship is the number one in government policy, and that is what I want to encourage the government to do. It is good that we have been tough on the issue of social pacts, and now that the agreement is about to be concluded, the whole thing is about to be resolved, and I ask: is it certain that the government will also hold to the fact that the one-off compensation for the cost of parenthood is also coming as legislation here in Parliament? The amending budget will be carefully reviewed in the Committee on Budgets, but I would like to say that it is important that important value choices are made in the midst of all the economic rigour. This amending budget also includes an appropriation for the allocation of a 24/7 telephone for victims of intimate partner violence under the Istanbul Convention and for the coordination of the THL. This is a very good and important sign that this government is also a government of equality. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u26	Mr President! Just as Mr Terho said, this amending budget does not replace or improve employment. And that is why the budget with which we are now living already seems to be threatening the end of the money for employment, for start-up money. Therefore, precisely because of the government's own choices, this would have been an opportunity and should have already changed the line. But, Mr President, it is true that the proposal for a solution that has now been received from the labour market would allow the government to revise its approach. The problem is that possible collective agreements will not enter into force until 17. Two years goes by, the clock's ticking, there's no sign of the search list. Will the coalition now accept this solution, and are you now going to turn government policy into a more employment-friendly, balanced policy in the forthcoming spending limits debate? Now you would have the opportunity to do so if this agreement were to be reached.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u27	Mr President! I would like to thank the SDP — thank you for stopping combing and resisting the social pact. And it has to be said that one-off can be taken from the Bank of Finland and Sitra, but only once. You can't build a future for it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u28	Mr President! I don't know where in the imaginary world Beachkangas has lived if he hasn't noticed that many times we offered help. And it seems that, as soon as the government listened to the opposition, freezing these mandatory laws, there was room for a solution, and now there seems to be a possibility of a solution. And, Mr Rantakangas, as far as this is concerned, do I remember correctly that you, during your last term in the opposition, argued that EUR 600 million from a grey economy just like that without any programme? Prime Minister Sipilä would probably say that this is some nonsense for his own alternative budget. But, Mr President, the question is: will the coalition agree to this agreement and are you going to change the line in the forthcoming debate on the spending limits? If this happens now, it will create stability. You would have the opportunity to introduce employment measures here and now. When are you going to implement the model of the Ringe?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u29	At the last stage, Mr Zyskowicz took the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u30	Mr President! Employment appropriations have a role to play in the development of employment, but, for example, as the representatives of Ala-Nissilä and Vanhanen have said here, general economic policy is of course most impressive. This is accompanied by this comprehensive labour market agreement that is now under way. Let us first say, when the government is criticised, that such negotiation processes and such a negative solution would never have arisen without the government having pushed on. This agreement will have a significant impact on employment. Let's talk about tens of thousands of employed people. As regards the attitude of the coalition and the government, the government is currently looking at the result of the negotiations, looking at it from the point of view of the impact of public finances, looking at whether it is trying to limit the government's action in terms of savings and reforms, and looking at what is meant by local agreement. The government then makes final decisions for its part.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u31	Mr President! The Winterfell mine is an important employer in Kainuu, and it speaks a lot in our constituency, but this amending budget raises a serious question as to when the pouring of taxpayers » money into Winterfell will end. There is no point in maintaining unprofitable and environmentally harmful mining activities if there is no credible prospect that the mining process will work, that it will be profitable and that environmental problems will be addressed. And before granting this proposed additional allocation, Parliament must have a comprehensive and reliable account of the real conditions under which the mine operates. Advertising and unwarranted requests for an increase in the world market price of nickel are no longer sufficient. It also costs money to get the mine out, but if there is no prospect of profitability, it is saddened to say that it is more sensible and cheaper to spend public money on a controlled mine discharge than to constantly pump additional money for unprofitable activities. I would ask if Kainuu's employment activities could not be done in a more sustainable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u32	Mr President! First of all, I too would like to join Mr Heinonen in his amazement about the fact that there are issues of such importance in the additional budget as this issue of the Metsähallitus and the issue of Terrafame - that it would have been desirable for the ministers concerned to be here in this Chamber to discuss these issues as well. Of course, the committee is important, but this is the public arena in which these issues should be clarified. President! There are now very concerned contacts from various parts of Finland, particularly with regard to employment. There's a shortage of start-up money. People are told not to be there in the employment services. That is why I would like to ask you, Mr Stubb, what you want to say to these people who are now unemployed, because the fact that we are now telling them that we are maintaining existing jobs is not enough for them. They would need paths to work, and those paths will not be created without funding for these important actors. And you're cutting. What is this equation here?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u33	Mr President! The public's sense of security is now being tested both from the outside and from the internal security point of view, and now in this additional budget we have proposed EUR 1.7 million for police action, with a focus on this area of tin police and road safety. Not at all a bad item per se. Of course, in this tight situation, there is an attempt to allocate more money from office premises to operations, and then, at the same time, by reducing the walls around the walls, there is also an effort to preserve the jobs of police officers, which is of course wisdom in labour policy, not to mention internal security. Of course, the question has to be asked that either we are in a situation where policemen can no longer be reduced, but that this is what will have to be addressed in the future. Now that the Internal Security Programme is being worked on and started, attention must also be paid to this. However, there are also good experiences of digitalisation and service cars. Such a service car system has been and has been good in Central Finland, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u34	Mr President! First of all, on this issue of employment: Perhaps it reflects this stunting belief in the left-wing opposition that some tens of millions of dollars are being laundered in the budget, while at the same time a decisive week is taking place in the kingdom as to whether the competitiveness of Finland can actually be saved, whether the unemployed are actually being employed at a sufficiently low threshold. The challenge here, in particular, is now emerging on the side of this taxation as to whether this package contains sufficient elements for the reduction of income tax. Fortunately in any case, of course, we have questions coming up, for example in connection with the financing of social services areas, where we need to rethink the tax focus on the state side. I would like to see a clear majority in this House, if we are so keenly interested in employment, to see the tax focus shifted from the taxation of labour to other tax types, which have a lower impact than the taxation of employment and enterprise to making it more difficult to save this country. I hope that this will be reflected at the time when taxes are decided. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u35	Mr President! It is not a trick job when someone wants to start a business and needs start-up money for it, or when a company receives support to be able to employ an unemployed person. It is precisely the kind of action that will catch up with people who are in trouble, unemployed. Last year, employment appropriations ran out during the early part of June, and the money was cut to this year — at the same time as unemployment has increased. And now it is said that the solution is this so-called social pact. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance, Mr Stubb, that when working time is extended, how it will increase employment, how the unemployed will gain more jobs, or how it will increase employment by transferring an estimated EUR 2500 million of purchasing power from workers to companies, this reduction in purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u36	The reply, Mr Kiljunen, and after a few speeches, the Minister has the reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u37	Mr President! Investing in young people and employment services has been completely forgotten in the government. Again, this budget, which we are debating here today, has not invested at all in young people or in the long-term unemployed. The government's lack of action is reflected, among other things, in the fact that there is 17 per cent less wage support work, 22 per cent less in the work trial and around 17 per cent fewer employees in the labour test than last year. In other words, the government does not really invest in the long-term unemployed and young people at all. We know that now this increase in employment and investment in young people is a worthwhile investment and permanent social exclusion costs about EUR 1 million for each young person. How do you justify allowing young people to be excluded when, at the same time, you know that it will cost about EUR 1 million for each young person? What is your contribution to the future, Mr Stubb?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u38	Mr President! While we are familiar with this criticism of the opposition from previous discussions, let us review : competitiveness is what generates jobs in the private sector in Finland. Private sector jobs are those that strengthen central government finances and do not weaken them. From these methods of yours one might conclude that we have a completely different idea of how difficult Finland is and how great reforms are needed. When you look at one additional budget and complain that this is not it and this is what is missing and that and nothing is being done, I wonder if you have not followed at all what the government is doing all the time. It is just this week that a very historic change is about to be made to this long-standing negative spiral in Finland. We have a historic turn to take, and you are making a few small millions of dollars in this additional economic estimate. In reality, we have so much going on that now it seems more that you do not somehow agree to see what is happening. We are precisely solving these issues, what you want, in the arenas where they really can be solved,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u41	And the replies, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, Mr Salolainen and Mr Kari, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u42	Mr President! I have to wonder about that amount of empty talk. Sampo Terho boasts that the government is making a historic turn, but there is no practicality in what the change is and how it is done. With regard to the continued financing of Terrafame, it must be said that if almost anywhere in Kainuu were to be allocated those same appropriations, more jobs would be created than by pumping into the Winterfell cesspool. It is difficult to find a similar environmental disaster, similar bankruptcy, similar cesspool and pointless project compared to this Winterfell. Only Finland's wasteful nuclear projects seem to compare with this. And as far as this social pact, which has been praised here, is concerned, in fact, the transfer of money from low-paid women's sectors to support private companies is concerned. How does the government intend to respond to the fact that, in the end, the whole of this social pact will be fair,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u43	Mr. Speaker! The Winterfell mine is not viable. Nothing has been put forward that would at least make me believe that it will be viable in the future. I've never seen anything like it. Moreover, the whole project is open in the sense that the dismantling pipeline of Lake Nuas has not yet received a legal decision. If it goes down, it's gonna be a mullet all over the mine. Some environmental crimes are taking place here, which must in any case be paid for in the future. Now the Committee on Finance is in a very tough position. They must now objectively see what this situation really is: whether 40 million will be wasted in the wilderness, without any result other than employment, which in itself is positive, but it will not solve this issue. I shall wait for an objective assessment of this from the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u44	By way of exception, I shall now give the floor to the other representative of the same group immediately. Mr Suutari, please reply to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u45	Mr President! This is really an internal transfer, and the money is exactly the same as whether or not to give it there now – in any case, it is necessary even if it is driven down then in the summer. But now, in April, it is likely that the Vaasa Administrative Court will decide on this half-licence of the demolition pipe. After all, the administrative court of Vaasa halved the permit for its demolition pipeline there, and the burden has now been no more noted in that Nuase. I myself live on the beach and next to Winterfell, that I am interested in this environment and that I have been interested in the environment earlier than perhaps any of you. I have lived there since 2007 and it is my childhood landscape that in the sense that I know this situation. I have to say that I think there is too much fuss about this here. Let us now wait for a proposal from the Committee on Finance and the expert section.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u46	At this stage, Mrs Debati's last speech to Mr Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u47	Mr President! Perhaps you can add to this speech by Mr Salolainen that we now need an external report for Parliament to clarify both Terrafame and this whole issue of Winterfell in this Chamber. But I actually asked for the floor after Mrs Katainen had spoken. It was a matter of police money. The amending budget will add 1.7 million to the Tin Cops. At the same time, the number of real policemen and police women threatens to fall from 7,500 in the spending limits period to about 6,500, that is, more than a thousand policemen and women. Will this level of police force be corrected now in the spring, when Parliament will have to review the budgetary frameworks? We need something more than street patrols for internal security or a situation in which the overall picture of internal security is still quite inconceivable.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u48	And now, Minister Stubb, out of the toilet for four minutes. Debates of the European Parliament
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u50	Mr President! I was left somewhat unclear about the government's attitude towards this local agreement. When the Minister of Labour, Lindström, has stated in public that this model, which has now been negotiated, is that the position of the Minister of Finance, or does the Government have a third position that will not be passed on to the debate here in Parliament? In this respect, I would like to ask you what the position of the Minister of Finance in relation to this local agreement, which has been negotiated by the central organisations. The second thing I am a little concerned about is that when the Minister of Labour, Mr Lindström, has said here in Parliament on several occasions for months, that this model is being introduced, whereby the basic daily allowance as a passive daily allowance is put into active use, as it were, as employment budgets, active measures — and it does not cost anything — in fact saves the cost of the state — where this is taking place. This would create employment for the thousands of people who are waiting for the employment money, the active money, so that they can find employment in the form of pay subsidies. That's what we're waiting for right now on that field.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u51	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz said that this government has done something that no government has done before. And he has done so. No government — neither the Aho bourgeois government in the '90s nor the subsequent governments — has been able to pull employees out of the keel in the way that this basic bourgeois government is now able to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u54	Mr President! Yes, this week also offers a unique opportunity for the opposition to make a genuine stand for what they are against. This recent speech by Mr Uotila indicated that the Left Alliance would clearly not be in favour of this ongoing agreement. You are proposing as your means of managing employment — that is to say, for the long-term employment budget — to increase money and the state to employ in different ways. I think it would be fair for you to take a stand now whether or not you are in favour of this agreement at the end of the negotiations. And yes, I expect the same answer from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u57	Mr President! In fact, from this opposition, it may be even more difficult to assess the final positions, when the government has to reflect on them. In fact, as far as the problem of local agreement is concerned, when you look at this outcome of the negotiations, there is an entry into force of the local agreement without the approval of the federal level. What is good here is that efforts are being made to improve the role of lobbyists in the workplace, but if one thinks that there will be a dispute at the workplace over the local agreement that is, then it would be quite impossible for trade unions not to be able to resolve this issue either in the labour court or in the district court. If a non-attached or non-organised worker enters into a local contract with an unorganised employer, it would be quite impossible for the worker to secure his or her right when he or she personally had to pay the costs. So there's still a lot to think about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u61	Mr President! I could not believe it when I heard Mr Vanhanen, the former Prime Minister, speak. So we have just asked the opposition whether this model of local reconciliation is acceptable to the assembly. It was unclear. Is this a solution for the government? That's what a lot of people here proved to be unclear. There are representatives of the government parties who have previously taken the view that this solution should not be adopted, and Mr Vanhanen, who has so far said that the opposition should not now interfere with this process, is now demanding answers here before the government even has its own position. It would now be important to hear what the position of the government, and in particular of the coalition, is. The crucial question is that the clock is ticking, the agreements will enter into force in 2017, in whatever form, and this will be a waste of two years as we wait, and employment will decline and unemployment will get worse. If this were to happen, you would now have stability and the prospect of changing the government's economic policy in a more employment-friendly direction and introducing the Ringe model. Yes, this is a tough solution for purchasing power, but that is why we have presented Emu buffers, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u65	Mr President! I am now horrified at listening to this government announcement. I do not really know whether you are now adopting and promoting this agreement or not. In that reply, the Minister of Finance did not find out what you are doing — some vague description,that ‘we are looking at something here’. There is a clear agreement between the parties when you asked them to agree. They did not do it in such a way that you had no part in it, but you asked the organisations to seek agreement. Now it is. And now you're here like you're running, so we still need something. They have agreed that local agreements will be promoted through agreements between unions. Isn't that pretty clear in Finnish? What's the big deal? All the credibility goes on if not the government in such a situation will be able to determine that it is ready to accept this agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u66	Mr President! Now that there seems to be some confusion about these positions, it is now reported that the Christian Democrats already said yesterday that it is worth saying yes to the date of the leap. It is quite clear that progress in these negotiations on social pacts, and also progress in the details of local reconciliation, is extremely important for Finland's economy and employment and is absolutely central. However, I would have liked to ask the Minister for Finance that, now that these social insurance contributions are now coming into the purchasing power of the workers, does the government have the resources to accept and correct the situation so that it does not become the case that, indirectly, the taxation of labour through this means will then be tightened up. On the other hand, I would also like to pay tribute to the roses for saying that you intend to take forward this burden-sharing of parenthood. This is very good news and we do want to encourage the opposition to do so. Hold on to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u67	Mr President! I too would like to begin by thanking Mr Stubb for this positive news that the government will implement the compensation for family costs that has been mentioned. As far as this agreement is concerned, it is unclear to the demarches what the coalition and the government are. And As regards Arhinmäki, it is unclear how this agreement will in general increase jobs. The important thing for the government and the Assembly is precisely that, although Mr Arhinmäki does not realise that this agreement will increase jobs by tens of thousands, more than the active employment appropriations we are talking about here. In any event, the government wants clarification on the impact on public finances in the further examination of a good agreement,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u70	Mr President! I do not think it is worth worrying now about whether the government will take a position on this, because certainly it will take a position on it then, when we know what its precise effects on competitiveness and public finances are and what its effects are both practical and legal through this local agreement, so that the workplaces also know what is the right to agree on and what is not. And I'm sure we'll get answers to these pretty soon. When — I myself dare to use that word — the contract is concluded, then... Of course, I am anxious not to remind the SDP that at no time did you agree to take a stand for the objective of improving competitiveness. On no occasion did you accept any of the practical proposals that the government was making through legislation,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u71	Mr President! I must say that the Socialist Party is not a party to this agreement. The agreement has been negotiated by the central employers' and employees' and employers' organisations, and it is the result of the negotiations that the government has then announced that it will assess. It is unclear to me where either the coalition or the government is not prepared to accept this agreement at all. That is the process that the government set as its objective for this group of central organisations: to seek a solution to this whole. It is still unclear to me after these speeches, which is the position of the Centre Party, the Coalition Party and, in particular, the Finns of Peru — it is not clear from these speeches that have now been used in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u73	Mr President! Firstly, if this government had genuinely been interested in promoting the position of women in the labour market, then you would have left the subjective right to day care alone and invested in improving the quality of day care rather than weakening it. But, Minister of Finance Stubb, this government has stated that the tax rate should not increase. Now, however, this agreement concluded yesterday by the social partners means that employees' tax-related contributions will rise quite significantly for all employees. This money will therefore not be transferred to the Treasury to finance the common services, but will be transferred directly to the cashier of the companies. At a time when companies prefer to pay huge dividends rather than spend money on jobs and investment, these massive transfers are being made from employees to companies, i.e. the government is now sending this competitiveness policy payment to employees in full. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance: do you think this is a fair policy, and will the government at all involve high-income dividends in these efforts?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u74	Responses, representatives Elomaa, Harakka and Hautala.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u75	Mr President! If a social agreement were to be reached, as I hope the SDP would want, it would be historic, just as Mr Terho stressed here. When it comes to improving employment, it is clear that agreement must be reached with the social partners. That's where everyone comes in a little bit. I believe there's a deal. This will require special attention to be paid to well-being at work. The quality of work can be further improved. This would be for the benefit of the workers alike. Why do you always have to put an employee against an employer? Can't we start developing a new culture? The desire and will of all of us must be the welfare of Finland and Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u76	Mr President! I wouldn't dare buy a used car from this government. The deal is done, the hand has been struck on, but then there will still be this kind of squirming and probably some sort of evening milking. Another source of confusion is the fact that Minister Stubb has been saying one single mantra : no one should be blackmailed by taxation. The Minister himself now admitted that taxation is being tightened up against hundreds of thousands of ordinary workers, low-paid public sector women, the famous midwives. But I would like to say a few more words about entrepreneurship, because this government is supposed to be an entrepreneurial government. After all, we ran out of start-up money in many places a year ago. The Executive Director of the Federation of New Business Centres stated that last year almost a thousand fewer start-ups started than one year earlier. The situation is particularly harsh in the Prime Minister's home field in Oulu, where the number of start-ups was less than half of the previous year. That this is the kind of entrepreneurship government. The real number is even bigger. More than 2,000 businesses would have been created if the start-up money had not been stopped. This is the harsh balance of the entrepreneurship government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u77	Mr President! Thank you, the Minister for Finance, for having presented a progress report on this labour market solution in the context of this discussion of the amending budget. As we all know, there are still open questions. At this stage, there is no point in going into this Chamber to question what they are, we will be able to return to that debate even later. Let us not harm the achievement of this possible social peace with our own speeches. Here, at the beginning of the debate, there was a debate on the impact of this amending budget on employment. For example, the allocation of Terrafame allows jobs to be maintained in the region. We must remember that Terrafame is a 100 % state-owned company, which means that now we own a company so that it can still operate. Time will then show what the future of its mine is, but in this context of the amending budget it will not be resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u78	Mr President! I would like to return to that further speech by the representative. Ms Kiljunen mentioned these youth unemployment statistics and concerns about how much one unemployed or marginalised young person pays. It is quite true, the bill is over one billion euros, if nothing is done. But I am sure the opposition must also be quite honest in recognising that this government has inherited this problem in terms of youth unemployment and the exclusion of young people. We have over 100,000 young adults under 29 years of age who have not received any secondary education at this stage after completing primary school. There is huge clay and huge work. The government will do everything in its power to train and create jobs for these people, and that is why the government is creating a different form of vocational reform. As I am sure you know, there will be a problem with, for example, part-training training courses and employment paths that previous governments have not wanted to achieve, unfortunately. I would also like the Social Democrats to see it as an opportunity to create jobs if we make new paths and not always block those doors on the pretext of a trade union title.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u79	Mr Stubb will have to leave for office — that is to say, for other important posts, this is extremely important — and before he leaves, I will give a reply to the representatives of Wallinheimo, Arhinmäki and Heinäluoma, and then Mr Stubb.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u80	Mr President! The social partners have indeed made their own proposals, but according to the calculations made by the VM, the effects of the social agreement are far from what the government originally demanded. Perhaps this could be put into practice by an example that the government wanted pole-jump terms at six metres, and unfortunately the social partners ended up at two metres. So, at least as a representative of the government party, I wanted to check this out now,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u81	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz was sure that this two-metre level will bring tens of thousands of new jobs, but Zyskowicz was not sure about anything else and therefore did not want to take any position. Mr President! When Kela payments were abolished, it was promised that it would bring jobs and investment. When the corporation tax was calculated, it was promised that it would bring jobs and investment. And what do we see now? The high dividends are distributed, unemployment is only getting worse, and we have a complete investment depression. How does the government promise that this agreement will not happen exactly the same way that dividends will only increase further? These are the ordinary workers, in particular the low-paid public sector women, whose holiday money is being cut for the benefit of the owners of export companies. The working time will be extended, which means that existing jobs will be reduced. And the preliminary estimate is that this entity will transfer approximately EUR 2500 million from employees to employers, that is to say, that the purchasing power will be reduced as taxation through these tax-related payments is tightened.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u82	In the meantime, Mr. Sampo Terho.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u83	Mr President! It is, of course, up to the opposition to criticise everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u84	Mr President! As a general rule, when Mr Zyskowicz asks for the floor, we will find out what the position of the Assembly is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u87	Mr President! There was another news here — hopefully some media will follow this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u90	Mr President! All along this path, when this labour market solution, known as the Social Pact, has been sought, with all its elements, since the discussions of the Government, which is the constituent of Sipilä, the Social Democratic Party has stated on all occasions that we are in favour of a labour market solution that creates stability for the future, creates predictability for businesses and citizens, workers, employees. And so I say in this context too that we are in favour of a solution that will create this future, and we have found that in this solution the parties, the central organisations, have reached the outcome of the negotiations. Now, as Mr Heinäluoma said, it is a question of what the government will say about this, so that the central organisations can continue to negotiate in the unions. That's what this is all about. The government must now be able to define its own position. There is no point in asking the opposition when it comes to the government's position.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u91	Mr President! To return to this real question, which is the supplementary budget, the Minister for Finance, Mr Stubb, is on the spot: if the government is able to double the price of nickel on the world market with some kind of pompous pomp and eliminate that Chinese nickel alloy, squeeze some kind of positive decision on Vaasa's administrative right and convince and insinuate these processes as well, how long is the State's tab open and how much taxpayers' money will still be needed to save the stock exchange company in the future? Do you have an estimate of this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u92	Last speech, Mr Savola, and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u93	Mr President! Of course, employment and entrepreneurship are the key factors, and we need jobs. Now the basis of the social pact has been established by the social partners, and yes, at least on the basis of this feedback, as far as the various sides are concerned, no one seems to be entirely satisfied with it, so perhaps some compromise elements can be found on the whole. Mr. Speaker! This Winterfell thing here has been a lot of conversation. Of course, it is also a well-known fact that if no money were put in there and stopped like a wall, the environmental impact would also be extremely great. That is why we must now concentrate all our energies on making this mine work in terms of its environmental impact, but also on getting this profitability right and running. It has enormous significance for Northern Finland. At least I am still able to believe in this situation that there are opportunities and prospects for the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u94	Now, Minister Stubb, is that enough for two minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u98	: Ladies and gentlemen, there are still a huge number of responses that have been asked for. Now I suggest that we continue the debate for a while, and I would now ask those who want the reply to rise up and press the V button again. The speeches will now be made on the basis of the speeches that are being asked for. — Minister Stubb.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u99	Since we are calling for a government position, we are going to build it and form it, which is why I have to leave the hall. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u102	Mr President! Indeed, I would have liked to have heard a positive word from a government line, because a certain history has been made here. It has been possible to agree on matters that have not previously been agreed upon. They need to be given the right value. It is quite right that the government should dismantle what these effects are, and then it is hoped that an agreement will be reached between all organisations that this can move forward. This is once and for all historic, but the effects are in the right direction, and these are what are needed now. And important, of course, is to know what are these effects then in the longer term. In the debate here, Mr Harakka called for the employment budget for the kind of budget that had been made when the socialists were in the government. I would like to point out that it is worth remembering which tree is being criticized here. Then, on the subject of local agreement, I would like to conclude by saying that, ultimately, it is based on the highest level of trust,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u103	Mr President! In brief : This Terrafame SDP is concerned about the employment of Kainuu and the mine in this area, it is perhaps good to say here. At the same time, a solution needs to be found that strikes a balance between environmental values and then a sustainable solution for employment. In our view, this would now require an external, honest and impartial assessment. While this assessment by the company is correct, it would be reasonable to make an external assessment. And I want to say that the SDP is concerned about Kainuu's employment. Mr President! Furthermore, Mr Zyskowicz, when it is clear that the government is unable to give its opinion, and Mr Zyskowicz has asked me what further clarifications the SDP wants, I will take one example. These records of local agreement — I think they are quite clear, there is no need for further clarification. It's in black and white. It's good for us. Congressman Zyskowicz, do you mind if they go to the assembly? I believe that this would contribute to this solution. Will they work for you, Congressman Zyskowicz?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u104	Mr President! I would also like to comment a little on this situation in Terrafame. This is a very difficult situation, and I am sure now, if this additional budget money were not provided at this point, it would be a bad solution. In other words, according to its previous decision, this decision will be taken. In my opinion, Mr Lindtman made a good speech, in the view of the Social Democrats : a genuine, external evaluation would be needed to enable all of us to make decisions on the basis of our own decision, as experts say that next June will require EUR 100 million more money. President Pekkarinen has brought his own views, which I am sure should also be considered in what circumstances they are being carried out. But the impact of nickel prices on this situation has now been only one per cent of the result that it has not now been the decisive factor at this point, but of course it should rise.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u105	Mr President! The social contract was signed 38 hours ago. Considering how huge it is as a package and diverse, it is quite understandable that in 38 hours' time the government will not have a final position on its content because the government has not been at the negotiating table. SAK, for example, was, but it has no position either. The issue of employment has now been very much on the agenda, and last year, the budget for the budget for employment in the Rinne — Illa — ran out in May. It has now been claimed that in February this year the money would have run out. I don't think so, but it's a difficult situation, of course. But Minister Lindström has said on many occasions that the aim is now to reform unemployment security,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u108	Mr President! One important thing which is why this amending budget has now been made is the issue of Metsähallitus. For us Lapland, this issue of Metsähallitus is very important, and the important thing is that the situation remains as much in the current state as possible. But there is a real fear that this situation will change, because in mid-April the directive on the competitive tendering of service concessions will come into force. There is a real fear here that if we do not do this company model now, it may be that, for example, a Polish company will win the competition and, suddenly, my municipality of Savukoski is responsible for forest matters, and then we will be in trouble. This is such a risk that at least I am not prepared to take this risk. Thank you for the fact that we have now put this issue in motion, and I hope that no other problems will arise now and everything will be dealt with in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u109	Mr President! Of course, it has been very confusing for the government not to be able to give its opinion on the outcome of this negotiation, but...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u114	Mr President! It is only natural that, when there is such a huge package of agreements as a social agreement, it will be carefully considered and then made final decisions. Just natural, normal preparation, careful work. But I wonder about this magical attitude of the demars in this social pact, usually in the whole of Finnish politics. You have cried out in this Chamber that everything that the government has done has always been wrong, And then after you have presented your own model, what is there? Look at what happened four years ago, the last parliamentary term. Your positive speeches have been... That four years showed that there was nothing there. And your negative attitude toward everything the government is suggesting is so overwhelmingly negative,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u115	And now Mr Heinäluoma has the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u116	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen, we are here to support the goal of this social pact.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u119	Mr President! It seems rather childish to have this debate, but at least I have not yet been able to find out what is included in the entry in the local agreement. That's what I'd love to hear if Mr. Heinäluoma would say. We've been talking about unemployment here. We were left with 300,000 unemployed last year. There were youth unemployed, long-term unemployed, and this trend continues. And when Finnish SMEs, which account for more than 90 per cent, employ Finnish workers, why are they not currently employed? That's why, because there's no sales, there's no marketing,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, this debate has now taken place for almost 1.5 hours. The debatable rate of the amending budget of 1.5 hours is pretty much the maximum. A few more comments, first Mr Andersson. We're almost done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u123	Mr President! This understanding of employment policy by the representatives of the government parties is indeed very wonderful. Of course, fiscal policy, fiscal policy, industrial policy are all very important tools when considering how we can increase the number of jobs and increase the employment rate. However, in addition to this, there is a need for labour market policies and employment appropriations. It aims to maintain people's ability to work, to facilitate people's employment, to do the work through them. In other words, we should have sufficient funding to address youth unemployment, support employment for the long-term unemployed, start-up funds. This is what it's all about. There have also been unemployed people during the previous term of government, there are also unemployed people today, but the main difference between this government and the previous government is that the youth guarantee has been reduced, employment appropriations have been completely cut out of the Youth Guarantee, and you have cut back on the already inadequate employment funds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u124	Mr President! There has been a hard debate here about the possible social agreement, and I myself am one of those representatives who hope that next Monday, when SAK organisations adopt a position on it at the latest, we will be able to ensure that this agreement is in place. And I hope that the debate in this Chamber will not cause something to be unclear. There have been doubts about the positions of others here, but I personally hope that the organisations and the social partners and the government will make a good agreement on this. The amending budget also took a stand on the Tint Cops, whom I am intimately familiar with, because I have such a good photographic relationship with them,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u125	In this debate, Mr Zyskowicz, it is more or less the last speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u126	Mr President! Mr Arhinmäki said that corporate tax had been reduced and that jobs had not been created. How do you think Mr Arhinmäki will know what employment situation we would have if the corporate tax rate were, for example, 26% instead of the current 20%? Furthermore, Mr Arhinmäki did not understand — and I remember that Mrs Anneli Kiljunen sometimes did not understand earlier — how the extension of working time would increase jobs. Well, it adds that if working hours are extended without salary being increased, the product or service produced by the company will be somewhat cheaper. And that's when the company gets a little better at selling it, and then there's gonna be more and more orders for that company.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u127	Mr President! When Mr Zyskowicz asked how it was known what the effect of a reduction in corporation tax, for example, was, what the effect would be on employment, it was at least known what its impact was on dividends. This year there will be a record dividend. At the time, jobs were promised, investments were promised. It is known that we are experiencing an investment depression. We have investments at the same low level as in the early 1990s, and at the same time record dividends are distributed. We know what the result was. And my question was: when you knew for sure that tens of thousands of new jobs will be created, how do you know that when this happened the previous time, when similar transfers have been made? As regards the extension of working time, at least the Ministry of Finance in its own calculations left last autumn
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u128	And the last speech, Mr Tolppanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u129	Mr President! This has now come quite funnyly from these things. Let's take those pay subsidies first. During the previous government, they were placed in a bank right from the beginning of the year and required people to have 800 days of unemployment before they were given them. On pensions — well, that was done when the Social Democrats were in the government, this folded index. Now that the index is positive for pensioners, you want to take it off so that pensions are smaller again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u136	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u143	We are going to have about ten actual speeches now, so that we can move on to the list. After each speech, you do not automatically follow the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u147	Mr President! A few reflections on the government's amending budget. The Government proposes an additional allocation of EUR 1.7 million for the acquisition of surveillance cameras. This decision is justified, inter alia, by the fact that the acquisition pays itself back quickly in the form of increased fines. At the same time as traffic controls are being strengthened, a significant increase in fines is being made by the government. The reasons for the increase in fines have been unambiguously provided for the adjustment of central government finances. The improvement of road safety through enhanced monitoring would be justified. However, the government's cash deficit should not be offset by fines and supervision should not be intensified in order to collect as high a fine as possible. The public's belief in the legal system must not be undermined by decisions which are clearly against their sense of justice. For example, collecting as high a fine as possible through calculated placement of surveillance cameras, together with significantly increased fines, could undermine public confidence in the legal system and in the police. In the past, the purpose of traffic control has been to improve road safety. Instead of collecting money or distributing penalties, the focus has previously been on accident prevention. It seems that the government has now chosen a new line, which in practice means a fundamentally different criminal policy linked to the state economy. As a result of this policy, the police are no longer actually controlling traffic, but are raising money for the state trunk. Unfortunately, such a change has several negative effects. Unreasonable fines for traffic offences are not in line with the public's sense of justice. This government proposal is also peculiar in the sense that the Minister of Justice, Mr Lindström, did not decide until last summer to start an investigation into whether the penalties were proportionate to the general sense of law. The purpose of the investigation is to change the penalties for different offences to reflect the seriousness of the crime. From this point of view, I consider the government's proposal, which leads to significant increases in speeding fines, to conflict with the Minister of Justice's own ideas. Mr President! The question arises as to whether the arguments put forward by the government are sound. It is not right for the government to use fines as a means of patching up the state economy. Penalties, controls or rules should not be imposed on economic grounds. Just a few more words about this much-spoken Winterfell project. The Board of Directors proposes the capitalisation of Terrafame Oy for EUR 38.5 million. Capitalisation is only acceptable if it can be demonstrated that mining is profitable and after this investment state money is no longer needed, for example, for the construction of a possible demolition pipeline in Lake Nuasjärvi or for the construction of gypsum and metal slurry pools or secondary stone sites required by environmental permits. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u152	Mrs Halmemenpää was just on the list of speakers for the tenth time, and it was noted that a small debate could then take place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u154	Reply, Mr Niikko. — I would ask others who would like to make a reply, to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u155	Mr President! Mr Halmemenpää and Mr Mikkonen were very critical of the Winterfell investment and its achievements — just on the subject. This experiment in the mining industry with nickel has been quite a disaster in Finland, but what do we do? In this situation, we are another example of what kind of legacy we have received from a previous government. These examples have been heard here many times today. However, this Winterfell does not resolve the fact that we are now closing the doors and saying that we are putting EUR 300 or 500 million in order to close it, but we must now patiently look at how we are going to proceed. We also need to get some money back from it. But I agree that if there is no buyer and if there are no environmental permits, then of course these must be looked at very critically immediately afterwards. But with regard to this promise and improvement of employment, in the run-up to the parliamentary elections, the Greens promised very much that they would create 200,000 jobs by 2020 if they went to the government. What were the means? It says here that at a seminar where your chairman has spoken, the means have been: 'Half of the new jobs will be created through employment and employment facilitation. Another 100,000 new jobs will be created in new sectors. Half of them could be created through the use of renewable energy." It is not with such sentences and promises to create jobs, but we need to get this competitiveness in order. I am pleased that the Greens will also agree that the social pact:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u156	Mr President! I'm not complimenting the previous government, but I don't think that Winterfell is their legacy. Perhaps this has a somewhat longer history, and perhaps it is more related to business, which is certainly known to the representative of Niikko. Of course, who remembers the old ones, with a stick in the eye, but if you look at this picture of the economy now in relation to this company, you might want to turn your eyes to 2013, when Minister Vapaavuori did not go out on 20 million stakes, which would have been the share of the state that would have taken this company's funding to make it into a voluntary debt arrangement. At that point, we knocked the door shut and now we're paying for it. We have already paid hundreds of millions for this solution to the Free Mountain and the TEM. It is now clear that we must begin to evaluate these issues in the hands of reason. In my opinion, the fact that funds are now being transferred from the environmental point of view here is unreasonable and has not tasted us in the Left Alliance. We now need to make decisions in order to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u157	Mr President! I have sadly followed this debate on Metsähallitus law and in recent days the contributions of the Finnish Nature Conservation Association, which seem to come almost as if from the Green Party office, if I mirror them in these words of Mrs Halmemenpää. Of this area of 40,000 hectares in Upper Lapland, where I have long lived and spent a lot of time camping, I would like to say that the area has been cut down by a few thousand cubic metres of wood per year and kept it clean and good and suitable for camping. There are now no changes to the use of this area so that, in that sense, there is no need for concern. I am surprised at this argument that it would somehow be easier to take these regions into commercial use. So I'm gonna ask you what firewalls we have right now. In exactly the same way, by Parliament's decision, these matters can be taken into commercial use if they are desired and considered necessary. But, yes, well done so far, and the regions there are still,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u158	Mr President! I myself would have intervened in this debate with regard to these employment appropriations and their regrettable lack in this amending budget and the fact that the government does not seem to want to intervene in this employment situation by its own actions at the moment. However, given the situation in which we are - unemployment is rising all the time, unemployment among our young people has already risen to the point where we have about 50,000 unemployed people under the age of 25 -- we would now be demanding these actions from the government. For example, the unfortunate cuts that the government decided to make to the Youth Guarantee should now be reconsidered and additional funds should be invested there, because this does not give the people the faith in the future which should be built up in Finland. Another comment in this debate is good to make it clear once again that it would also be a matter of urgency for us to be able to change our unemployment benefit in a slightly more active direction. Having heard a lot of promises about it here too with regard to the government parties, now should be little by little
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u159	Mr President! The government has taken steps to remove the barriers to employment and that is the most important issue at the moment. As we are well aware, the various types of subsidised employment measures are State employment. They are not productive employment, they are not investment, they do not support exports. Now we have to find new ways, these old ways have already been used. As far as Winterfell is concerned, accept now, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that new money is not going there; it is moving old money from one place to another. As far as it is concerned, now that Winterfell is in the situation where it is, it is only so that it pays, whether it is driven down or lifted up. Both are extremely expensive. At the moment, the situation is a dead end because we do not have a decision by the Vaasa Administrative Court. We must have the decision of the administrative court of Vaasa on what can and must not be run out of there, then we can look at this matter calmly and make constructive and good decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u160	Mr President! It is clear that new jobs are needed in this country. The fact that there is also concern about the employment budget does not rule out that we also need work for businesses and the private sector. We believe, in fact, that the bioeconomy is one of these areas of our future, such as digitalisation, cleantech, where new work can be created there. Also, basic income, which the Greens are pleased about, is one way of combining social security and work, so that all work would always be worthwhile and it would always be worth taking up the job. In the social agreement, these reductions in social contributions for entrepreneurs are a gratifying thing, but that does not eliminate the fact that we have some young long-term unemployed who also need tailor-made ways to find them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u161	Chairman! With regard to this employment, it is precisely in this way that young people should not be tricked into employment, but rather in the right labour market, that these jobs should be created and that employers should now be relieved to see that it is easier and more profitable to employ in the future. That's where we can find those drugs now. It is good that progress is being made on this issue. As far as Winterfell is concerned, however, I would like to remind you that these millions, which we are talking about and what we are about to give with the amending budget, are not additional money, but it is precisely the transfer appropriations that will be there. They do not, however, specifically remove it when it is said that the environment is being taken care of, but that it is absolutely in line that these environmental issues must be dealt with there and that they must be profitable in their operation, otherwise this will not be continued. It has been said that the plant will be stopped when it can be stopped, but in any case it will probably have to be run for a few more years. Yes, we must see that this profitable activity can be found there. After all, the bio-dissolving process is already working.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u162	One last comment to the representatives of Halmenpää, Niikko and Myllykoski, and then we go to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u163	Mr President! That was a little bit of an effort in my speech to put things where the money is put. If we are talking about the money invested in employment, we can compare this money put in Winterfell, for example, with employment appropriations of around EUR 400 million per year, which are now being cut. In other words, around EUR 500 million has been invested in winterfell. Of course, this will also work, but I do not know if the outcome is quite desirable. Regarding whether this is the legacy of the previous government or not, I would say that there is quite a lot of legacy here from Talvivaara Oy itself and the solutions and choices made there, one of which is uncertain technology called bio-dissolving, which has been found to work well in a warm and dry climate, such as Australia, but the warm and dry climate is not expected in Kainuu, not even with climate change. Another legacy is carelessness in measuring the size and tightness of waste tanks. It is not a government legacy, it is the legacy of Talvivaara Oy. The third legacy is the world price of nickel,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u164	Mr President! While support for employment measures and employment appropriations will continue to be needed, the extent to which this is the case is different. Now, in this government, we must introduce new means, because, as you mentioned, Mr Räsänen, the Youth Guarantee has not worked during the last term of government. There have been no promised jobs, training courses, which have allowed young people to reach this society. We must look at this differently and I think that this government has seen its important change : we must start to approach those who do not have access to education and employment in a completely new way. One thing is what the Ministry has promised that there will be a reform of vocational school. That is the most important thing that we should be able to get jobs for young people even with short training courses. And I believe that this government — while you are still giving time — is still succeeding in reforming these paths, which previously have not, until now, been able to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u165	There is now both the reply and the actual speech in Mrs Myllykoski. I would like to ask Mrs Myllykoski to speak on the floor. So we're moving on to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u169	Mr President! I listened to this debate earlier. Unfortunately, I did not have time to take part in it myself, but there were a few things that struck me here, particularly the debate on the social pact and its potential for competitiveness and the amending budget that is being discussed here today and now. In other words, there is a feeling that the opposition has first been critical all autumn of the government's failure to withdraw the mandatory laws, and that this was an obstacle to those negotiations and now that the social pact has been reached - and it is of course hoped that it will be widely accepted and that it will be a compensation for this government's competitiveness package - and then today, however, it was criticised for the fact that the government does not do enough for employment. Among other things, the SDP criticised the fact that it would take two years to reflect these effects. The question arose as to whether the SDP would perhaps now wish for two years of compulsory legislation, but it has been strongly emphasised that it should be given the power of decision where it belongs. I personally believe that Parliament has legislative power, and I have not seen as a major problem that we should not legislate here or be able to legislate if necessary. Personally, I am very pleased that the agreement has now been reached and it is the wish of the parties. It was as if it was the result of a dispute, something like that came out of the debate here today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u170	Mr President! The draft amending budget provides an excellent line-by-step government initiative, i.e. this establishment of the National Park in the centenary of independence. The park comes to the border between Suomussalmi and Kuusamo in Hossa and Julmaan-Olkky, as has already been said here. An additional EUR 2 million will help to renovate and finalise existing hiking area structures during the coming summer and will help to get the park in good shape for the opening of June 2017. This cultural park will be built in interaction and good partnership with people and businesses in the region. The human handprint is visible in the park area from thousands of years ago as a result of hunting, fishing, reindeer husbandry and the exploitation of trees. I believe that this excellent partnership between man and nature should also be reflected in the future activities of the park. This park for the centenary of independence is an excellent message for international tourists, tells of a kind of quality message about Finland's unique nature, and this message is worth taking advantage of in the coming summer in tourism. The Minister's solution was good for both Hossa and Porkkala. Carrot nature will get another chance in the future, I think so. I would add that Mr Heikkinen's speech on the Winterfell report must be supported. The impact on other industries may not have been sufficiently highlighted here over the years.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u172	Madam President! This was the subject of a debate on the situation in Winterfell, and I agreed with the view that it might be useful to have such a quick but comprehensive study of the impact of Winterfell, not only on nature, the economy and employment, but also on other economic activities. I have just listed that, among other things, different forms of agriculture and food production and the processing of food produced in primary production are such that they can and are already substitutes. However, tourism must also be included in this list. This is a pretty central industry in Finland and not least higher than Finland. Many get bread from tourism, and when we try to attract foreign tourists and euros here too, we cannot afford to lose our unique nature. However, Madam President, this second issue, which is why I arrived here in the floor, was this amending budget under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, amounting to more than EUR 8 million for country and regional development cooperation, which mainly covers 30% of the agreement that the EU has committed EUR 3 billion to improving the living conditions of refugees in Turkey as part of wider EU-Turkey cooperation to curb migration flows from Turkey to Europe. This is certainly a good measure, and I am pleased that the EU countries are able to take concerted action in Turkey, and certainly in other crisis areas and areas close to the crisis. All efforts to strengthen cooperation between the EU and the UN refugee organisation are to be welcomed, in the form of assistance in crisis areas. But I would also like to highlight all the measures that we, as the EU or under the UN umbrella, could do to curb the smuggling of human beings and trafficking in human beings. It does not mean merely this refugee aid in those regions, but a joint effort to take away, in a way, the living and working conditions of these criminal organisations which are carrying out this trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. It saves lives and, overall, that we should be able to do refugee work, the 'choosing work' of asylum seekers there, in many ways would be part of the solution to our refugee issues. In my view, if we were able to carry out on a wider scale the discovery and safe introduction of genuine asylum seekers into the EU, it would be humane and would certainly be able to respond to the criticism that this ever-increasing and certainly increasing immigration and migration flows of people will cause if these crises are not contained. Of course, the figure is the future and, of course, the human migration that is already taking place because of climate change and living conditions, the chances of living disappear from part of our planet. Yes, the sum total, what I wanted to say here, is that I want to encourage the Finnish Government to be an active party in these institutions of the EU and the UN Refugee Organisation, so that these measures can be implemented in order to provide such effective and well-targeted refugee aid in crisis areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u173	Mr President! The unemployment figures in Finland are appalling. At the end of January, Finland had nearly 370,000 unemployed. That's 8500 more than a year ago. In my own province of North Karelia, the proportion of the unemployed is 18 per cent of the labour force, and the corresponding figure for the whole country is around 14 per cent. Youth unemployment is also on the rise, but it is also on the rise. In fact, I am particularly concerned about the situation of young people. Studies show that the employment of a young person who has been unemployed for 3 months is significantly hampered. At present, there are more than 10,000 unemployed young people in Finland who have been unemployed for over a year. In this situation of worsening unemployment, it would have been important for the government to continue, in one way or another, the youth guarantee launched by Lauri Ihalainen. We all know that the Youth Guarantee did not eliminate youth unemployment, but it enabled young people to keep their long-term unemployment well under control. Last season it was the lowest in Europe. However, the government has abandoned most of the measures included in the Youth Guarantee and has now also led to an increase in long-term unemployment among young people. During previous recessions and recessions, the government has directed more money and more staff to the employment services. In spite of the worsening unemployment situation, the government has now reduced its employment budget and also saved money from the offices. This has meant, among other things, that young people do not receive personal service from the TE Office. For many young people, seeking a job without personal guidance and support is difficult. Young people do not know how to apply for employment in the labour market, because they do not know the rules of the game. It is ethically wrong for young people to be left to their own devices, as the risk of exclusion for young people is particularly high. According to studies conducted by the National Audit Office, unemployment can be cut faster during periods of recession and recession if staff are added to the TE Offices. Thus, this also works in reverse : the fewer employees in te-offices, the more unemployment is prolonged, and this has been observed particularly in the case of young people. The same studies have shown that young people should almost always be directed to the personal service. For young people, those who have just come to work and those who are not used to finding work, online services are simply not suitable. And at the moment, young people have to queue for personal service for weeks, in some areas even months. Minister Lindström has acknowledged these issues in many interviews, but at the same time he has stated that there will be no additional funding for dealing with unemployment. On the contrary, the budget is to be further reduced. I would therefore like to know whether the government has calculated what these marginalised young people will cost society in the future and how difficult it will be to get the young people who have been left out of work for a long time back to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u175	Mr President! As regards the employment of young people, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen says: The central goal of the government is to create more jobs in Finland. It is particularly important that every young person can continue his or her studies after comprehensive school and catch up with the job. During the last parliamentary term, the Committee on Finance particularly focused on the Youth Guarantee, and we unanimously stated in the report that the Youth Guarantee did not work. It did not provide support, security and assistance to those young people who specifically need it. And on the basis of that report, in the negotiations with the government, we looked at how the Youth Guarantee should be developed, and we agreed that the Youth Guarantee should be developed in the direction of a social guarantee, and that is one of the government's top projects. I very much hope that the opposition, and in particular the Social Democrats, will look carefully at what is happening with that key project. The problem with the Youth Guarantee was that there were a lot of players, but no one took a catch from a youth. Now the government wants to create a model in which there is indeed an adult who might exchange and care for a young person who needs help and support. In my opinion, it is one of the government's most important key projects.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u176	Madam President! Today we have been listening to the Government's proposal for the 2016 amending budget, and when the debate is coming to an end, then this kind of general attention to this Winterfell situation and Terrafame situation. The government is now trying to remedy the situation by its own actions, and it is understandable that action should be taken, as some measures should be taken to avoid an environmental disaster. But there are quite a few Members of Parliament from both the government and the opposition who have expressed serious concern about this assessment of the situation. I would like to reiterate the idea expressed in that debate that a proper external assessment of the situation in Winterfell and of the measures to be encouraged by experts from us politicians would be produced for both the national government and the whole Parliament. Then I will mention this matter of the tin police, 1.7 million for the tin police. That same European effort would make about 34 to 35 policemen and women in the field. We lack a significant part of the budget for the police until 2019. Tens of millions of euros will then be spoken of if we want to have this internal security situation, the police resources and the age-related removal of the police by 2019. It will not be corrected by an amending budget, and I hope that in the spring frameworks of the Parliament the government will present a proposal on how to achieve the stability of this police operation so that, year after year, the police do not have to give away various police services or even take up offices from the municipality as a donation, what is currently happening in Finland. This is not the best situation in terms of the credibility of police activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u177	Mr President! It is true that the Youth Guarantee was not able to control youth unemployment, but it was able to control long-term unemployment, which was the lowest in Europe last season when comparing the situation of young people in different countries. The government should also read this report from the National Audit Office, where the Audit Office states that at the moment more staff are needed at the TE Offices to help young people. A survey by the Audit Office has shown that the face-to-face encounter between young people is a priority if you want to help them into working life. At the moment, there are areas where young people expect to have access to face-to-face contact with a te-office professional for up to four months. And if a young person waits four months to get to a meeting where he can negotiate and reflect on the situation, that is far too long a time, because the study states that if he is doing nothing for three months or more, then that exclusion will be much easier and employment will be more difficult.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u178	Madam President! On this issue of Winterfell, such a stimulating aspect that when there is much talk of employment, Winterfell employs, or Terrafame in this case rather employs, 550 people directly, indirectly, about 250. In some discussions, you want to forget the importance of this for Finland and Kainuu, what is at this factory, and especially when you think about what the potential is in that area. It's estimated that the ore reserves will last for 60 years. Environmental damage and risks should not be underestimated, but in this situation, where the second option is to go down the well, it is also a long road and a very expensive road. Thank you for this national park issue. Suomussalmi and Kuusamo will receive a national park, and this funding has now been slightly advanced in that direction and has important links with tourism and entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u179	Mr President! I have listened to some of the speeches and I was also keen to comment. That Winterfell was the kind of thing I watched on television during the last term of government when I wasn't here as a congressman, and I've been really worried about it many times. I thought that what on earth is being done in this Parliament. It's pretty catastrophic for a citizen, isn't it? I do not think it would be a bad idea at all if that clarification had something new to offer, because it would have to be decided here that this is not like some Greece, that there is always more money being scraped and that it will never survive. Of course I'm so afraid of those environmental disasters. I am a very environmentally friendly person, and in that sense it would probably be good. I am pleased to see that I must agree with the SDP's Mäkisalo-Ropponen on this face-to-face meeting. I met him. At the branch of the Hyvinkää Employment Office, such occupational guidance psychologists from around Finland. We had this kind of meeting together, and they stressed precisely that especially for these marginalised and at risk of exclusion young people it face-to-face, face-to-face meeting, is the only way they can get ahead of it with self-confidence. There are often self-confidence problems. I thought there was a good example that told me this and that is descriptive. A young man said I was unemployed and I never wanted a job. This lady had then asked that, well, what are you going to say when a man you know comes across the street and they always ask you how you're doing now? He said that, well, he would turn across the street when he would not dare to say that he was nowhere, and then that conversation actually went on, that it was not a question of not wanting to work, but he had not really been able and knew what he was doing, and then he felt ashamed of it. That it wasn't like he didn't want to work, that he was such a pompous guy. Then that's how the knot went open.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u180	: The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u184	Mr President! I myself had some time to think that this deactivation issue would only come within the firearms law when the EU has dealt with this Firearms Directive and its whole, but of course this will be the case in pieces. As Mr Kulmala has already described the current situation quite well, I would also like to point out at this stage that, as Mr Kulmala did, we in Finland have a much more detailed regulation of this deactivation activity, as well as our national legislation in much more detail, than is the case in Europe on average. Therefore, it is very important that our Parliament also sends a message to Europe that European Member States also have room for development in this deactivation, that these deactivated weapons or parts of the weapon cannot be re-established for criminal purposes, among other things. And to add a little to the future: at a time when this Firearms Directive is moving forward in the EU – as I hope it will – I hope that it will also proceed in the spirit proposed by the Committee on Defence that the necessary weapons for reserve operations will continue to be used by the reservers. That is what the whole Committee on Defence would like to see unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u185	: A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Constitutional Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u190	Madam President! There is no longer a representative in this Chamber, Kari Rajamäki, but Mr Mika Kari is, Kari is like Kari. But seriously : the content of Mr Zyskowicz's speech. I share very much the same views that we would not, as it were, make an unexpected change in the law without not knowing the actual effects of this around 100 pages puma. In this respect, medical advice must be listened to with a sensitive ear. We need to listen with a sensitive ear to the experts who give an assessment of what the possible reform of the law will lead to in these areas and in these matters, because hardly any of us want to create legislation that we ourselves do not know about. But Mr Eerola mentioned there, if I correctly heard and understood that no health care would be provided to people who are suffering from diseases within the Finnish borders, whether they are contagious or not. This is something I completely disagree with and, as Mr Zyskowicz said, acute and urgent treatment in Finland must be guaranteed to people. It is important from the point of view of public health as a whole. Of course, humanity and human rights are also important, for which the health system must also be assessed. But perhaps the most important thing to do here is to pursue what Mr Zyskowicz referred to. All traction factors that Finland signals outwards must be in proportion to each other.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u191	Madam President! In my opinion, I did not say anything in that direction which Mr Kari claimed or suspected I had said. I have this speech here on paper, although it is always quite freely referred to, but it is more or less this line, and I said on this point: 'I stress that a person who has a residence permit, i.e. a legal immigrant, should be treated in our country.'
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u193	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u215	: A 16th item will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Audit Committee. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 26 February 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u266	Mr President! We have already discussed the possibility of introducing a ceiling on the amount of money spent on election campaigns on a number of occasions here. This proposal appears to have gained some support across party boundaries. I myself understand the underlying idea behind the proposal that campaign costs should not become a barrier to democracy. In fact, I do not consider the use of the candidate's own money to be particularly problematic, but, on the other hand, it might well be desirable to set an upper limit for the total amount of donations received by the candidate. This ceiling could be either a fixed amount or a formula for the candidate's own money in the election campaign. I do not take a position on the content of this formula, but I believe that this would contribute to greater equity between the various candidates. Mr President! In addition, prior notification of the use of electoral money should be made compulsory. It should also respond with reasonable accuracy, e.g. 10 % of the final outcome. In municipal elections, too, mandatory notification should be provided for all candidates, at least for the final outcome. Of course, the problem would not actually go away in those cases, although quite rare, where people who have not even been nominated for municipal elections are elected to the committees, but the consumer protection of the electorate would be a little better than at present. Perhaps this change could even increase the public's enthusiasm for voting slightly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-01-ps-16.u267	Madam President! This is what we discussed very intensely last week here and in connection with the previous government proposal on the same subject. Although we are talking about party funding, we were also talking about this election money announcement in the past. This ceiling for electoral funding is in itself problematic. As Mr Eero Lehti well said, the electoral district defines very much how much money the candidate has to spend in his election work. It does not matter which area, for example, seeks to be a candidate from New Zealand, as Mr Lehti had calculated. There is even more than five times the difference between having to spend more electoral funding depending on the election area. In that sense, we cannot find such an absolute sum that everyone could, so to speak, fight evenly in that election situation. In that sense, I do not believe that this electoral ceiling will solve the problem in any way. Rather, one should think about, for example, other things that have remained hidden. A good example is this party funding, for example, from social partners. Not only must money from labour market organisations be transparent, but it is also this work input, which is often given in elections, for example, by paid workers. In the sense of electoral funding when reforming, so should definitely take such an approach that it will increase transparency. As I have mentioned before, it is also important that, especially in municipal elections, people who do not get through and gain significant positions of trust or even chairing the Urban Planning Board should open up their election funding up to the last euro.
