ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u1	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications, to which the Constitutional Committee and the Economic Committee must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u2	Mr President! The Government's proposal for a traffic cycle and some related laws is being discussed. The proposal provides for a new transport cycle to implement the Government Programme's key projects to build a digital growth environment and streamline legislation. The aim is to create the conditions for the introduction of new technologies, digitalisation and new business models in the transport sector. This will make it possible to achieve better transport services that meet the needs of the user and enable new business operations. Serviceisation in transport and new service models are also important factors in meeting the challenges of climate change when transport equipment is shared and used more efficiently.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u3	Mr President! Digitalisation of public transport and the birth of MaaS in Finland is at the heart of the traffic cycle and the core issue and the opening of payment interfaces. I believe that we need to speed up this matter a little bit in advance. For example, state companies such as VR can serve as examples here and accelerate this activity by opening up interfaces. Another point I would like to make as a representative of the Finnish People's Party: The reliability of transport chains is very important for MaaS to remain in the first place, and I am pleased to welcome the fact that the permitability of a taxi will continue to exist. A quick question to the Minister at the end:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u4	Mr President! As such, this basic idea of using digitalisation and open interfaces offers great opportunities for Finland and hopefully also new work in this situation, where we all need jobs. But if we look at this taxi industry in this traffic cycle, we must say yes that the Finns of Finland once again ate one of their promises. Throughout the spring and throughout the summer, we have heard from different media that the Finns of Peru are not in favour of this extensive liberalisation of the taxi industry, and now it is on the way as a side of the traffic cycle. But I would have asked the minister a few questions: There is real concern in rural areas about what will happen outside of the busiest days of emergency services. Similarly, there is a real concern about over-pricing taxi services in the future, and this proposal envisages that the Finnish Transport Safety Agency could set these maximum prices if necessary if prices become excessive.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u5	Mr President! As a whole, I think that this package of laws, which is the traffic block number one, is a good thing, and it is good that it was finally brought to Parliament. The presentation that was subjected to the public debate in the spring has been refined into a very nice form now that we have come here. Digitalization gets a big leap. MaaS – mobility as a service – is progressing. Travel systems, travel chains are made possible and combined, are integrated, and you can design and buy tickets much more conveniently and easily. Many good features have come to this performance along the way: The ten - ton firabic rule was removed, or the proposal was removed. Taxi licence is still needed, driving licence is still needed in taxis. Taxis must be registered in Finland, and so on. As a whole, Mr President, this proposal will certainly take the Finnish transport system to a new era and will revolutionise the ways in which this country will move in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u6	Mr President! Indeed, much has been said in public about the fact that Uber and other sharing economy transport services have not been taken into account by the traffic cycle. However, I cannot find a point in this traffic cycle which would in fact even interfere with the operation of Uber drivers, provided that they obtain a taxi licence which is therefore not restricted. They can then legally drive and use Uber's ride brokerage and payment service,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u7	Mr President! Finland is a sparsely populated country of long distances. Our flow of goods is pretty thin. It is good that we have now been able to bring transport services into the 2020s and prepare ourselves for the fact that logistics, the mobility of services and people and goods can and must be a competitive advantage and advantage for Finland. That is why it is good to think about travel chains in such a way that all means of transport are involved. After all, the second stage is coming out of the traffic cycle soon, that this is only the beginning. It is good that taxis are also included in the travel chains, which will remain subject to authorisation, and it will provide us with services on land as well as in cities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u8	Mr President! A comprehensive reform of transport is indeed important. It is great that we can now finally begin to deal with many of the reforms initiated by the former Minister of Transport Merja Kyllönen. I am particularly concerned about the abolition of the price and quantity regulation of taxi licences. It could have unpredictable effects. In all probability, companies in large cities will start to compete for prices towards the bottom, while prices in less populated areas will rise. I would like to ask you, Mr Berner, whether you would be able to concreteise where savings can be made in practice in sparsely populated areas, or is it really the case that prices are falling in large cities and that even in this reform the rural population is being paid for?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u9	President, Talman! Trafikpolitiken är en mångdimensionell hehet där det lätt går så att det är de stora trafikformerna, de stora project, som stjäl uppmärksamheten. Ändå är det så att det också finns mindre helheter som kanske i den stora helheten är små, men lokalt och regionalt livsviktiga. Hur ser ministern på skärgårdstrafikens framtid, denna landsväg över vatten?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u10	Mr President! An important project, and there is much to be welcomed in this proposal. I also welcome what it does not contain, which is to say it is excellent that this company of railways and roads and waterways was left out of it. It did raise a great deal of concern as to the direction in which Finland is being taken if they are incorporated and then they start raising money for those future owners. Well, then there's this liberalisation of taxi traffic, and that's where I'm a little skeptical. I am afraid of what this is going to mean, not least because I have been able to enjoy the free taxis in both Tallinn and Stockholm, and the experiences were not quite exhilarating, to say the least. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, although Timo Soini said a moment ago, before summer holidays, he and the Finns of Finland will unequivocally oppose the liberalisation of taxi traffic,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u11	Mr President! It seems that the Socialist Group will again be directing this group here in the Chamber... — — — — Why? How should I know? Sometimes it seems that these messages are sent from the Office to all the MPs in the whole Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u12	Mr President! This round of transport really also responds to the decline and improvement of public transport in rural areas, that it is the services that work there, and taxis in particular are also involved in this, and that is a good thing. If there were a market failure that there were too many taxis, I would ask the Minister: of course this will also be followed up for sure. And of course, competition must be fair so that one cannot drive on duty-free fuel and the other can then pay taxes on fuel. And I would say that insurance must also be in order — In Uber taxis they may not be all right, and if there is an accident, what will happen to the customer?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u15	Mr President! Now there seems to be quite a lot of support for the Minister's proposal, particularly in connection with digitalisation and the integration of journeys. But then this liberalisation of taxi services: It seems to me that the idea behind it is that there is a strong Helsinki consumer who, with a smart phone, is bidding and watching what ride he takes, and let's forget that there's that grandma in the snow in Kainuu, which is 20 km from the village centre, and wonders at what price, if at all, can find a ride to that night. It may be that the only ride available is, after all, an apostolic ride. In that sense, I would have liked to have followed the Minister: in what way are we really going to be able to ensure that it is a rural consumer? That if there is no station obligation, if there is no on-call obligation, those few entrepreneurs will surely run off to the growth center for rides.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u16	Mr President! Here I read the views of the taxicab lobby in the capital region and the order agencies on this government proposal. This is a very well-founded paper and very critical of the government's proposal. I wonder how it is possible that taximen in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area, taxi companies and representatives of charter companies take care of the countryside much more than local and Finnish MPs. At this point, it is worth thanking the actors in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. As far as this price control is concerned, how does it work? If Traf has been given such a task to intervene if taxi fares rise disproportionately, i.e. the rise differs from index development, and if a mechanism has been built to raise prices in rural areas, how can you then force a taxi to take such a ride?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u17	Mr President! It is very important that the traffic cycle is now at this stage and that traffic regulation moves into a whole new era when digitalisation is brought into the development of the transport market. It was important for the assembly that two rules should not be established for the same business activity, and the abolition of ten tonnes was an important issue. Similarly, taxis, for example, must be registered in Finland when traffic is started. It is great that the journey chain thinking goes forward with the traffic cycle: From Kärsämäki to Korkeasaari you can travel on the same ticket using the various modes of transport that are needed along the way. But when we're having a referral conversation, there's still something to be specified here. For example, law enforcement alone cannot be on Trafi's hands. The police and Customs will have to add to that. Similarly, the current obligations under Articles 29 and 30 of the Freight Transport Act to issue a licence or other certificate if requested under the supervision situation and also the right to suspend transport, if things are not in order, would require further clarification in my view.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u18	Mr President! I would like to ask about this immediately, as Mr Jokisen and Mr Kopra have already pointed out, that registration in Finland is now required: how does this differ from the car tax legislation already in place, which requires this registration of a car in permanent use? Is this an empty bubble like this what's new? When I was on board, a taximan from Helsinki said that small ones are dying, prices are rising, big ones are growing, and you can get what you want. In other words, I believe that this message was crystallized by a very strong ideological belief in the freedom of market forces, which has been seen as the liberalisation of heavy-duty cabotage or the liberalisation of rail transport, and now as a reduction in the capacity of taxis.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u19	Mr President! There is a great deal of potential in this round of transport in relation to digitalisation, the integration of travel chains, the fight against climate change, but the whole proposal must be carefully examined by the committee. For example, with regard to this taxi traffic, I think it is important to ensure that taxi services continue to operate in the sparsely populated area, and the fight against the black economy is also a key issue. After all, the taxi meter reform has just made it more effective for tax evaders to be caught, and we cannot afford to take a step backwards here. As far as public transport is concerned, I think it is important to prevent cream peeling and to ensure that the organiser of municipal and regional transport has an exclusive right. This is because it is also necessary to drive the split shifts, evening and weekend shifts and to take care of the periphery of cities. Finally, I would like to ask about accessibility, because that is the most important thing when we combine travel chains, so that people with disabilities, people with reduced mobility, elderly people can get around properly. How has that been taken into account in this traffic arch proposal?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u20	Mr President! There is a lot of good in the traffic cycle, but there is certainly a lot to be corrected in every good proposal, and I hope that Parliament will be very careful about this proposal. Perhaps the worst deficiency — unlike the representative Heinäluoma considered it a good thing — it is that at least for the time being this so-called Live or Infra Oy is missing, because we need money specifically for construction, not for the owners. This is the difference I see as an angle. Again, I agree with the view that there is still a wild system of taxi pricing in Stockholm. I don't think any of us Finns want to draw a lottery ticket at a taxi station or a post, what it costs a fool or someone else. I'm sure we'll have to think this through. As far as Minister Kyllönen's work is concerned, the current minister will have to deal with these problems of Waltti card and Matkahuolto and transport that are hand-to-hand. Finally, Mr President, I do not quite understand the logic of the Greens that the Uber system, which allows tax evasion, is so enthusiastically being supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u21	Mr President! It is great that the government is on the road to reform and that the time for stagnation in various areas is now falling behind. This reform is one of the central elements of the Government Programme and will provide efficiency. For example, as stated here in the proposal, the state, municipalities and Kela pay huge sums each year for these transport services. It is time to go through them, renew them, and that is what this is all about. The Government has now also invested a great deal in transport projects, and that is an important issue. From a rural point of view, this issue of taxi transport is obviously a challenge and must be considered very carefully in committee and explained how it works in practice. The Finns of Peru were able to meet these demands,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u22	Mr President! In this traffic cycle, as has been said, the objectives are good. Of course, the combination of different forms of travel is particularly good here. Here, by the way, is an example of what needs to be regulated: this has been done with new regulation, and it is actually a really tough restriction on freedom of trade and regulation to force road hauliers to sell tickets even to those they would not want. When we have always talked about this, whether deregulation is only a good thing, then here is an example of how regulation is needed, even if it goes beyond the private freedom of business, that the whole thing is coming. That's the point. But, Mr President, it is not really possible to find out about this basic Finnish taxi stock. In fact, Mr President, it is true that we are now being set free... It is also good to evaluate taxi traffic from time to time, but when you look at what the Finns spoke before this traffic curve, it was clearly said that the exemption of taxi permits is not accepted, and now prices are released, the number of permits is released. Many taxi drivers are asking whether this is now going to the same Greek speech and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u23	Now the chairman of the committee, Mr Jalonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u24	Mr President! First of all, I take the role of this representative of the People's Party of Finland. To the very last, the Finns of Peru adhered to this modern form of taxicab legislation. There was, of course, a bit of flexibility to reach a compromise, but not in the essentials, i.e. the taxi will not be freed. The permit must continue to exist. The numbers are rising, that's clear. Everyone with any sense can read it from that presentation, and there will also be changes to price regulation, so here will be a big revolution, big changes. For these big questions, such as the issue of freight transport, how pricing is going, how the basic obligation to place rural areas and so on is being handled, many more hours will be needed to find out what we need in practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u25	At this stage of the debate, I will give the floor to the representatives of Torniainen, Myllykoski and Vikman, and then the Minister will have the time to comment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u26	Mr President! The transport market is heavily regulated and managed by public intervention. Now the traffic arch will break the barriers, and through it traffic will be seen on a large scale as a service, precisely as a service in the future. The traffic cycle is a large entity, and it should also be seen as a big opportunity to develop modern transport services throughout Finland. During the preparatory phase of the legislative project, as has been the case here in the Chamber, there has already been a lot of discussion about this taxi traffic and the impact of this car on taxi traffic in the future, and it is good that taxi traffic is involved in this big traffic cycle. It's important that it didn't get left out. It would have weakened the position of a taxi in the future if it had been out of this. Minister Berner has found a good proposal that takes account of the most difficult points. In other words, the ten-ton limit will also remain there, which means that it is subject to authorisation. Similarly, in the future, companies and transport equipment must also be registered in Finland. And what is particularly good is that there is now a sufficient transitional period for companies and operators to be able to prepare for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u27	Mr President! I have to say that during this modest parliamentary term, I have never seen such a broken parliament — which is, of course, very nice, that the government parties may be most critical of this proposal and point out critical positions about how unfinished and how little and poorly prepared is being brought here by the government. But I have to say that the traffic cycle really gives us opportunities, and one can say that this is a bit of a continuum similar to that of the previous government, when Minister of Transport Kyllönen brought together the Kela rides, and this is what we need to bring in, that we can take into account our capacity to carry the social welfare reform. The traffic cycle must not become an obstacle to the more efficient and cost-effective management of human care services. That's the positive side. But now it's really a station.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u28	Mr Vikman was the wrong remark from the President, so I now give the floor to the Minister, three minutes from that podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u29	Mr President! The aim of the traffic cycle is to enable better services for customers, also to enable better ability to provide service to entrepreneurs and to combine passenger, goods and postal transports by combining services. Resources for Trafi are being transferred from the Ely Centre and therefore they want to ensure that sufficient resources are available. With regard to this Uber issue: Yes, that is, anyone who receives and passes this taxi permit will then be able to drive the services of various drivers. The aim is, of course, to create competition and a wide range of offers in this transmission. What this legislation obliges is that it obliges all intermediaries to open their data interface, which is unique in the world. The second is that it also obliges Uber to declare all payments it receives annually in lump sums to Traf. This will also lead to monitoring of this fight against the shadow economy. The way in which savings can be made in sparsely populated areas is, above all, by enabling a combination of rides, to provide services in such a way as to enable the entrepreneur to produce the most profitable business for himself and thus to provide the best possible service for his customer. The aim is to ensure that goods, mail and persons transported by the same equipment can be combined. This is an opportunity, and by using the digital platform, and also through the fact that this legislation is binding on all actors, it will enable demand and supply to be better met. Our aim is to ensure that we create more services and a considerable amount of traffic has been invested in the traffic cycle in order to make much more use of public transport services, including taxi services, in the future. Pricing excesses: Trafi has the right to intervene in pricing. This is also intended to provide a mechanism that genuinely enables pricing to be controlled. Today the Government has the right to control, and in the future it would be the authority. Our aim is also to ensure that travel chains are genuinely possible and that, in terms of accessibility, drivers are obliged to genuinely provide assistance in the provision of a ride, but the demand is also the one that then creates the supply and the customer of the service, who is, as a general rule, socially accessible, may require the use of the right equipment and know-how.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue the debate for about half an hour. However, if the Minister has a burning reply before then, he will certainly have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u31	Mr President! The biggest reform of the transport cycle is therefore a complete change of thinking. Until today, transport and transport have been considered mainly as a transition from one place to another, and now, in the future, traffic and mobility are becoming more and more a comprehensive service. There are many advantages and opportunities here, and I believe that this will enable us to develop and improve both the movement of people and the movement of mail, the movement of parcels in the future. Once this proposal has been prepared by a central minister, I am convinced that you are also concerned about the countryside. I would like to ask you again to confirm that when the duty to on-call is waived, in what way in Kihnio, small places around Finland will be delivered on Tuesday at 22 October on rainy evening.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u32	Mr President! The traffic cycle is an excellent reform, the benefits of which will be seen over the next few years and decades. In the same way as the opening of telecommunications networks made it possible for the whole telecluster to rise, so it is possible to do the same for transport. Mankind spends ten times as much on transport as on telecommunications. With regard to this taxi traffic, which is now the most important issue, how to act At the engagement party this rainy night at 10:00 p.m., when the only taxi in the area is already in service? Increasing supply will improve the position of people in these sparsely populated areas. We have these things in our pocket that allow us to pass on information that you need a ride. There are people in the area with a car, driver's license and time to drive. It's important to make the most of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u34	Mr President! The repeal of the old law and the creation of a new one must, of course, ensure that we have a functioning and fair market in the transport sector, and this attitude is indeed needed from the Parliament in terms of both taxi and freight transport. I am concerned that, if this law enters into force as it stands, the final result for lorries, vans and tractors will be the distortion of the transport market to the detriment of the holders of existing freight licences. I would like to ask the Minister: now that you have put in place such a provision that the definition of professional transport has such a purpose in obtaining income, and this is no longer in line with the EU regulation, because the EU regulation is based on the fact that a licence for professional transport is required when four are fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u35	Värderade Herr Talman! Jag tycker att förslaget till ny trafikbalk är balanserat och är positiv till förslaget. Digitaliseringen innebär stora vöjligheter till effectivering och en bättre användallighet. Det har redan förändrat trafikseksektorn globalt på många platter. Jag hoppas att Finland med den nya trafikbalken kan bli ett land i framkant för företag som kan utveckla lösningar inte enbart för den finska marknaden utan också för export. Interoperaboliteten är itta heisende viktig för effectivering och användarvanlighet. Jag stöder också att man modernserar vår taxilagstiftning så att den öjliggör en startare kkonkurrens, produktuveckling och effectivering, inte minst genom det digitalala. Det är bra att se branscher som en hehet och möjliggöra det nya servicekonceptet. Unga konsumenter i Helsingfors använder i dag Uber, trots att det inte är lagligt. Man använder det effectsom det är en bra produkt. Lagstiftningen måste därför reserve modern och fungera för både unga och äldre consumner. Avslutningsvis en fråga. Slovendet av pristak har i Stockholm lett till en del lurendrejare som kör till ockerpriser. Det är någonting som också oroar finländare. Hur ska man garantera att den saken inte sker i practicen bull?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u36	Mr President! On the positive side, these objectives are to increase digitalisation, to open up information and also to improve the compatibility of these travel service systems. On the other hand, the main problems relate to these declared objectives of increasing the privatisation of transport, the worst example of which is this proposal for the incorporation of transport networks. As far as deregulation is concerned, it is worth remembering that, although we certainly have a lot of unnecessary bureaucracy in this country, we also have a great deal of necessary regulation which, on the other hand, can lead to unwanted results. The main problem with this proposal is precisely that it is not clear in the case of taxis how these threats and risks will be combated. In other words, how will taxi services be provided in sparsely populated areas, how will the quality of taxi services be ensured in residential centres, and how will it be ensured that this dismantling of price regulation does not lead to over-pricing or price-traction?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u37	Mr President! I am sure that the reform of the round of traffic will bring a lot of new opportunities, but in the name of the truth it has to be said that, when I know many taxi companies, they will be asking whether all taxi-licence holders will have the same rules of the game and where the edges of the rules are. For example, the Finnish airport is a very good business card for us Finns thanks to taxis, because all taxis are of the same level and the requirements of drivers and everyone are similar. This is what I saw as a clue to that committee, that is to say, when preparing this law, let us make clear rules there. For example, a taxi entrepreneur
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u38	Ladies and gentlemen! I would not be happy to interrupt the reply, but when it goes well for more than a minute, I have to either stop or slap this jerk too hard on the table. I'm asking you to stay as close to it as possible in one minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u39	Mr President! The preparation of this traffic curve, which apparently took a long time to negotiate within the government and was massaged for quite a long time, could have been expected and left with the impression that it would be quite ready here. It is very unusual that when the minister makes his own proposal, then almost all the government parties are performing duubies, most recently Mika Niikko criticizes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u42	Mr President! During Minister Berner's time, the transport sector has become one of the government's top priorities, which is being developed and invested in: EUR 1 billion in debt relief and major reforms. It was a great thing that all modes of transport were included in this traffic cycle, and it also shows the Minister's willingness to take account of different feedback and negotiate a solution. It was a bit amusing, Mr Lindtman, to say that all you could find was that this was carefully prepared and that feedback was taken into account. That is precisely what the government wants to take into account, and now a good whole is born.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u46	Mr President! The traffic arch brings Finland to the present time. It enables new business activities specifically in traffic management and product development. According to some estimates, this liberation can create up to 18,000 new jobs. In my opinion, it is a good thing that, for example, the licensing of taxi companies should be liberalised in such a way that, once you meet certain criteria, you can try, and then this supply and demand law will determine that the price is set at the point where the transport user has a certain amount of euro to use and the supplier offers the price at which it is sold, and it will guide the traffic. In my opinion, much time has been spent here to ensure that, for example, Kainuu would be a poor supply since then, but it must be borne in mind that taxi companies in Kainuu countryside almost all have an agreement on something, either on Kela or on school transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u47	Mr President! Of course, this government proposal is a good proposal to prepare against good governance, not the first of its kind. That's why there are gaps here that even the members of the government are telling us about. This compromise proposal, which is, by the way, the second compromise proposal for the Finns on the subject, did not take place in a round of opinions, but was brought in in in a hurry, and, by the way, during the presentation, the members of the board were movedly unanimously praised. There have been no impact assessments of what will happen to consumers or operators in the sector, or there are no estimates of how this will affect Kela's or municipalities' costs in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u48	Mr President! Of course, when you listen to this debate in the Chamber, the traffic cycle, the great reform as a service, has raised questions, and the great reform always raises questions and doubts. But why is the traffic arch so important? It is therefore important that it puts the customer at the heart of the matter: since the development of transport has so far been more system-oriented, it is now the customer who is at the centre. The traffic cycle enables the development of new types of transport services and business operations. It will provide rural areas with better and more diversified services, allowing businesses to develop new transport activities and will also enable new jobs to be created. So services can be improved through this law — this is precisely an enabling law, not a restrictive law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u49	Mr President! Reference has been made here both to the experiences of Sweden and to taxi traffic at the airport. Let me give you an example of summer 92. I was at Arlanda Airport to pick up a taxi at an airport hotel about two kilometers away. There was no shortage of supply, and there was no customer at the heart of it, because there were at least 50 taxis on offer, but no one agreed to take me 2 km away to drive, because everyone was waiting for a ride to Stockholm. Only after a long compromise, perhaps the 20th taxi from that line agreed to it for a 2 km short ride, but then billed probably half of what he had billed to downtown Stockholm. Is this the kind of torque you want when you make a taxi pole and order with this reform, when pricing is released, you want to go to Finland too?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u50	Mr President! I am very pleased that Finland has the courage to look to the future and take this important step towards the exploitation of digital information and the smoothing of regulation. I am also very pleased that, after the consultation, these good changes were made to the proposal, including the fact that the rules of the game are now the same for everyone and that the black economy is being combated more effectively. It is also important that the driver must have a driving licence and that the place of business should be in Finland. These threats have been painted and talked about, among other things, grandmothers in the snow and concerns about the needs of special groups and their realization. However, I understand that, despite this change, safety and quality are to be taken care of and that the driver must, among other things, continue to have sufficient interaction and language skills and the ability to assist specific groups and ensure the safe entry and exit of the passenger. And I would have checked again: is it not the case that criminal records will also be checked more carefully in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u51	Mr President! It has been said here that better transport services will be provided in rural areas. This is something to be questioned, and quite a few representatives of the government parties have raised this same issue. I think that an extremely good goal is to achieve a functioning travel chain. But how will it be possible to ensure effective travel chains, for example, with the rail transport policy that is now being pursued on those low-speed lines? Decisions shall be taken for a year at a time. It is very difficult to think about how to achieve such smooth traffic in such a way that our decision-making takes place every year. Similarly, the question is: when demand and supply are sought to meet each other, how it genuinely meets there
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u52	Mr President! There has been a great deal of concern about the countryside in this debate. Thank you for your interest in the countryside. I myself am the representative of the outermost countryside in this Chamber, and I think that this proposal is very good. From my background, I am a rural developer in my professional activities, and we have been looking for new opportunities all the time, how we could start developing the countryside, how we could create new operating models. This round of transport offers opportunities for combining different services and also for small-scale activities — but of course everything is in accordance with the permits. This really gives us a lot of opportunities in remote areas to combine digitalisation, freight traffic, various service activities and all of these. But it is true that we need to think about how to build these controls. We in the committee and in the ministry will certainly have a debate. And finally, do you mind if the tractor comes to pick you up in the taxi?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u53	Mr President! This debate has now completely forgotten the group that this concerns. I looked at various news streams, where the Taxi Federation, among other things, has found that the traffic cycle brings reforms and that the Taxi Federation is mainly satisfied with them. You'd think that's where the very criticism comes from. In addition, the Bus Federation has estimated that opening up the market and exploiting digitalisation will improve the supply and attractiveness of bus services and will mean better services for customers, more likely lower prices and wider services. It was especially important for the people of Peru to remove the lower limit of 10,000, why would you say it now, from the fact that there is no such wild west as has been referred to here. It was important to us, and it was also important that this establishment is now in Finland and that this condition exists. So here the most important things for the Finns of Finland were preserved,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u54	Mr President! After all, the traffic cycle is, as a rule, an extremely good reform. Of course, when you go into the details, the devil lies in the details, and I would actually like to ask a question like this: There is a big event in Jyväskylä and Hankasalmi may not be able to get the taxi driver then, and yet it says here that as a rule the station obligation will remain, who is the one who will now possibly then assign this particular taxi driver there, who, of course, in the market economy would want to be there to make that money, and who will then pay for these violins? Well, I'm sure this one's got a payer when this cab driver is, poor thing, out there in Hankasalmi without a ride. I am sure that in future I would like to put a great deal of effort into this in committee, because there are quite a few major questions here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u55	Mr President! Representative Wallinheimo will answer immediately: the customer will pay for its ride in the future. The Finnish taxi system is facing a change, and this traffic cycle proposes substantial changes to the taxi system: the licence quota will be abandoned and the current regulation on the location and maximum price will be changed. This is the essential part in which the Finnish taxi system is now undergoing changes, but the Finnish taxi will be able to handle this too. An important issue here is to ensure a level playing field for existing and new operators, regardless of the mode of transport. What is good about this is the abolition of price regulation, because this makes it possible to increase prices, for example, here in the capital region during a busy period of time. The driver's earnings are rising significantly,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u56	Mr President! However, I find it a little confusing to listen to these explanations from the Finns, because yet, in the summer, Mr Soini said that it is quite clear that taxi traffic is not being liberalised, and now we have moved, once again, to this ambiguity. On the other hand, this in itself does not surprise me, because I am used to the fact that the Finns of Finland defend the increase in the gas tax and also put the garages in the energy certificate. I understand that this is what it is now, but I would like to see a message of clarity given, then we should not go into this or at least explain why this has happened again. On the other hand, I hope, Mr President, that even the taxi drivers will pick up Mr Kankaanniemi, but they may be very surprised at these contradictory speeches. I hope that the concerns that have been expressed about this bill will now be taken seriously. President! It was said that a taxi driver found that it was available, and a lot of people today are asking where it could be cancelled.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u57	President! Furthermore, the requirement of the Finns of Peru remains subject to authorisation. In addition, this bill will enable reforms in the taxi field, as the taxi companies themselves have wanted. But I am surprised, both in this debate and in the legislative proposal, that there has been no talk of road safety even in the middle of the digitalization drug. No matter what time it takes, everything must be about road safety. During the last period, legislation was reformed so that people over 70 years of age could operate in professional transport. Does the Minister have any information on the extent to which this possibility is being used and whether it has had a negative impact on road safety? There is a particular fear of what is happening in heavy traffic and in bus and coach transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u58	Mr President! Minister Berner! Although I am not in favour of this proposal overall, I do think that the traffic curve is actually a necessary proposal. I welcome this. I myself, as a great friend of digital services and applications, have not been able to use Uber, because as a left-winger I do not accept non-payment of taxes. But the main concern that has emerged in this debate is to secure taxi traffic in sparsely populated areas. They said, "How do you like it when you're in Kihnio?"
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u59	As has just been agreed, this will be over, and I will now give the floor to Mr Ala-Nissila.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u60	Mr President! This is indeed a major reform, a historic reform, and you can see from the debate that the content of this reform does not quite open up in the back seat of a taxi when reading the Democratic Journal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u61	Mr President! In this case of taxis, it has been said that there is now an opportunity, among other things, to bring prices down. However, this ensures that: The Finnish Transport Safety Agency can intervene if prices go up. Which one is this? That prices are going down or that prices are going up? In addition, Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that although Mr Vartia has said here that we have smartphones in our pockets and can order them then and they can get us that taxi, at least my grandmother can't get it to order that taxi. First of all, his eyesight is so bad that he can't see. Second, he doesn't know how to use a smartphone. Third, he doesn't even own a smartphone. But here, of course, is a little tip for all of us: all our dear old people have smartphones for Christmas. A couple of years is time to teach them how to use and then to compete for taxis. Where is humanity in this matter? I understand that the people of Helsinki can do this, even the Vaseans, but the old people can't.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u62	Mr President! One important factor here is, of course, these Kela rides, and taxis have already met us so that we can combine these rides. This digitalisation will open up the possibility of transporting more customers together. I would say that this is a kind of traffic kiky agreement, in the sense that this would be cheaper for Kela. The second thing is, of course, school rides too. This digitalisation and this service system can really combine rides. The second point is, of course, that this place of employment — I asked the Minister — is the main place of employment, but of course the taxi can go elsewhere and drive. But how can people in Juupajo then — even the name Kihniö was used here — make sure that people can trust that the taxi is there? And, indeed, The Transport Safety Agency must see where the prices are, then, that we are not going to end up like Sweden, that it is a wild system. I also think it is important to follow up so that customers can be satisfied. And one more thing: taxis have a lot of insurance. They pay a lot of insurance, almost ten grand a year. Uber taxis don't pay.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u64	I give the floor to Mr Henriksson and Mr Häkkänen, and then to the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u65	Mr President! I came late to this session because today there were no traffic connections. Flights from Pietarsaari and Kokkola were cancelled, and then also VR's train from Seinäjoki to Helsinki was an hour late, so we need a new traffic curve and we need a system that can also serve us citizens when this kind of situation, for example, comes up. But, Mr President, I would have liked to have heard the Minister open a little bit of what this digitalisation is going to mean in practice. Have we already found a concrete electronic solution, or is it quite open? At least this package now includes the abolition of taxi quotas and price regulation, which is not a digital activity; it is quite analogue. It would be good if you could open this digitalization one more time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u66	Mr President! It is also good to remember a slightly bigger picture of what this whole traffic cycle is related to. Today, the IMF last reminded us that the very fate of Finland's economic success is to increase productivity in the private and public sectors. In particular, economic research institutes have been rushing Finland for many years now to increase productivity and competition in those large spending areas, the social welfare sector, housing, retail trade and also here in the transport sector. This traffic cycle is a good example of this: when households spend around 17% on mobility, businesses account for about 13% and there are more than one billion public-supported rides, this traffic cycle is absolutely essential. This is primarily good because the interfaces between digitalisation and the exploitation of new technologies are now being fully opened to this. This should be done in many other sectors in Finland. But, above all, there will be savings, employment effects, and what is the biggest, there will be user-driven service
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u67	By way of derogation from what has already been said, I would like to speak to the group leader, Mr Lindtman, and then the Minister will reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u68	Mr President! I was excited about this comment by Mr Alatalo, which, though, reminded me that he had now left it for the Democrat on the bench of a taxi. This insurance issue is one, but there is another issue that has not come up in this debate. As I said earlier, the objectives of this traffic cycle are good, the opening of interfaces is good, the integration of travel chains is good. Of course, it would have been missing from this taxi traffic that this ten-ton limit would have remained. But there is one thing that has not been discussed: This tax deduction for the purchase of taxi drivers' car is EUR 5000. Minister, what will happen to him? Will it continue to be available to all taxi drivers, and will it receive as many taxis as they just want to set up? What happens to this tax deduction, it's 5000 euros per taxi? Will it be all, or will there be a restriction, or will it be completely removed? This is a very important question, which is coming up against us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u70	Now to the Minister from the floor for 4 minutes, and then to a group of perhaps one, at most two replies, and then to a normal list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u71	Mr President, ärade talman! Skärgårdstrafiken kommer att tas upp i nasta fas av beredandet av trafikbalken, och där kommer vi också att strava till att säkra att erbjudandet komper att kunna stärkas. Priset kommer att måsta ges på förhand i alla tjänster.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u72	Mr President! The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has been very concerned about the fact that the text of the Government's proposal mentions that market-based transport is a priority and public complementary. There is experience of this in ely centres, for example, where the model has shown its sustainability in expensive competitions and short contract periods. My second point relates to the fact that words were mentioned in the debate to combat the shadow economy. The police government has specifically noted that there are no estimates of the fight against the shadow economy in this proposal at all. Is there a possibility there's going to be a fix on this? And with regard to Mr Lindtman's question, what about the reduction of 5000 for the purchase of taxi cars?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u73	Mr President! One of the best features of the traffic cycle is the possibility to increase the efficiency of the use of traffic money by the public sector, i.e. the state, municipalities and also Kela. In the future, transport services could be combined and used in a more diverse and efficient way, and what would then be conducive to significant savings in public spending. I would ask the Minister: has it been possible so far to identify what forms of efficiency or saving in euros could be achieved, for example, at municipal level or just for every citizen?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u74	Mr President! The traffic arch contains such things that worry above all from the point of view of lawfulness. The supervision of law and cabotage traffic in the traffic cycle is directed to Traf. This raises such questions as whether, firstly, Trafi's resources are sufficient and, secondly, whether it is at least sufficient to monitor the legality of transport operations and also to take into account road safety issues in its role. I would like to ask the question: should this law and the monitoring of cabotage and road safety not fall within the remit of the authorities, the police and Customs, and should we not reserve sufficient resources to do so and ensure that the black economy is not created with traffic and does not increase in Finland and that the competent authorities watch and watch the legality of our transport?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u75	Mr President! The traffic cycle is a very big step in the future, and I believe that everyone is happy with it in itself. This future major development of public transport, the development of the entire transport sector is possible, and it is great that there is a taxi in it. It was also at some point going away, and then it would have been a fairly big disaster. Indeed, in this taxi ride, it is essential that the permit remains. The requirement for authorisation will continue and that is the key issue. Here, as I did in my first speech, there are many details that need to be clarified, and one of them is, for example, that principal place of employment and what it is. Further clarification: Uber is illegal now, and if it changes its operating model completely, then it will get involved in this activity. But it's going to have to change its course of action.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u76	Mr President! Here some representatives, at least Mr Plant and now Mr Jalonen, drew attention to the operation of these services. The most well-known are Lyft and Uber, of which at least one is currently operating illegally in Finland. It is now worth noting that this regulation will allow these operators to operate on the Finnish market, but under the same conditions and conditions as other taxi and ride service providers. It is also worth drawing attention to the fact that the regulation that we are now doing for these services is quite liberal compared to what we currently have in the world. In California, as an example, the regulation of ride-sharing services is much stricter than what we are now regulating. Good in these new inventions is the way to bill and monitor the route. I would like to ask the Minister whether there has already been an agreement on interfaces with the tax authority.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u77	Mr President! It is a big and important project, but there are a lot of needs in this debate that should be taken into account in the committee, especially the fact that in future the impact of the law will be monitored and ready for changes. I would like to thank the Minister for raising this issue of accessibility and for considering it important. I therefore hope that the committee will take an in-depth look at this. At the moment, not all public transport equipment is accessible, and now that different new options are combined into different travel paths, it is all the more important to draw attention to this fact that everyone can certainly have access to work, hobbies, travel, can be involved in this society. That is also what the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities requires of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u78	Mr President! There is a need for a round of traffic, and a good example can be seen of bus and coach transport, which in the past had a hard time when the subsidised transport stopped, but bus and coach transport took a new course and has developed significantly in that role. A lot has been said here about these taxis and the problems that may arise there. One, of course, is this security. And now that perhaps more of the joke has been said about the use of these mopeds in taxis, I would ask the Minister whether it is possible to also pay attention to these safety regulations. It is clear, of course, that regulations in the transport of people with disabilities and school rides already require a certain type of equipment for taxis, but what about these other vehicles that are used?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u79	Mr President! I am the Chairman of the Memory Federation and, in this role, I am very concerned about the weakening and elimination of these professional qualifications. A significant proportion of taxi customers, for example, are limited in function and need special services and assistance. For example, people with memory disorders or many other vulnerable citizens are unable to compete and evaluate the service provider and the quality of their operations or to give feedback to the entrepreneur if something went wrong during transport. And ex-post controls do not help, but every driver should have skills and skills to ensure that this safe travel is carried out. Yes, I have a real concern about this and I ask the Minister how the draft law has taken account of these security aspects of the special groups, because the transport of these persons must have special knowledge, special skills, special expertise.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u80	Mr President! With Congressman Sem, I'm sure we'll share the hope that the mobile police will return. I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that we Finns included the most important threshold questions, such as maintaining the availability of permits for taxis and the need for companies to be registered in Finland. You also took seriously our concern that we should not repeat Sweden's mistakes. I would also like to ask the Minister: let us ensure that small business does not die of bigger feet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u81	I will give the floor to Mr Eestilä and Mrs Myllykoski, then to the Minister, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u82	Mr President! The Finnish taxi is known for its reliability and safety, and one of the safety elements is, of course, that the price is standardised and predetermined. I would like to ask the Minister what happens to this safety issue when, in future, the regulation only imposes a maximum rate — of course, even now, this is the way in which the indicators are generally set. What happens to this question in the future when customers may be in a variety of situations and then have to negotiate on what rate to take? Has it been said that there is someone from the Taxi Federation or any other recommendation that you can directly ask if you are driving a recommendation, and if the driver says that you are driving, then you no longer have to negotiate?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u83	Mr President! I am not going to argue with the Minister, but this does not necessarily create freedom of choice and customer contacts. Now we have seen the development where people through Kela no longer receive the services of a familiar driver, but they are guided by a third party. This is where Mrs Hautala raised a very important issue, and that is security. This is one form of public service transport with certain security conditions, and insurance must be in order. It is very important to see what the representative also sees. Eestilä, in his speech, pointed out: on rainy day in Helsinki there is an auction, that who pays $100 to get on board? So are there any provisions to this effect that excessive starting prices cannot be requested at the pole? And now that this debate has taken place, I have to say to the chairman of my constituency's fundamental Finnish committee that the Finns of Peru did it for me at this point, that there were more than three wheels, but they were driving two wheels.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u84	Minister Berner, three minutes from the podium.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u85	Mr President! With the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, the traffic cycle has been reviewed and PSA protection remains in line with the EU Regulation in this proposal. It also means that an exclusive right can still be granted by the municipality if it so wishes. An assessment of the fight against the shadow economy has been carried out in respect of the traffic cycle. What kind of savings a traffic cycle could generate: Our conservative calculations have estimated EUR 70 million per year. Kela has estimated savings to be higher, but I do not want to speak on behalf of Kela here. Insurance, safety and special services are still very important parts of the traffic cycle, but overall the requirements for qualifications have been tightened in this respect. After all, the car now requires a driver to drive, but it also requires a licence from an entrepreneur. What is being sought in the traffic cycle is that the entrepreneur has the responsibility of the company for customer service and also its staff and that drivers are responsible for the service and are capable of appropriate interaction and service that takes into account special groups. As regards taxation, taxi transport has been strictly restricted to passenger cars, with the tax issue typically being examined on a vehicle-by-vehicle basis. In the future there will be much more looseness in the type of equipment that is being driven, and that also means that this customer has a lot of opportunities to influence the kind of ride he is ready to take. The issue of taxation is likely to be more and more addressed in the future in terms of emission reduction targets than in terms of equipment. In this context, there will be no changes to the tax relief for taxis and there will be no changes. Mr Myllykoski is quite right, there is a lot more looseness in customer service when, so to speak, own money makes the ride and the service is used than when it is organised by society, and it is much more difficult to influence who the driver necessarily is involved in it. There has also been a debate here on pricing. With regard to Swedish pricing, I would like to say that Swedish taxi services have been liberalised in 1996, and since then there have also been many changes in Sweden. Mobile competence and communication have improved, and also in the traffic cycle the lessons learned in Sweden have been taken into account. We have had a debate with the Swedish authorities, the Ministry of Justice and the consumer protection authorities when the traffic curve has been prepared. Twenty years later, we have the advantage that we can make use of a whole range of digital services and that we can also ensure that the price is always known to the consumer in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u86	Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u87	Mr President! We have received the Government's 250-page traffic arch presentation to the Chamber for a referral debate, and the debate has been rather ghastly in the debate. The basic idea of the traffic cycle for the utilisation of digitalisation and open interfaces offers great opportunities for Finland. At best, it makes it possible to make smarter and more efficient use of transport services. All of this will benefit people in the form of more flexible and better transport services. The opening up of information interfaces to create new transport services and travel chains is broadly to be welcomed and supports the development of digitalisation. But with regard to the details, as already stated in the debate, the government’s recent proposal for a traffic curve raises major questions, especially in the taxi sector. The original round of traffic proposal contained many serious pitfalls in the sector, which have now been avoided, even though taxi operations are being liberalised in an unprecedented way during this government. During spring and summer, we were able to read about many different media in the speeches of the Chairman of the Finnish People's Party, how the Finns of Finland never approve of the liberalisation of taxi traffic. Minister Soini sends his greetings to Minister Berner, among others, in the Finnish News on 18 April: "The fundamental Finns are unequivocally opposed to the release of taxi licenses." Similar outputs came from inside the Board, at least by the Chairman of the Finnish Parliament Group Sampo Terho and the Chairman of the Transport and Communications Committee Jalose. But what happened? Taxi traffic will be liberalised, and some current minister might say here: how dare you and indeed dare you. Fortunately, from the point of view of the operators in the taxi sector, this final proposal does not at least contain the EUR 10000 wild card previously envisaged, which would have allowed passenger and freight transport to take place without authorisation for that amount. Mr President! However, the proposal continues to face problems and challenges. The liberalisation of taxi regulation is challenging the current players. That is why the transitional period contained in the proposal is absolutely necessary, and I thank you for that. Having talked to operators in the sector, their real fear is that, with the reform, a number of large companies will be able to buy smaller operators out of the market with a strong focus on taxiing in the future. The creation of regional taxi monopolies would reverse the basic idea of the traffic cycle and raise prices significantly. That is why we must be able to prevent them from being born. Outside the busiest times in rural areas, taxis are likely to be considerably less on call in the future and it may be difficult to get a taxi. By the way, taxis are more interested in municipal centres with more customers. It must be remembered that services have also been strongly centralised. For example, childbirths run farther and farther. Getting out of the countryside in the middle of the night may be very difficult in the future if a local taxi is not available or that one taxi is already on its way somewhere else. As far as future taxi services are concerned, I feel that we representatives are now facing a major challenge in defining the over-pricing of taxi services mentioned in the car bill. A deviation from the maximum price would require a separate agreement, the certification of which is the responsibility of the service provider. If anyone does, then this is one point for the taxi sector, which keeps the Committee on Transport and Communications on a special note around the table. By law, Trafi must be genuinely and effectively able to intervene in prices above the pain limit. This was also mentioned in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice. Personally, I do not want a situation similar to that in Sweden: unless you check the price policy in advance and grab the first taxi, you can at worst say goodbye to the entire holiday budget. I think that, in the end, the government model of taxi operations can only work well in practice if a genuine competitive situation can be created in the sector. It is quite surprising, in itself, that the experience of liberalisation in other European countries shows a sharp rise in taxi fares and not the other way around. It remains to be seen how the reform will eventually succeed in creating new income for entrepreneurs in Finland, while, among other things, the cost structure of taxis will remain fairly unchanged. Mr President! The Transport Cycle’s consultation also included comments on the overall lack of impact assessments. The market has not taken into account the different conditions in Finland in relation to the price and availability factors of services in urban areas and quieter rural areas. The dismantling of standards and regulations is one of the top priorities of the sitting government, The removal of the requirement for a permit for the carriage of goods from vans will increase the informal economy if no good reputation, solvency and effective establishment are required for the providers of the carriage of vans in Finland. Regulation favouring smaller fleets would increase the number of vehicles in traffic, as well as emissions. This was stated in their opinions by both the ACP and the SKAL. Mr President! To this end, and as far as follow-up measures are concerned: the government as a whole must also consider concrete ways of combating the black economy in the transport sector, so that its objectives of genuine competition and reductions in emissions from transport can be achieved. Among other things, the challenges and shortcomings I have mentioned above in committee work need to be largely clarified. Power is in this house. If understanding grows during the course of the proceedings, hopefully it will also be used. I was confused at the debat, but I was pleased to find that several representatives of the government party needed clarifications on this law already at this stage of the referral process, so it is certainly easy to get those changes through the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u88	Mr President! Minister Berner must have been on board a taxi many times, but now the taxis are on board with Minister Berner, even in a cold one. Not much has been heard in the preparation of the government's proposal, no matter how well-founded they have been. Why leave in such a radical way to change the working system? In Sweden, expensive scholarships have been paid, as has been said many times, when it has managed to combine all the bad aspects of deregulation: the deterioration of equipment, the increase in the black economy and the rise in prices. I am pleased to note that the position of the tax administration and charter agencies in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area is far more concerned about rural areas than is the case with the central representatives of the provinces or, at least, in their speeches, the people of Finland who defend small people. I never thought that Mrs Maijala and I would live in the same municipality, so a different world she seems to be following. The tax authorities in the capital region pay attention to many of the pains that also apply in Lapland. The lobbying of the taxi industry, but also taxi drivers from the north to the south, make consistent criticisms of the government's plans. As a major consumer of taxi services, I too agree with the criticisms made. Mr President! It is not only about taxi drivers and entrepreneurs, but also about the availability of services and customers, especially children, the elderly and those who need special help because of the operating restrictions. Therefore, the abolition of training and testing requirements for taxi drivers is undoubtedly a risk game. Ex post controls always come late and only when the problem has already arisen. At the same time, the service level requirements and licensing practices of entrepreneurs will be liberalised, resulting in more liberally selected entrepreneurs using selected drivers, and the result will be that a new low-paid labour market will be created and will not at least increase the quality of service. The Government's proposal dismantles the current station regulation and the on-call obligation. However, they have secure access to taxi services throughout the country. First of all, the last services of the most remote villages of sparsely populated municipalities fall under threat. There a familiar taximan has been responsible for much more than driving a car, and I have also noticed here in the city, Helsinki, that the only closer human contact of many elderly people can be the familiar taximan. The supervisory authority, Trafi, will be given the opportunity to intervene in pricing if prices rise faster than consumer prices. The Government argues that consumer prices are falling but is prepared to rise. It is neither very credible nor consistent. This partial regulation does include the fact that, if there are roofs of this kind, it can be said again and again that by what means a minister or authority forces a taxi to take its unprofitable ride no matter how far away. Mr President! The traffic curve is already at the root of the questions. The first condition for each developing region is good transport connections. The real possibility of moving after services and jobs, when they are very often farther and farther away, makes a lot of difference. Even now, the use of your own car is mandatory for many who cannot really afford it, and the total cost of paying for motorists is rising. Low-wage or part-time workers, all unemployed, high-skilled or even small retired people cannot afford to change it over 20 years old It's just the joy the government wants to get into a hybrid car. There's supposed to be options, but there's just no options. All the former is not automatically bad, but if ideology directs a major change, regardless of the price to be paid, the mark can be disastrous. The price is paid by honest entrepreneurs as much as by taxi companies. It is worth remembering what has happened in cabotage, for example. But the surest person to pay the bill is the client.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u89	Mr President! We are now having a referral debate on the government's proposal for the first traffic cycle. This is a wide-ranging package of legislation, which aims to deregulate regulation, liberalise the transport sector for taxis, buses and vans, and promote various digital solutions. The pipeline is then coming into traffic cycle 2 and 3, of which the Government will submit proposals to Parliament later. In the preparation of this transport bar proposal, there has been a dialogue between the government parties and, of course, a wide-ranging consultation. On the basis of these, the performance does not correspond to the original draft presented in the spring, but it has been rewritten and many paragraphs rewritten. For example, the proposal to allow the taxi and transport business up to EUR 10000, which was included in the original proposal, has now been deleted without any authorisation or tax liability. Mr President! The basic ideas and objectives of the transport cycle are good and worthwhile. With the opportunities opened up by this new legislation, the Finnish transport market also has the opportunity to develop to meet the new type of demand today and the future. In other areas, the objectives of the transport cycle are to make the information on the transport market fully digital, transparent and interoperable. This will give customers new services and companies new business opportunities. The authorisation system is to be streamlined, thus facilitating entry into the market. At the same time, regulation will be introduced so that new ride-sharing services can also function as part of our transport system. The basic idea behind the Government is that, with the reform measures, Finland is a world-wide pioneer in the transport sector. It should be noted that at the moment the world is ahead of us in many places. Legislation alone is not enough, there is also a need for factors, but it is now possible to do so. When it comes to travel chains, digitalisation, the opening of interfaces and MaaS, what do these mean? For example, when a person wants to travel from home in Lappeenranta to Pori, FinlandAreena does not need to buy train or flight tickets separately, think about the bus schedule and occasionally wave a taxi from the corner of the street. All travel volumes can be booked and paid in one throw and then only enjoy travel without worrying about tickets and other things when changing means of transport along the way. And when the job is done correctly, the tax office will also be informed directly about these purchases and even entrepreneurs will not have to go through the special records and receipts when the information is given to society. Mr President! Before the presentation, a significant part of the debate on the traffic cycle concerned the organisation of taxi services and changes to the taxi system. It is true that the taxi industry is going to change. Three major changes in taxi traffic are the abolition of the number of taxi licenses, the liberalisation of pricing and the abolition of the obligation to place of employment. These changes are major and efforts are being made to limit their potential adverse effects by different types of framework conditions. These marginal conditions include, for example, the registration requirement for taxi vehicles in Finland, the requirement for the place of business in Finland, Trafi's right to intervene in pricing in the event of problems, the driver must still have a driving licence, the taxi company or the entrepreneur must still have a taxi licence and certain requirements are also imposed on the driver. Although the transport market is being reformed, the carpet cannot be pulled from under existing taxis and transport companies. Therefore, the framework conditions described above and others also aim to safeguard the operating conditions of existing companies. The impact of the legislation will be monitored and, if necessary, maladministration will be addressed. In the case of so-called van or light transport, regulation is also to be dismantled. In the future, a person who carries less than 3.5 tonnes of cars does not have to take a compulsory entrepreneurial course. There is no separate application process, but you can obtain a permit when you register as an entrepreneur of light transport. This registration should be accompanied by background checks to ensure that the financial and accountability of the data subjects are in order and at the required level. The question could still be asked as to whether registration should be called a permit. In future, vans must also be registered in Finland. In particular, the proposal removes Articles 29, 30 and 32 of the Freight Transport Act, which regulate the authority of the police to supervise transport and impose sanctions. This includes, among other things, the obligation to present transport documents and other documents, the right of the police to impose fines for deficiencies in transport and so on. According to the motion, Trafi would have to monitor these matters in the future. However, it may not have organisations for this purpose. This is therefore a challenging point in the car bill. The issue of the fight against the shadow economy is important and this should be taken into consideration in committee. Mr President! Big changes and good things rarely come about by themselves or easily. The Transport Code proposal must now be dealt with by Parliament, and Parliament must use its powers to ensure that the final legislative package is in line with the objectives set, taking into account the issues raised above and without causing unnecessary harm or inconvenience to anyone.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u90	Mr President! As I said in the debate, we have a lot of citizens who are unable to compete or assess the quality of the service provider or the quality of the activity, and I mentioned those who are suffering from memory sickness as an example. Qualification requires training, and, for example, memory associations and other organisations have trained taxi drivers to meet and help these special groups during taxi courses. If education and supervision are left to the entrepreneur alone, then I am not quite sure how to ensure professional skills. I hope that this matter will be carefully looked at in committee, because I am not convinced at this stage, on the basis of the Minister's reply, how this is to be implemented and ensured. People who need special assistance and support are also not able to travel on any vehicle, and this aspect must also be ensured in the committee. Mr President! When attention has been consciously paid to the safe travel of special groups, for example, in these taxi courses, the situation in which a person with a memory disorder has been left standing alone on the street has decreased considerably, and I am convinced that this has partly been due to the fact that attention has also been paid to this issue in these trainings. Taxi drivers have also taken an active interest in informing the authorities if they see, for example, an elderly person wandering around the city at night. They are a very important professional group that can make these observations. As I said, these changes have taken place at least in part thanks to integrated training. Finally, Mr President, I also have concerns about the quality of school transport, because in the transport of children, the driver is always an important educator, so he always has the role of educator, and adequate and equal education has also been an important quality factor in the transport of children.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u91	Mr President! I will start with what good is the first part of the traffic cycle in this government proposal. The digitisation of traffic data and the opening up of digital information to everyone on the basis of open data is to be welcomed, and industry policy can even say that it represents a radical approach to equality. The availability of information opens up an endless number of opportunities in the digital age to develop new business models and applications. There is also support for the objective of integrated ticket and other travel services systems. For the passenger, moving from one mode of transport to another and between different service providers on the same ticket is absolutely life-saving. The same applies to information received centrally, for example on timetables and different travel options. Digitalisation of transport can also bring new solutions to services in sparsely populated areas, for example. Instead of traditional scheduled transport, it is possible to create new models, for example in order and call traffic, where transport services are organised on a need-based basis. The way in which this will now be promoted, for example, to replace taxi services, was unclear to me. The promotion of digitalisation was already launched when Merja Kyllönen was Minister of Transport, which created conditions for the exploitation of digitalisation, including the Ministry's report on open data and the Minister's report on open data. An intelligent transport strategy prepared during Kyllönen's period. As far as the transport network company is concerned, the Left Alliance is in favour of increasing the long-term sustainability of transport policy and increasing the volume of transport infrastructure investment. However, we do not believe that the form of company is the right way to do this. Mr President! What, then, are the main problems in the first part of the traffic cycle? In the case of taxis, it is likely that the abolition of price and on-call obligations will lead to higher taxi prices, especially in peak times, when the number of users is highest. The abolition of price regulation also means that taxi drivers and customers will have to agree on the price before the trip. It increases the driver’s work, may pose risks to safety at work, and may also increase the risk of various price drawbacks. In the quietest times, the fall in prices threatens to lower the income of drivers, and the drop in on-call duty makes it more difficult to get a taxi in sparsely populated areas. The traffic cycle does not indicate how these threats are to be combated. However, taxi permits are only one part of the whole in the traffic cycle. By far the biggest problem with the government's plans is these declarations of intent to increase the privatisation of transport. One example of efforts is the plans for the integration of transport networks. This would mean a significant reduction in democracy and political guidance compared to the current situation, and the form of company would also facilitate the sale of transport networks in the future. In our opinion, transport policy in general should also pay more attention to reducing emissions and improving transport in a more ecological way. In Finland it is possible to achieve large emission reductions through the transport sector. This requires both the renewal of the fleet of cars for electricity and biofuels-based vehicles, the development of transport infrastructure, for example, to increase charging points for electric cars, and the development of public transport in all major urban centres. The Left Alliance has suggested that a reform of the overall taxation of transport should be initiated with a view to steering the movement towards a more ecological direction. Mr President! With regard to transport policy, the Left Alliance believes that progress should be made by promoting the objectives of the transport cycle in terms of the digitalisation of transport, greater compatibility of services and the opening-up of information. We are in favour of increasing the volume of funding for transport networks and routes and infrastructure investments, but not of integrating transport networks. We want to invest in VR’s position in ownership policy by reviewing the income requirements and by concluding long-term contracts in relation to the obligation and purchase traffic. As far as taxi regulation is concerned, we will continue to ensure the territorial coverage of taxi services and the predictability and reasonableness of prices.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u92	Mr President! There has been a lively debate today on the traffic cycle, and I believe that we in that committee have had good lunches here in the Chamber. Thank you to all you representatives who have been actively involved in the debate. The reform of transport policy is certainly very welcome and important for all of us. The exploitation of digitalisation and the coordination of ticketing systems will facilitate the use of public transport. In the context of these truly major reforms, we must always wonder whether they will achieve their original objectives, whether they will treat people equally and what other effects decisions will have. The Left Alliance wants to develop public transport by investing in the railways and transfer freight traffic to the railways. Road transport must promote market access for cars using electricity and biofuels. The development of transport infrastructure is long-term work and is best done by public ownership. Transport safety and the reduction of climate emissions are all a and o. Mr President! As I have already said in the debate, I am particularly concerned about the abolition of the price and quantity regulation of taxi licences. It can indeed have unpredictable effects. In all probability, large cities will benefit in such a way that customers’ payments will then fall as a result of price competition when there is supply, but then in sparsely populated areas the upward pressure on prices will certainly be essential. I do not believe that this treats people throughout Finland equally. It is hard to believe that a centre-run government is doing this kind of centralisation policy. Are we now creating a new vending machine for taxis? Services are all the time focusing on growth centres, which increases the need for taxi rides as hospitals, for example, are further away from people. According to Minister Berner, the reform seeks savings, but whose savings? Will the price tag for expensive taxi rides be paid by municipalities or customers? In the case of school rides, for example, the costs of municipalities are also threatening to rise to the clouds. Fortunately, this artificial threshold of EUR 10000 for small-scale activities was removed from this bill after the consultation. I think it would have been very harmful to the fight against the shadow economy. Now, however, I am concerned about whether we are creating a new blind spot for package transport when registration alone is enough. The grey economy is already a major problem and we should now look for all the means to combat it. Mr President! Now that regulation is being dismantled with a heavy hand, the emphasis is placed on ex post controls. What is Trafi’s responsibility and workload? How does price control take place? In addition, can Trafi adequately monitor customer safety and satisfaction? Reducing drivers' qualifications is a cause for concern, as road safety and the skills of workers must continue to be top-notch. In particular, it is very important that the driver is competent and that the equipment is appropriate, as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen pointed out in his own speech. Mr President! The next phase of this traffic cycle will focus on the most relevant issues. The possible incorporation of the transport network and the financing model for transport investment will largely determine the success of the reform. I therefore look forward to the preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u93	Mr President! The Finnish transport policy is being reformed for future needs. Many people in this Chamber have been afraid that this reform will take away the transport services of the countryside. Well, actually, there are hardly any transport services in rural areas anymore. There are municipalities in Lapland where taxis can't even be filled. For the permissions that would be there, there is no willingness. If we wait for people in the countryside to drive taxis, I don’t know who can afford to drive taxis there unless someone else pays for it. But no ordinary person in the countryside can order a taxi today. It is a form of transport for rich and privileged people. Instead, what is being pursued by the traffic cycle is that the rural area will receive the services — the services which unfortunately do not exist there at the moment. We have consistently been in such a spiral that rural services have been reduced and reduced, but we are now trying to think in another way: how to create new services there. Mr President! It is therefore absolutely essential that all the opportunities that technology gives us today can be fully mobilised. It makes little sense for the traveler to look at bus timetables and train timetables and air travel schedules from different places. It is essential that they are brought into the same application, under the same function. Efforts are being made to reform these travel chains. There has already been much talk of digitalisation here, and I would like to thank the opposition for recognising the value of what the digitalising world brings us, and how we must make the most of it. I believe that in the future the modes of transport will be so different that we may not be able to think about it today. We talk a lot about taxis in this debate, too, but this reform also seeks to shape the emergence of new and different modes of transport, not just taxis. So it is time to put that customer in the centre, the service user in the centre, and leave the system a little behind. But this does not, of course, eliminate the fact that the public authorities are still very much concerned about the fact that children get to school, that there are subsidised service rides for the elderly, that Kela pays a share of it. This is not, however, the intention of trying to get savings there, but rather to create new solutions. Mr President! Finland is living in a very difficult economic situation, and I do not think it is insignificant that thousands of new jobs should be sought in this traffic cycle. Of course, estimates are difficult to make, but it has been calculated that up to 5,700 new jobs could be created by 20 C.E. I do not think we should miss out on any opportunities for new jobs in this country. However, I am not in any way naive about the fact that, of course, the big reforms always scare and involve a variety of duubies. Of course, I myself was thinking about the question of taxis, which has already been covered from many points of view, that what happens in those areas where there is no automatic market economy. It is therefore necessary for Trafi to be able to intervene if prices start to rise, so that they do not get out of hand. And it is important that there is still regulation. Taxes must be paid to Finland, must be professional, the driver must have no criminal background, must be sound and many other things. Taxis are still on duty, and they still have a place of employment obligation, which is the main requirement. Mr President! At the end of the day, I would like to raise the issue that quite rarely Finland is spoken of in international media. However, the traffic cycle was one of the things that raised perhaps one of the most prestigious international economic journals, namely The Economist, in his previous issue, brought up a very diverse article about the traffic cycle, and at least the feedback was positive. This is an historic and very ambitious project.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u94	Mr President! I'm a taximan's son and I'm almost a hero myself. My father was driving. In Kiiminkijolaakso taxi rides to dances, he drove Kela rides, schoolchildren, he delivered mail, delivered goods, that is exactly what is being pursued. My father only had a landline, but now digitalization is helping, and in that sense I am very much in favour of this roundabout performance. I think a lot of other people are in favour of it. Finland is a large country. We want to keep the whole country inhabited. Unfortunately, it was only during the previous government that we ran out of more than 200 bus shifts in Finland because the PSA regulation was made in that way. I don't think there's gonna be any more time for us to have a bus there half empty, just a few customers. That's why we need digital leaps and order traffic. It is important that people and goods can travel quickly, cheaply, safely and comprehensively throughout Finland. The elderly must have access to trade and welfare services, and those who do not own a car must be provided with access conditions. When the state has to make savings decisions, it has been noticed, among other things, that Kela rides are a large item of expenditure, and, of course, the services and equality of citizens are at stake. When you want some kind of kiky contract for Kela rides, taxis have been ready for it. At least the answer has come from that taxi field to combine those rides and also to save the cost of society. Moving is the other side of the coin of centralization. In the past, even in previous governments, this concentration took place in relation to schools — which is when transport costs always increase — and now, certainly, when health services are centralised, transport costs increase again. So it is a political choice. On the transport side, we will have to pay for what we save elsewhere. The objective of the reform is to increase choice, not only for users of transport services but also for entrepreneurs in the sector. Companies have the freedom to choose between operating methods, competitive edge and equipment. Digitalization really enables order traffic and a whole new kind of entrepreneurship. We can create new investments and new jobs. Mr President! The traffic cycle will make life easier as the regulatory burden becomes lighter and the administrative burden decreases. This will also reduce costs for companies. However, it is clear that regulation and comprehensive insurance are needed to ensure the safety of transport services and customers. It was a good thing that a complete proposal for taxis was made out of the traffic cycle after the statements: the regulation was relaxed and the proposal that had been taken up by many taxi entrepreneurs has been corrected. The quota for taxi licences will be abolished, i.e. there may be more taxis in the future, but competition will not be freed from the wild: the concession will continue and Trafi will supervise taxi companies and drivers. The so-called ten-ton taxi drivers were dismantled, and this is already important for road safety. The main place of employment remains. Even though a taxi that holds its position in Juupajo can also drive on the side of the neighbouring community as a result of this reform. It is important that taxis also have their place of residence in Finland. Mr President! However, competition must be fair. It cannot be that minibuses drive on duty-free fuel and taxis do not. In that sense, the proposal will indeed be under critical scrutiny. If we have too many taxis and market disruptions, there should also be an opportunity to tighten up this issue. It must also be noted that taxis are currently paying, depending on bonuses, from EUR 6000 to EUR 10000 insurance, and those insurances ensure that if an accident occurs, the customer’s damage will be compensated. And indeed, these are not, as far as I know, Uber taxis. The Transport Code is also an instrument for securing postal services in the country. And indeed, we also need money for new road projects. I'm glad that that's coming up in the sequel to this traffic cycle. Although the government has now provided a great deal of money to repair the roads, new road projects must also be promoted. Many parties have been satisfied already at this stage, the Bus Association and many others. SKAL’s views have been heard and, at its request, these EUR 10000 turnover entrepreneurs were also removed, and thus. But, of course, the Transport and Communications Committee will have the exact reason for this. Some of the details may still be refined. Taxi entrepreneurs, at least through their union, have acknowledged that this traffic cycle can be lived with. It is also a good thing that there is a transitional period of almost two years so that operators in the sector can adapt to change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u95	Mr President! Indeed, the Government and Minister Berner deserve a great deal of thanks for finally bringing this comprehensive and important transport sector project for the future of Finland to the table. The biggest change in it is a change in mentality. It puts the consumer at the heart of both passenger and freight transport. Until now, traffic has been considered mainly as a means of moving from one place to another. At the same time, the barriers between different modes of transport have been difficult to cross. Now, Mr President, there is a change. In the future, traffic and mobility will increasingly become a comprehensive service. In particular, it is possible to open up price and timetable interfaces for trips. This will increase the choice of each of us in terms of mobility. For transport entrepreneurs, the new transport cycle also offers new opportunities. In sparsely populated areas, for example, entrepreneurs who now provide traditional taxi services will be able to offer other services if they so wish. The economic viability of entrepreneurship could be increased, for example, by combining postal services, goods transport or other domestic services for taxi transport. Similarly, a small passenger transport operator in cities may find surprising opportunities for new business by combining his own service with a larger entity. It is also easier to design various discounts on transport services when the services are under one door. Mr President! The financial expectations for the traffic cycle are high. The Ministry of Transport and Communications has estimated that the transport cycle could create up to 18,000 new jobs over the next few years. In the long term, the development made possible by the traffic cycle may even improve the situation of the Finnish economy much more than the agreed competitiveness agreement. The realisation of these wishes requires, above all, that Finnish transport and logistics services introduce the opportunities offered by new technologies, digitalisation and business models. This may also be the biggest challenge for reform. In fact, the most recent studies show how little use is made of the opportunities offered by the digital economy, especially in the most employment-intensive SMEs. Even a good legislative environment will not play a role in creating new growth if its potential is not fully exploited. That is why I hope that, especially in the transport sector, entrepreneurs will now catch up, for example, on the innovation voucher experiment that is starting at the best time. One spearhead is the development of the digital capabilities of SMEs in cooperation with the digital experts of universities and universities of applied sciences. Mr President! The traffic cycle is yet another excellent example of the promotion of the government’s deregulation initiatives. Their ultimate purpose is to make everyday life easier for each of us, to increase the dynamics of the economy and thus to create new growth and jobs. In other words, by removing barriers to entry and increasing competition, it is possible to create new jobs without costing the state anything. The results speak for themselves. The liberalisation of trade has created between 2500 and 3,000 new jobs in the trade sector. The reform of the alcohol law, which has not been completed, will, in turn, create the conditions for improving employment in the restaurant, brewery and food export sectors. Every one of these is needed, Mr President, to change the direction of the economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u96	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, a debate on the traffic cycle has begun, and it is an expected launch of the Government's top project. I regret to say that only one of the modes of transport rose to the actual debate. I would have liked to have had a debate on rail, heavy traffic, water transport, passenger transport so much more widely, but only taxi transport seems to be what we are talking about at the moment. Well, that must also be part of the fact that it is a question of 10 to 20 euros, and such euro amounts are easy to understand for this group as well. For me, the most important project in the transport cycle is the creation of a bus company, and I hope that it will be given much more time in this Chamber and, in due course, also in committee work. I hope that a transport company will be set up in Finland and a well-functioning state-controlled company will be created. A few comments on what taxi traffic is today and what will change: A taxi today is an authorisation system based on a needs test in Finland, in which the municipality or region has a quota quantity that the Ely Centre annually establishes. According to the quota quantity, permits are released, and today they are offered to new entrepreneurs and existing entrepreneurs in turn, how the Ely Centre, in its own consideration, distributes them and permits are released. There are also regular questions from municipalities as to whether the quota volume and the need to increase or reduce quotas are sufficient. Taxis use a fixed rate, i.e. a regulated premium, but the lower price in the taxi service has not been regulated, so the so-called reduced and cheaper price can also be passed by law today. The authorisation holder has an on-call obligation and is always per authorisation. This guarantees a level playing field for taxi services throughout Finland at the place of employment, or in some areas there is also the possibility that the duty to take care of on-call duty will be exercised. The location is defined in the permit determination. Similarly, a reference to accessibility or, so to speak, personal taxis should be included in the permit for taxis. Accessibility guarantees the availability of taxis for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, and thus the requirements of the Disability Services Act should also be taken into account. There is much talk of digitalisation today. This is part of the matter, and it is the future, but for a Finnish taxi, digitalisation is already a century-long tradition with the distribution systems. As a taxi driver myself, for 20 years I have enjoyed the benefits of digitalisation, including security devices in a taxi, which have long since been digitalized, the transportation of a car has been taking place on a mobile phone for 15 years and this kind of transparency has always been possible with digitalisation. But digitalisation is moving forward, and the taxi industry is involved and wants to be involved in development. Well, then, what will change in this new performance? One thing that does not change is about 5.5 million Finnish residents. As such, the market will not suddenly change, but the quota will be abolished, and the number of taxi licenses will be released, but fortunately the licence will remain with us. The station becomes the norm. There's relaxation. But as far as pricing is concerned, pricing will be liberalised. Driver training provides relief or relief. This will, of course, enable more drivers in the sector. On the other hand, we legislators need to ensure that a high-quality and safe taxi stays in Finland. Various combined payment instruments will become possible in the future, different modes of transport, and this is a good and worthwhile reform. It must ensure that such Waltti card-type problems do not arise in Finland. For lack of time, I will continue to speak in the next round of traffic debate. But for today, for my part, leave the traffic arch here. — Thank you, good debate!
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u97	Mr President! Today, the traffic curve has been praised both on the right and on the left of the Parliament. So let us enter a new era for all modes of transport and, above all, ensure that different modes of transport in Finland date one another. The traffic cycle is vital to us because Finland is indeed a sparsely populated country. We have very long distances and thin flow of goods. But now we want our logistics to be more efficient and better for both passenger and freight transport. It is clear that digitality offers us opportunities. It speeds up, improves, speeds up access to services, and this open data interface is very important when we talk about combining different modes of transport, ticket systems, travel chains. It brings smoothness to the everyday lives of everyone. Logistics can also give Finland the power to compete in the future. We know that the flow of goods is changing in the world. For example, the North-East Passage in the future can make it possible to pass through Finland more and more through the world's freight flows, and that is what we want to make our own business flourish. The transport sector market is already around EUR 30 billion per year in Finland for various modes of transport. So we are already talking about a big pot of money in the transport sector. There has been a very serious debate in the Chamber today about the future of taxis. But I hope that the liberalisation of taxi licenses will improve the possibilities for taxi traffic to carry out service-based transport in the future. It is important to remember that taxis continue to be licensed, and Mr Pakkanen here described very well and in detail what that means. A taxi driver is still required to drive, a licence is required to operate taxis themselves, a vehicle also needs to meet the requirements, and all of this is then monitored by Trafi, and so on. So we're not here to liberalise taxi traffic to the wild west. Even Mr Mustajärvi talked a lot about this canteen about how this traffic arch is now wrecking the possibilities of taxiing out of sparsely populated areas. At the moment, we are creating conditions for entrepreneurs to have public transport in sparsely populated areas in the future, there are taxi services. It is important to remember that these forms of service are combined with each other and that the opportunities for entrepreneurs to earn a taxi are also improved. Later, the Parliament will have a postal law, which also involves combining different forms of home - to - home services. Mr Berner has assured us on several occasions today about this platform: the combination of services. Passenger transport, school transport, transportation of goods flows, food, medicines, mail — anything we can think of that we can carry on rubber wheels. So we have to think about this and think that the traffic cycle also allows for taxi services in sparsely populated areas when it is better in business terms.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u98	Mr President! The debate on the traffic curve has focused on taxi licenses, but taxis are only a small part of this performance. If I did not know how dear taxis are to us Finns, I would suspect the government of deliberate taxi spraying tactics. However, the focus on taxi transport is understandable in that the transport services are the forerunners of the development of transport technology and business models. Uber has become the synonym of the sharing economy and one of the first drivers of robotic cars in the world. The government has been accused of being stuck in the past because it does not completely relieve taxi traffic. Many commentators have claimed that Uber and other similar services are banned by the government. But as the Minister of Transport, Mr Berner, said earlier, the car does not deny Uber or Lyft or Didi, it simply requires a licence from the bus service provider, which is not restricted. There is therefore nothing to prevent the acquisition of a taxi licence and the use of Uber, for example, for the transmission of reservations and payments, the information of which is also available to the tax authority if necessary. What matters is how expensive and laborious it is to obtain a permit for taxis in the future. Whether it is worth getting for occasional Christmas gigs or whether it requires continuous, full - time driving. On the other hand, I am not so concerned about these insurance policies. Insurance companies are already developing new products for new transport technologies and services. The digitalisation of transport is expected to radically change the whole insurance sector, not just for taxi insurance. In any case, the transition will be drastic as a long-established sector is opened up to open competition. Nevertheless, I believe that opening up the taxi sector to competition is justified. The closed regulatory economy has never served the interests of the consumer in the long run, even if the interests of the companies that manage the closed market are often said otherwise. There will certainly be problems, but we can learn from the experiences of Sweden. Trafin should react quickly if, for example, price withdrawals are detected or if part of Finland is threatened to be completely free of taxi services. To a lesser extent, the same is the case in the transport sector when moving from the authorisation procedure to the notification procedure in the case of vans. However, the availability, pricing and establishment of passenger car licences are not previously restricted by legislation. Mr President! The most important theme of the transport cycle is the promotion of digital business models in transport. For example, ticketing and payment systems for passenger transport companies are required to be interoperable and to open up essential information about their service to the general public. Passengers will certainly welcome the reforms, as they will be easier to assess and compare transport services. On the other hand, all transport companies are hardly cheering. In practice, the government forces them to cooperate with their competitors. Thus, the traffic cycle both dismantles old regulation and creates new ones. As a rule, its objectives are worthwhile, but much depends on practical implementation. For example, do we dare to oblige authorities and companies not only to open their data but also to use standardised formats of traffic data and to define the concepts of their data reserves in the same way. I know that this will come back to the second stage of the transport cycle, and I wish the Minister of Transport courage. Standard information resources and common vocabulary are essential for the coordination of transport services and the development of new services. Mr President! The traffic curve has also been criticised for a long transition period. Companies will be given until July 2018 to update their information systems to meet the requirements of the arc. Time is considered to be wasted when new services are not allowed to be deployed more quickly. In the meantime, it is feared that foreign transport companies will be able to take over the Finnish market. This criticism tells us a lot about this time. From the point of view of traditional legislation, the transition period of more than two years is exceptionally short, whereas a year and a half from the point of view of the development of digital services is a hopelessly long time. According to Pekka Mötö, founder of the Onnibus, "A few years is almost one generation in the digital world." No wonder our legislation so often seems to be a few generations behind. Mr President! I am concerned about the focus of this evening's debate. We have mainly discussed the transport of the past, not the future — the future that this arch should serve. Among other things, we have been talking about taxi drivers, a profession that will disappear in the next decade. Last month Uber used robotic volts to transport the first passengers to Pittsburgh. Japan will introduce robot taxis at the Tokyo Olympics in 2020. In Japan robot taxis are being developed specifically for the needs of the deserted country of Japan. There is a need for taxi services in rural areas, as many Japanese forest villages are left with elderly people, many of whom are no longer able to drive their own cars and therefore can no longer go to the store on their own or to the doctor. Does that ring a bell?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u99	Mr President! The aim of the transport cycle is to create the conditions for the introduction of new technologies, digitalisation and new business models in the transport sector. This will improve the service and enable new business in traffic throughout Finland. The aim is to distribute transport vehicles more accurately and efficiently. This is also important in reducing transport emissions and combating climate change. The traffic cycle will combine and modernise the provisions on passenger and freight transport. The transport cycle will make a significant contribution to the introduction of new technologies, digitalisation and new business models by also creating the conditions for new business ideas based on open data and better use of data resources. The traffic curve provides for the interoperability of ticket and payment systems. Transport services can therefore be reached and combined as far as possible. Publicly supported passenger transport will be reformed in the traffic cycle. The reform of passenger and freight transport will be implemented through the use of digitalisation and the development of new market-based and innovative service concepts. At the same time, the creation of transport services will be promoted on a customer-oriented basis, in particular as a service, on a market-based basis and on the basis of fair competition. By combining services, significant cost savings can also be achieved. Overall, the traffic cycle will be implemented in three stages. In this first phase, the changes will mainly focus on regulation of road transport. The first stage proposal will significantly reduce the regulatory burden on the provision of road transport services and reduce the administrative burden on operators. The proposal creates a level playing field for existing and new players in the market. In the taxi system, the current licence quotas will be abolished and the current rules on location and maximum prices will be changed. Operators must indicate their place of employment and on-call time, i.e. their main area of activity and service time. If necessary, the Finnish Transport Safety Agency Trafi may issue an order on the prices of taxi services if prices become excessive. Professional taxi services remain subject to authorisation, but a car-specific licence is converted into an operator-specific licence for taxi services. It is proposed to streamline the regulation of mass and freight transport, and that is a good thing. In the case of passenger transport, the national requirement for a separate ticket or call licence for public transport operators will be removed. However, the operator shall regularly notify the commencement, modification and termination of the service provided at least 60 days in advance. The professional qualifications of drivers of lorries and buses will be reduced so that regulation is more precisely targeted at professional activities. The granting of traffic permits will be concentrated on one national licensing authority, Trafi, which will continue to become a registration authority for road traffic. Mr President! There has also been a debate here today about whether this traffic cycle will weaken, this proposal for rural public transport. The fact is, however, that over the years, public transport in rural sparsely populated areas has virtually disappeared. There's not a lot of bus shifts going on there anymore. I personally believe that it is possible, in this traffic cycle, to create diverse services in rural areas. It enables, for example, the transport of mail and persons to be carried on the same ride, as separate rides are now being driven for different purposes. Mr President! All in all, the traffic cycle is a very large legal entity. It is a border-breaking reform of great potential. Transport is seen as a whole and not as separate parts of different modes of transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u100	Mr President! This traffic cycle is one of the reforms under the Government Programme that is now being implemented. Digitalisation is one of the top priorities of this government, and it would be a strange situation for modern computer systems, which are already being used to a reasonable degree in all areas of society today — it would be more appropriate to use them — not to be infected on the transport side. The representative of the plant in his own speech has just dealt with this very well. As a top computer expert, he probably understands this as the best of us. As has been said, the government is determined to reform certain things in order to put the country's economy in order, and that is precisely the kind of project that this traffic cycle is. The aim is to reform the legislation on transport. This applies both to goods transport and to passenger transport. During this debate on referrals, I cannot help but marvel at the harsh criticism that has come particularly from the Socialist Group. Of course, I understand that there will always be resistance to change, even if anything is renewed, but I do understand that we must keep this world going. Being left behind would be the biggest loss there could be. That is why I do not understand all the opposing speeches. Of course, there must be reasonable criticism and doubt in all reforms, it usually develops the project for the better, but it is difficult for me to understand such total mismanagement. It is true that mobility services in this country are fragmented. A few weeks ago, in Joensuu, I came across a situation where a passenger suspected that he was simply not able to find a way to go to his own place of residence when there was no common information portal, where he could have looked at the best mode of transport. That brings me to the question whether it would be a good idea to review these matters at last. Indeed, digitalisation is also a part of the transport sector, and the aim of this traffic cycle is to ensure that market neutrality is kept in mind at all times that no one is going to be favoured — if we do not go downhill. In other words, equity is one of the most important starting points of the project. There has been a great deal of talk on the subject of taxis in this referral debate, Mr President, and that is an important issue for all of us Finns. The taxi service must be available after the implementation of this project, when the car is already in practice. There are many suspicious speeches, which I understand, but we have heard in this debate at the mouth of Minister Berner and also at the mouth of many Members of Parliament that taxi services in this country will remain and will be developed and indeed monitored. The FTA can really intervene if something crazy goes wrong. There is no situation in Finland that public authorities do not supervise business. That is not possible in an organised society. A licence is still needed from taxi drivers, that is clear. In the future, the entrepreneur will be responsible for professional drivers being skilled, having completed their courses and who are good citizens to carry out their duties. It must also be remembered that when you are in the market, you can probably manage those who offer good services and are flexible, for example, a taxi operator who can give you a ride at night. Quality standards are also adhered to to ensure that when services are available, they do not go under the bar. So that is also what is being followed up, and the market in general is the best successor. It should also be borne in mind that the Taxi Federation has given the green light to this reform, so that even this duubio might not be worth raising up with a great deal of noise. Finally, Mr President, this traffic cycle will be implemented in three stages. The first is the reform of the regulation of road transport. The aim is to reduce administration and create new conditions in Finnish transport by increasing the provision of services, and taxi reform is indeed only part of it. The second stage will then be to deal with these professional qualifications. I can say that, on the professional side of today's Finland, there is a range of different permits and different rules, that it is good that they are carried through at intervals and that unnecessary bureaucracy is removed and, above all, clarified by this system of authorisations which, admittedly, resembles a kind of jungle in this country. Then, in the third stage of the traffic cycle, there is this stage of review, i.e. ensuring that the objective of the traffic cycle is met. After all, no legislation in this country, even the Constitution, has been created to be permanent, but it is always living up to time, and then the new traffic cycle will be reformed as soon as it has entered into force. If there is a need for some reforms and there are some shortcomings, of course they will be corrected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u101	Mr President! The government's proposal for a traffic curve is a good starting point. It aims for the future and seeks to integrate public transport into a seamless whole. Easy use and customer orientation are key. This brings together legislation on different modes of transport and market regulation. However, attention must be paid to services in rural and peripheral areas, especially taxis, which must not be weakened by the traffic cycle. With the obligation to place taxis and the abolition of on-call regulation, we hope we will not have to wonder whether there will soon be any taxis in rural areas. Transport as a service, i.e. in accordance with the MaaS principle, does not necessarily operate in remote areas. It is a good and functional idea in the capital region and in large cities, where there is systematic public transport and mobile masses for large-scale activities. Smaller localities face challenges in chaining traffic. It would also be desirable for public transport organised in a comprehensive manner by municipalities to take precedence over market conditions. The Finnish Transport and Logistics Association has expressed its concern about the flaws in the traffic cycle. For example, the fact that tractors running less than 60 km/h do not require a licence for transport tasks has an impact on traffic flow and safety. In addition, change takes up work in the transport sector that is already struggling with difficulties. There is also a risk of a grey economy in the growth of small-scale transport activities. The committee must carefully assess the disadvantages and benefits of the present transport cycle. The liberalisation of competition and prices is a desirable change that will make it possible for a new type of entrepreneurship, but affordable services
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u102	Mr President! The traffic curve as a whole is good. A lot of people in the debat were wondering where all the talk about it went. They haven't changed. True Finns have always seen it as a very important part of keeping the taxi regulated. In other words, reliability is a prerequisite for the deepest nature of the traffic cycle, which we all want to achieve, for MaaS, who is a new kind of thinking and way of organising public transport. That reliability is crystallized to a great extent by the promise, and the Finns of Peru got this through: the promise will remain, nothing has changed in principle. There are a few big questions that need to be answered, and they need to be taken properly. It is very important that taxis are involved in this, because it is an integral part of this system. And even if both the Finns of Finland and the taxi think that the current system of regulations in force would have worked at the heart of this traffic cycle, compromises had to be made, and now here is almost the Taxi Federation's B option written, which was also the alternative of the Finns of Finland. But this is only part of this big picture, which means you have to think of a bigger picture than just a taxi system. There have now been the biggest speeches and big speeches, and I will also focus on that point, but there are a number of things here, such as heavy-duty traffic and vans, for example. Let's talk about the same terms, but then one more point gets a little skated, so it's a bit of a check-in place. MaaS will only proceed if it works so reliably that people give up their own car. People give up that second car at first, and then later on, they give up their own car. It is only that threshold, and it is a question of reliability and authorisation. So I think the Finns are the biggest. As the forwarders of EarthS. It's a level playing field. There is so much in it that we need to review in committee. Here are a few examples: What happens to registration for professional transport and what happens to insurance? What happens to the bus with 9-16 seats? According to the traffic curve, these sections of the taxi system do not apply to it, so there are unequal situations. Similarly, there are differences in taxes, and vans may indeed be out of the whole thing by not having that permission. What about the meter? There are rumours of any kind, but in my view the current rate gauge is what will be there in the future for passenger traffic, which is carried out by a car. It is already governed by our friend, the EU, with its directives. By the way, the directive will also affect that tractor and 60 kilometres in relation to 40 kilometres, that it has not been drawn to the very end. What's the standard place of employment? Does that mean that the driver starts his day at that place and then goes away, which makes a gap in the rural service? There was a lot of talk here. The debut was already used as an example. An engagement party, which is the municipality of the Finnish Basic Finns. When the driver leaves there, he gets the first ride to Pori, for example, this will make it possible for Kihnio’s car to stay in Pori, and thus the vacuum is there in Kihniö. These are the things that need to be clarified in advance in committee. In advance, you also need to find out and you can find out the price of a taxi. How's that coming? Does this lead to the kind of haggling that we have all had to get used to on trips abroad? That doesn't sound good. The driver’s license is more stringent than the current requirements, but how is it controlled? In my view, the author of the licence must control that the driver is worthy of their permit conditions. So there's also that service side tested at some level already by Traf. In my opinion, it cannot be left to the entrepreneur alone. Of course, the entrepreneur will have a big role to play here. The biggest thing about this, however, is that the condition of authorisation remains. But because of the above-mentioned question marks, I am afraid that the countryside will be emptied of taxis, the service will be weakened, prices will rise, and then when there is an oversupply of cars to growth centres, there will be quite a lot of bankruptcies. This wave of bankruptcy should somehow be avoided. But either way, I'm guessing that the taxi here is still in the role of the survivor, the rural resident may not be. These are the big patterns. So my conclusion on this is that we need to build a sort of monitoring system here, and if the monitoring system becomes bad news, such as these bankruptcies, rising prices and difficulties in access, then we need to draw conclusions from it. The conclusion may be to return to the present system. But if we go to the current situation, then this traffic arch is a big package of laws, and so there are still many details that need to be refined. This is not going to turn into a dream like this, what is now thought of here, before, for example, everyone opens up those payment interfaces, and in my opinion the state company, VR, must make it the first to rush and show the model to others in order to get Finland’s top country of public transport and MaaS to become a reality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u103	Mr President! The basic idea of a comprehensive reform of transport and the consolidation of transport legislation is a good one. The exploitation of digitalisation is one of the red threads of Merja Kyllönen's traffic arch project launched during her ministerial term. Digitalisation is a great opportunity to improve the use of transport resources, improve the functionality of travel chains and the availability of traffic information, create new business and export opportunities for Finnish companies and improve the customer orientation of transport services. At best, a more seamless coordination of transport modes and transport chains and the pooling of resources can improve public transport services. It is hoped that new public transport services will lead to a reduction in the need for passenger cars and the maintenance and even improvement of public transport services outside larger cities. However, it is clear that public transport services will continue to need public financial support and public transport support has been too low in recent years. Today the EU has signed the Paris climate agreement. Action is also needed to combat climate change in the transport sector. A well-functioning and comprehensive public transport system, reducing private cars and improving transport efficiency and increasing alternative transport fuels are needed. Fossil fuels will have to be converted into electric cars and biofuels in the future. It is important to remember the environmental aspect of the reform of transport policy and the reduction of emissions from the transport sector must be an essential aspect of the work on the transport cycle. Mr President! It is good that the use of the forms of the sharing economy is made possible and that the existing resources are better used. However, it is extremely important in the traffic cycle to ensure that all operators in the transport industry play by the same rules of play and pay their taxes properly and pay their wages properly. Care must be taken, for example, to ensure that the abolition of the licence requirement for parcel delivery does not lead to an increase in the black economy. As has been said many times here today, the problem of the traffic cycle relates to the regulation of taxis. The question is, what problem does this change in the regulation of the taxi system actually address? I do not know, but the abolition of maximum price regulation is likely to create new problems. The threat is that the customer will have to compromise prices separately each time and those who are unable to compromise will have to pay exploitation prices. The rise in prices, especially in rural areas, is a serious risk. Lessons learned from the abolition of price regulation Sweden is not rosy, and I hope that this issue can still be considered in committee. But, Mr President, although there are problems with taxi regulation, there are many other aspects of this proposal and there are many good things to remember.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u104	Mr President! The repeal of the old law and the creation of a new law must ensure that a functioning and fair market in the transport sector is maintained. This attitude is needed from the committee and Parliament in terms of both taxi and freight transport. Open sharing of information in order to achieve smooth travel chains is a positive and desirable objective. The traffic cycle must create digital solutions that facilitate people's everyday lives. However, I would like to highlight the problems in the government's proposal regarding the transport of persons and goods, which I hope will be corrected in committee work. If this law enters into force as it stands, the final outcome for the carriage of goods, vans and tractors will be the distortion of the transport market to the detriment of the current holders of the goods licence. The sector is very capital-intensive and entrepreneurs have millions of dollars in their equipment. We don't want that kind of result to weaken their vitality, do we? In view of the current state of affairs, there are shortcomings and deviations in the government's proposal. Some of the exceptions appear to be aware of the choices made, and some shortcomings are likely to remain unconscious to the ministers, especially with regard to their impact. The definition of professional transport is no longer in line with the EU Regulation when it is accompanied by the purpose of obtaining income. The EU Regulation is based on the fact that, for professional transport, a licence is required when four conditions are met: transport is non-own goods, transport is on the road, compensation is obtained and transport is by car or tractor. What is this purpose of earning income? What if a person transports without permission and says that he was not meant to earn income? If there is a desire to exempt carpools from the obligation of authorisation, the law could define only the activities covering expenses separately. It also provides for the exemption of commercial freight transport by tractors from licensing requirements in a way that appears to be contrary to the EU carrier regulation. A traffic cycle would require a licence only when the construction speed of the tractor exceeds 60 km/h, but the EU regulation limits the exemption to 40 km/h. I very much wonder why the Minister is presenting the law in violation of EU regulations. The objective of the traffic cycle is to combine the transport of persons and goods. However, why is this law not allowing vans to transport passengers under the same conditions as taxis and buses are allowed to carry goods? Mr President! It has become clear that there are no exceptions to the scope of the law in force. This bill states that the derogations from the permit requirements contained in Article 7 of the Freight Transport Act could be made by a separate Government decree, but when it comes to the scope of the law, I do believe that such a procedure is an infringement of the legal protection of individuals and communities. In other words, the traffic cycle should also include these exceptions to the scope and, in principle, should be as they are in the law in force. It is proposed to remove the traffic arch and the regulations and regulations adopted pursuant to it from the police and Customs and to entrust Traf with the task. I doubt Trafi's resources and expertise, and Mr Trafi does not even have the prerequisites for on-road surveillance, so the obligation of the police and the customs authorities to monitor compliance with the law, unauthorized traffic and compliance with cabotage regulations on the road and at border crossing points must also be mentioned in this law. Mr President! The current law includes, among other things, the following requirements for a vehicle used in traffic, the violation of which is punishable by the law: It is an obligation to notify the professional use of the vehicle in the vehicle register. There is a requirement that the vehicle is exclusively controlled by the holder of the licence, which prevents the release of traffic permits for the use of others. The current law also includes provisions on the use of a rented vehicle and labelling requirements for the details of the holder of the licence. These obligations have been removed from the traffic cycle. Why? Is it intended that a licence can be lent to another person? I don't think so. I do not understand why these old regulations should be abolished altogether. They should be there in such a way that the obligations and sanctions imposed on the vehicle used in transport are mentioned. Article 29 of the Freight Transport Act has been removed from the traffic cycle by the obligation to present, inter alia, the licence, the licence, the driver attestation, the certificate required by the EU Regulation, the lease agreement or the transport document, whether in paper or electronic form, to demonstrate the legality of the transport and compliance with the cabotage provisions. However, Article 30 of the Freight Transport Act has also been removed from the traffic cycle as well as the suspension of illegal transport and sanctions under Article 32, so that in future the police will not be able to intervene solely in the transport that is not in conformity with the EU regulation and will not be able to initiate a penal procedure. The current obligation to present transport documents and the right to suspend transport and the penalties associated with them must be in this traffic cycle. I hope they've just accidentally fallen out of there. It is proposed that a person who intentionally or grossly negligently transports persons or goods on the road without authorisation shall be sentenced to a fine or a maximum of six months’ imprisonment for the use of unauthorized professional services. This is where the penalty threshold for unauthorised traffic has been raised to an exceptionally high level, in practice to mean only intentional acts. I do not think this is the right direction, however, when it comes to the transport sector, which is one of the sectors that has had the most problems in the black economy. The rules of the game must be fair to all entrepreneurs, and those entrepreneurs who do not pay their taxes and employers' obligations must be removed from the sector. Willfulness is difficult to interpret there on the road, but if you simply say 'the one carrying without permission', it is quite clear. In this case, that criminality is based on the perpetrator’s fault, as is the case with the current law. The Transport Code imposes a special obligation on the Committee on Transport and Communications to carefully review the proposed changes and to make all necessary changes to the Government's proposal on the Transport Code. This requirement is highlighted when the aim is to have, for several decades, a transport market law linking the various modes of transport, which would treat all entrepreneurs and businesses in the transport market equally. I think it is a good practice today to have a permit and a licence for professional freight when you take a four-week course, which is, therefore, four weeks a week, eight hours a day, and finally an exam. In addition to completing the course, the person must be financially sound, reputable and adult. I wonder if these demands are to be dropped. Now this course is about to be missed and only exams will be left. Is this about underestimating education as has been the case with other government cuts in education? I personally consider professional qualifications in the transport sector to be a very important issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u105	Mr President! It is quite clear at this stage that there must be quite a wide-ranging discussion of this issue in the Committee on Transport and Communications, which is that these comments are quite correct, that this proposal is now being said diplomatically on some points. But it is not, of course, a bad thing that Parliament and its committees, as a committee of experts, are given power and the opportunity to influence legislative proposals. On the contrary, I think that it is a good thing to be able to deal with it in consultation with experts. As a relief, you might say that it is all right that the SDP is now trying to be on the side of an entrepreneur. In recent weeks, different entrepreneurs, such as pharmacists and lawyers, have only been called names. But that's a good start if you're on the side of the transport companies. Maybe this one. Finland will be able to rise from this. In this matter of taxi traffic, you have to ask: What is it really about? Why does it raise so much suspicion? Why is taxi traffic so important? Personally, I would see that taxi traffic has become one, I might say, a de facto basic service for even a little more remote areas, where virtually no other traffic is now mobile without a car. Since the previous governments have reduced public transport so much, there are no more buses, and health services and other services have been transferred to the centres, there has to be a strong focus, so something must go to them, and now the taxi is being clinged to when there are no other means. Now many regional representatives have spoken that they believe that the liberalisation of competition could even improve the supply of taxis in the provinces. Personally, I think they know what they're talking about, and I'd trust pretty much that they could be right about that. But then again, if this were not the case, but the number of taxis in the countryside would collapse or prices would rise, then we must have the answers, how to react to such a situation and how to solve these problems. It is not even so much a matter of deep rural areas that we are talking about here, but of the remotest neighborhoods of the provinces, of the regional centres — the availability of taxis is not necessarily obvious to us today. So it's a good idea to do something about it. As far as road safety and the lawfulness of transport are concerned, I personally believe that it should be the police, as an authority, and that there should be, firstly, powers and, secondly, resources. In other words, if there are no powers, nothing can be done, and if there are no resources, then in practice the powers will not be fulfilled. I myself wonder a little about this pattern of transferring responsibility to Traf. Is there even a staff that is able to monitor and deal with such a matter? We have to get answers to these things. This is also the question of whether each one has a smartphone in its pocket, when, according to their own speeches, some of the Greens in Helsinki have one in this Chamber: yes, the people who intervene in the digitalization that inevitably exists must also be taken into account in this presentation and its discussion. Mr President! As has been said before, the devil lives in detail, but fortunately, at least the chairman of the committee, Mr Jalonen sounded like he had a good list of these details, which we must work on together.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u106	We will continue with the list of speakers. You can reserve speeches with the P button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u107	Mr President! The proposal for a traffic curve is a large, ambitious and important one. The transport sector is of particular importance to the Finnish economy: our main market area is behind the seas. Exports and imports of goods always require arrangements and entail costs. Distance is not only a factor in relations between Finland and the outside world. It is also an important factor within Finland. Finland is a country of great distances. Developing the transport sector, improving traffic efficiency, affects the performance of the Finnish economy as a whole, the productivity of the economy. There is no doubt, therefore, that this reform is necessary. The transport sector is also important, except for business. It is a question of access to services. It is about good everyday life, children's access to hobbies, elderly people's access to care and care, work and leisure. The service system according to the performance seems, at least at first reading, to be a leap for the better. But, Mr President, there is also, of course, much to be criticised for. The change in the licensing practice for taxis has been the most talked about, but there is much more to be clarified in general. Special concern is given to the survival of sparsely populated areas in Eastern and Northern Finland as public transport support decreases.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u108	Mr President! I have to pick up where Mr Tuppurainen left off, which is now from Eastern Finland. When you come from that country from the bottom of a nuthouse, you always think about things from the point of view of the grandmother or grandpa of Savonranta Rönkönvaara, and, of course, when you start talking about this traffic curve in time, the first thought was, "What's the first thing that's gonna happen to that old lady at Rönkönvaara's house at three o'clock?" But there must also be a sincere recognition of the unbiased approach that has been taken forward in this traffic cycle. In this time and place it feels brave but also really good to have the courage to take big steps and try to open up those difficult interfaces so that the combination of rides can be very freely achieved, regardless of whether you are talking about taxis, buses, trains or trams. This will certainly open up new business opportunities for transport entrepreneurs on the one hand and applications developers on the other. And I think we're gonna get a good one. The situation in different parts of Finland is actually well illustrated by the fact that, in the large cities, the development of various MaaS services, i.e. Mobility as a Service, and the way in which the transport system is being implemented, is that: The granny of Rönkönvaara there is anxious as to whether it is possible to get a taxi once in a lifetime when it might be needed. There have been excellent speeches here. The representative of the plant painted the future that must be waiting for us in traffic. What is striking is that we are colleagues in the same party and he had to hand-in-hand guide me on what the Light Spot service means and how to order a taxi with just a button press and even follow how a taxi approaches its customer. Well, learn age all. If a couple of things are allowed to be raised here, it certainly makes it easier for us that, at this point in time, there has been no incorporation, that ten tonnes of free transport have been abandoned, and, on the other hand, that taxi licenses are being held, even though that quantity regulation is being abolished. I have asked many taxis there in my own area about how this traffic plan feels, and to my surprise, the reception has been positive. The management of the Taxi Federation has been constructive and sympathetic to the proposals put forward, but local taxi drivers have also taken this as a positive step, as it were. They understand that some reform and change must take place and feel that there can now be a moderate alternative and a solution, so it is worth taking part in this change. Nevertheless, I am pleased that Mr Jalonen, chairman of the Committee on Transport, is seriously concerned about what is happening to taxi companies, especially in small towns, and I am sure that the committee will give them the consideration they deserve. The representative Taavitsainen brought up the concerns of Finnish Transport and Logistics SKAL. They are also worthy of discussion and attention in committee, particularly with regard to the treatment of vans in the case of passenger transport, on the one hand, how to bring tractor transport into line with the EU regulation, and on the other hand how this law and the monitoring of cabotage will continue in the future. There has been much room for improvement so far, and if the police and Customs transfer control to Traf, there will be even greater fear of problems. When you think about and see this whole traffic cycle, it comes to thinking about whether there is also a need for a work-cycle in this country, whether there is a need for a health bar, an entrepreneurship bar, where there would be an equally open-minded combination of different areas and actors. And if I have properly understood this kind of health arc, we will also try to bring about as many services as possible from start to finish. I understand that, on the one hand, we need to keep a strong perspective in the big cities — how to make sense of the congestion in the big cities — but on the other hand, I hope that you will all bear in mind that Grandma of Savonranta Rönkönvaara and how to secure some kind of service for her in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u109	Mr President! There's a few more things I didn't mention. First of all, on this taxi issue: Indeed, at the beginning of the referral debate, they wanted to create a picture that taxiing and taxiing in this country would be somehow out of control. That is certainly not the case, and during this debate, as has also been the case with Mr Berner, it has become quite clear that authorisation is maintained, quality control is maintained and then normal control by the authorities is in place and tax evasion is not possible. That these basics are in order, but we can, of course, argue whether this reform will then be of the right length and the right direction. In the right direction it is whether it is sufficient, its time will show. As I said in my previous speech, there is also the third stage in this draft law on the transport sector which examines the measures taken, whether they have been effective enough and have reached the desired goal. Interoperability is a problem for our current public transport and taxi traffic, which means that we must bring the compatibility and interoperability of these different modes to the level that the passenger is able to look at his laptop or mobile phone, for example, from Ilomants to Kuopio via Joensuu, because that information is enough. Indeed, it is sad today that when many passengers leave Kuopio, even if now they are heading towards Kihniö — which was mentioned in the speech just now — they actually get their finger in their mouths that are the means. We have to put these things in order so that the information moves and people are offered alternatives. That's where it all starts. I can tell you the story of a friend of mine, an entrepreneur. He transported a reasonably heavy item, bought it on the other side of Finland, and then tried to arrange for it to be transported there to his business place. It was a rather strange story. After many phases and massive phone calls, the price dropped to one third and the service accelerated about a week. In other words, it will certainly help to get its goods and various products into order. So it is not worth throwing an axe into anyone's well just yet, although this bill has a good and legitimate reason, and we cannot stay in the fire when the rest of the world goes around us. He's not walking anymore. He's more like running. The fact that tractors are exempt from traffic licences is justifiable, because it must be borne in mind that many farmers in rural areas are doing their job in a very small area, and that their range of activities is very small. He is likely to carry out road dumping, gravel driving or other similar work that takes place in a very small circle, and he is not able to compete very much with trucks. This makes perfect sense for those people who practice small-scale business like this to be granted this opportunity with minimal bureaucracy. It is more important for a person to work and try than to wait in a line of bureaucracy for some promise, which then results in his livelihood suffering and his income falling all the time. Mr Demarie's concern has been very great during this debate, there is something to it, and I certainly do not underestimate it. But what warms my heart as a rural person, because I still live in and feel well in my municipality of Ilomants, is that people in the countryside are being very concerned for once. That is something I note very much, and these words I am going to look at this evening when I go to bed in my heart, how people in rural areas are being cared for for once. This is a very positive point, and I believe that Mr Heinonen, who has just arrived in the Chamber, will also be joining the House of Representatives with a great deal of concern for the services of people in rural areas. The fact is that today
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u112	Mr President! I'm glad there's been some concern about the taxis in Kihniö. It is in its place that these rural conditions are also being addressed. But we have already had the preliminary idea that we are agile small-towners, that we do not accept other than the taxis of our own municipality. Even the emergency services have gone so far, and I believe that it will go from now on, and taxis there in their own municipality have not yet enjoyed a great deal of wages. That I think this is going to be all right. It has been said here that there must be a lot to be done in committee, but entrepreneurs in the sector have come to be commended for leaving the proposal for the planned small-scale activities. The possibility of small-scale activities would have created two markets for the sector and increased the potential of a certainly grey economy. If anyone had been able to drive a taxi up to EUR 10000, we could have had a completely wild cheap taxi market, which would have been a real security risk in addition to distorting competition. We have also insisted that a taxi operator can only have his seat in Finland. The company must have a Finnish business code and the car must be registered in Finland. It is important that the actors in the sector continue to be fully regulated in Finland. This, too, has been thanked by taxi companies, as well as by the extension of the transitional period, which offers an opportunity to prepare for change. The traffic cycle would enter into force on 1 July 2018. This will allow existing operators in the sector to have sufficient time to adapt their activities to the new legislation. One of the most important criteria remains the definition of the main place of employment. Now, according to the draft law, operators should indicate their main area of activity and service time, i.e. in practice their place of employment and on-call time. However, with the reform, the taxi could wait for the drivers from outside the place of employment that they have announced, and other localities can come to fill the demand for another place. Reducing the regulatory burden on staging and on-call services has given some cause for concern to taxi entrepreneurs who have sought clarifications and registrations in order to ensure the objective of securing services, especially in sparsely populated areas. The Government's proposal takes into account the special groups of taxi customers, which are a large part of the customers. Exceptionally strict suitability requirements for taxi drivers are justified because a large number of customers are limited in function and the customer is often alone in the taxi with his driver. A particularly important point is the requirement for adequate interaction and language skills. As skills will not be verified by testing or checking and training will not be required, attention will have to be paid to how to ensure adequate skills, especially in the service of special groups. Healthy adults are able to assess the level of service they receive and give feedback, but for children, disabled people and elderly people, for example, there must be means of checking the suitability of the driver. New technologies and digitalisation will open up many new approaches and opportunities to take advantage of. From the point of view of future traffic, it is essential that information and information systems are interoperable and that interfaces are open. It is proposed that the essential information on mobility services should be opened and that the interoperability of ticket and payment systems should also be regulated. The traffic cycle would combine and modernise the provisions on passenger and freight transport. Significant reductions in the regulation of mass and freight transport are proposed. It is proposed that the compulsory entrepreneurship training requirement be waived. Additional national requirements would be removed where action is based on EU legislation. The review of the entire transport system is a major project. As far as possible, the proposed first phase will bring together and harmonise provisions for road transport. Purchases of transport services and other public support for the transport system are a significant item of expenditure in central and local government finances. If services could be provided, combined and used in a more diverse and efficient way, significant cost savings could be achieved. The proposal supports the objectives of the Government Programme to reduce the costs of municipalities and strengthen competitiveness by improving the conditions for business and entrepreneurship. Finally, as has been said here, it is probably a place of so-called cooling when this proposal goes to committee and the experts are consulted there, and where there is room for improvement, the proposals for improvement could also be made jointly.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u113	Mr President! It is quite unbelievable, though, that the movement of Finns to defend taxis. Last spring, when the Transport Code bill was in the opinion of the municipalities, we have, for example: In Mikkeli, a statement was made about this package of laws — even the ten-ton free passengers — and at least at that level, the Finns of Finland did not object at all, but accepted it completely. When even the matter was put to the vote, they proved themselves in favour of the original proposal by voting. From today’s debate when you pull together, you have to say that even in this matter you can put a check on the things in which the Finns have turned their coats. We have received a message from the local level that, in the case of taxis, there are, among other things, five different ways of managing taxi traffic, one of which requires a taxi permit. The professional test and local knowledge of taxi drivers will be abandoned — this is not what our local taxis want. The taxation of taxis and small buses is unequal — this is not acceptable. Issues relating to the taximeter — I believe it must be compulsory equipment, because it is equivalent to the cash system in other business. And in terms of pricing — how is priced, what is disproportionate? A person earning EUR 7000 per month is different from a low-income person earning EUR 1200 per month.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u114	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The world is changing, and that is why it is good that reforms are being made. For example, in some way confused today, I read the news that, according to the Supreme Administrative Court, Posti must continue to distribute mail to the archipelago five days a week even to a place where there is no such daily, regular connection. This now costs between EUR 200 and EUR 500 per letter when it has to be delivered to it according to the Supreme Administrative Court. Of course, this is done in accordance with the law, but perhaps one might wonder if it would be a place for reform. Where will such money be found in the future, that is, can we guarantee that in the future, for example, every person, every single day, will have to take the mail, wherever he lives? This is a big question, and it is therefore good that things are now being reformed in the transport sector. So in September, the government decided on a traffic cycle, a project to dismantle regulation and integrate the legislation on taxis, buses and freight transport into a coherent whole. The bill has been praised as one of the most advanced transport legislation in the world, and one might say that there is no need. The biggest reform of the traffic cycle, as I have already said in that debate, is a complete change of thinking. Until today, traffic has been thought, here and perhaps in all our thoughts, only as a means of moving from one place to another. In the future, this traffic arch approach will increasingly transform transport and mobility into a comprehensive service. In particular, the opening of price and timetable interfaces for trips will enable this change. Mr Jokinen, chairman of the parliamentary group of our delegation, well described the fact that when it is made to work in the way it is intended to work, we have a service in which, with a few clicks, you buy tickets from Kärsämäki to Korkeasaari, i.e. one application will be able to handle the whole and get a uniform chain of transportation, then it will be people, packages, perhaps in the future, from the post to which I referred, and many more. I myself am not a defender of Uber because I know it involves a lot of tax evasion and this type of question, but we need a legal model that uses today's technology in the same way as Uber does, but so that it pays taxes to Finland. It is also a good thing in this proposal that there are clear entries here about the inclusion of these actors in Finnish taxation. A small passenger transport operator may find a surprising new business by combining his own service with a larger entity, and I personally believe that the traffic cycle is a good, enabling example of a reform that not only develops the present but creates enormous potential for a completely new kind of business. The Ministry of Transport and Communications has estimated that the traffic cycle could create up to 18,000 jobs, and in some estimates even larger numbers have been mentioned when the whole thing starts to work and we can bring this whole transport and mobility together. It is certainly better to go to the future by means of opportunities than by means of difficulties, and that is why the reform of transport is a great opportunity and it makes sense to seize it. And for that, thank you to the government of our country. As I said at the debat, when I come from the countryside itself and have wanted to keep the rural side, I am convinced that this round of transport has now been prepared in a centre-led manner under the leadership of the Minister for Transport, Anne Berner, that these concerns have been taken into account. As a matter of fact, I would like to highlight this on-call obligation. It may be that it works as well as Mr Vartia in the debat section said that when the only taxi in Kälviä is in use, then there will be another host on the farm who also has such a permit, and he will drive. This is a beautiful idea, and it may be that it will do so in the future. It is believed, but if this does not happen, I hope that in the future there will be an opportunity to reconsider whether there are areas where some kind of on-call obligation is needed. So the rural area is what I myself have the greatest concerns about, but, as has been pointed out in the debate and in the debate, there is a great deal of opportunity here, precisely when we can combine packages, we can combine people's transportation, schoolchildren, elderly people and everything else, so if we can make it work well, then I think there is a lot of potential here. The big thing is Kela taxis, which today work differently in Finland than in Sweden, for example, where there are larger hospital buses like this that collect people from a larger area. It is no longer just transportation, it is being transported to a doctor or hospital, but it is already possible to take certain measures on the bus, for example, to prepare for surgery or to take some tests in advance. When this is about electronic communication and devices, I'm gonna open my phone. During this debate, I received an e-mail from Oulu which raises one concern, and I would also like to record it in the minutes and refer it to the committee. It says here: "You are just discussing the traffic curve, and taxis, among other things, have a lot of wallpaper." The person says: "As a disabled person who is blindly blind to me, I am interested in whether the person who receives a taxi permit has the know-how requirements, at least for those who drive these disabled service drivers. At least for the most difficult groups of people with disabilities, it is not right to become a driver who has never encountered, for example, the severely disabled, blind or so on. The safe services of people with disabilities will continue to be guaranteed, right? That's what I'm worried about." This is a good one, which has just become a concern of the citizen, and I hope that the committee will also take a position on these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u115	Mr President! Mr Taavitsainen gave a very vigorous speech there, but I would ask, Mr Taavitsainen, if you would be able to clarify if I did not understand exactly what you are saying about the Finns. You mean that we've been defending the domesticity of taxis?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u116	Mr President! A little to this same theme as Mr Tavio: There is another night in progress when others are trying to deal with common issues and the Social Democrats are repeating the slogans that they have invented in their group society to call the Finns fundamental. I have to wonder where the Socialist option is. It has already become clear that all changes are bad and the current situation in the taxi must be maintained. But how would you reform this system? Does Mr Taavitsainen think that it is a good starting point for reform to ask the current entrepreneurs of one city what change is not going to happen to them in their current business, or should we also listen to the users of services? Is this another "chocolate for entrepreneurs" project?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u117	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u118	Mr President! The important work carried out by the government throughout the parliamentary term is to rationalise tasks and legislation, i.e. to dismantle regulations and standards. I have always used to say thank you to the government in this Chamber when the time comes. This reform aims to reorganise government financial management in the most efficient and high-quality way possible. Policies will be harmonised and harmonised policies will save time and money. Savings do not always mean a deterioration in services, even in this area. It can also mean more efficient services. The aim of the reform is relatively small: 8 million for this term of government, but around 4 million for each year from 19 onwards. But an example is the most important one. This highlights the need to turn all the stones in search of savings from public policies that are not taken away from a small person. This is the line we have to continue with on other matters. You can get zeros on those numbers if you have a will.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u119	The 9th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, to which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Administrative Committee and the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities must deliver an opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u120	Mr President! With regard to this bill, we should now stop and think about what is going on in this country and what is being decided here. We have before us a proposal which puts people legally resident in Finland in a different position and which, in my view, undermines the fundamental principles of the rule of law and human rights. When this proposal is implemented, it will lead to an official division of the two-storey population when a hierarchical system of social security and, therefore, fundamental rights is built. When unemployed job seekers are divided into two different categories in practice on the basis of nationality, I believe that structural racism is at stake. After making family reunification virtually impossible and eliminating humanitarian protection — and after the Finnish Immigration Service has tightened up its country-specific policies and interpretation of internal flight, thus multiplying negative asylum decisions — the government is therefore going to take further steps to undermine the financial situation of the people who have been granted a residence permit. Mr President! In other words, the Government proposes that people who have received a residence permit should be paid integration support in Finland in future instead of labour market support. Integration support for foreigners would amount to only 90% of the basic daily allowance paid to Finns. This means that people are placed in unequal positions on the basis of their presence in the country. Unemployed jobseekers who have received a positive residence permit are treated less well than those who have been born or acquired citizenship. The Government bill states that the objective of the bill is to measure the basic income security of immigrants at a sustainable level, taking into account the state of public finances and the national economy. The aim is to reduce the number of factors leading asylum seekers in Finland. The basic security of one group of people is being cut below the general minimum level and the decision is therefore justified by purely budgetary savings and by reduced entry. In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, the Ministry assumes that the increase in the number of positive residence permit decisions will also increase the number of family reunification applications leading to a positive decision. However, as I said, family reunification has been made virtually impossible by the tight forecast of these last few years. For this year, an estimated number of applications for family reunification has been calculated from 17000 to 3000. Such a violent drip tells us how violent the tightening of the line has been. The impact of this proposal on the adequacy of the basic security or fundamental rights of recipients of aid has not really been assessed. More broadly, it is a question of valuing the fundamental rights of citizens in relation to the need to balance public finances. In the past, criminals, mental - health patients, and over - debters, among others, had no equal rights over others. We are now starting to weaken fundamental rights for immigrants and those living without citizenship. Mr President! However, this proposal is also about more than just a period of budgetary exhaustion. Indeed, the explanatory memorandum acknowledges that the planned savings may be lower than indicated, as the lower aid will be reflected in the increasing expenditure on income support, especially in areas with high rent levels. That is why, in my view, at the heart of this government's proposal is the view of people as being unequal. Those who come from elsewhere do not have the same rights as those who were born here. Those who are forced to flee their homes from war, persecution or torture do not deserve equal treatment with Finnish citizens. The government proposes fundamental rights for people who are already in a position of uncertainty vis-à-vis the native population. It is quite possible that this proposal is in breach of the terms of the Geneva Convention on Refugees, according to which refugees legally present in the country must be treated equally before the law with the citizens of the country. It is also possible that the government's proposal contradicts the European Union's provisions on the free movement of labour, as the government's definition of immigrants would also include citizens from other EU countries. Mr President! This path chosen by the government is dangerous and jeopardises the principle of equal fundamental rights for all. Hopefully, those who are particularly concerned about the position of low-income and socially disadvantaged people will see the size of the social threats involved in such a bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u121	Mr President! Today, the government proposes to amend the Unemployment Protection Act so that in future, an unemployed foreign citizen would receive less unemployment support than an unemployed Finnish citizen and that in future, an unemployed foreign citizen would be paid integration aid instead of labour market support, amounting to 90% of the basic daily allowance. Unfortunately, this law is another good indication of what happens when the desire to divide us into "us" and "them" drives us over everything else. There has been a lack of heart and sense of preparation. I'll start with the heart. People are equal, that is what our constitution says. People are equal, regardless of their origin, before the law. The question is that everyone is appreciated, that everyone has value. In addition to equality, it is a matter of livelihood. Don't we all eat as much? Don't we all need as much support when we need safety nets? Equal support has been a sign that everyone living in Finland is equal. A number of organisations have been concerned about this bill. Yes, an alarm clock should ring more than once when the performance raises concerns in organizations such as the SPR, the Refugee Aid and the Human Rights League. The government's proposal lacks the heart, but it also lacks reason. The government justifies its proposal by saying that those who emigrated would somehow help to push more people into work than others. The employment difficulties of immigrants are mainly due to reasons independent of them. There are often structural obstacles to employment, such as the attitudes of employers and the fact that those who have just come into the country often do not have networks here as much as those who have been here for a long time. If a potential employer favours a person of a different colour than a white person, for example, Finnish, is the problem of employment the fault of an immigrant? Does it help that the life of the person who emigrated would be worse financially than it is now? Well, there's a lot of talk about savings. They're not coming either. In fact, Kela anticipates that there will be little savings, as expenditure on income support will increase as expenditure on labour market support decreases. Kela also estimates that this will also be a processing cost, since now the same people must also submit an application for income support. So why such lack of reason? It may be that the cause is, in fact, not only ideology, but also haste. STM only gave the referral a week. In all this, it smells like a rush to get caught up in some way to show the voters of an unnamed government party that immigrants are being poked with something. Well, this is expected of the Finns of Finland, but it is, of course, a shame for the Coalition Party and the Centre that they will submit to another dreary immigration policy. In particular, the coalition, which plays on two wheels on these issues, is in front of an exact place of reflection in relation to the whole immigration debate and immigration policy. I think we should involve our minds and hearts in this performance and abandon it. That would be wise. I hope, in particular, that the representatives of the Assembly who are here will take a position on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u122	At this stage, it is possible to use the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u123	Mr President! Of course, there is a great deal to be said about this bill, and critical aspects are also in order, as is the case with savings laws in general. According to the government's proposal, this would bring savings of around EUR 20 million over three years, I think. But I actually asked for the floor to correct the unfortunate mistake made in Mr Yanar's speech. In fact, he set up the first part of his speech to divide people into Finns and foreigners. However, as the Government's proposal on page 11 shows, this proposed integration support may also apply to Finnish citizens in certain situations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u124	Mr President! In this context, it is necessary to recall Article 19 of the Finnish Constitution, which guarantees equal rights to income and social security for all. It is not a civil right, it is a human right. President! In this context, it is also necessary to recall these potential savings that the government is seeking with this proposal. It will go as far as the Kankkula well in this respect, because these people who receive this integration aid will, by all accounts, receive and also rightly apply for income support — that is, from one end of the way, expenditure will only increase. And, President, thirdly, I would also like to remind you of the government's experiment on basic incomes with great energy. Was that not the idea of a universal and equal basic income for all? How does the idea of such integration support fit in with it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u125	Mr President! Yes, this is something that you can always think about with emotion, like all the things in the world. I would also like to say that it would be great if all people in the world could be guaranteed the same level of basic security as Finns, but unfortunately I still find it completely unrealistic. As far as the point is concerned, I would like to hear a little more sense from the opposition in the forthcoming speeches, because that constant appeal to equality and human rights is slowly losing its meaning in Finland, because you use it in every matter and in every debate. For example, if a person is convicted of a crime in prison, it does not mean that everyone has to go to prison because of equality. So just think about that equality suit a little bit more.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u126	Värderade Talman! Mr Tavio did hit the nail: equality and human rights are really losing their meaning. When you look at the work of the government, if you have a choice to make structural reform or party politics, time and again you go there to party politics. It was about social reform, employment policy, the transport beam — always heading in the direction of party policy. You'll understand that when you look at a particular party's endorsements. When we talk about integration, what is the only thing that matters? The only key question is: will this contribute to integration or not? As you read this, the aim has been to create basic income security for immigrants at a sustainable level, taking into account the state of public finances and the national economy, and to reduce the driving factors and to create a system in which support is in principle lower than the level of labour market support. Are these reasonable goals? Are these going to lead to good integration?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u127	Mr President! Many colleagues have already commented very well on this issue of fundamental rights. I remember the time, although I was not a Member of Parliament at the time, but still a citizen, when there was a constitutional People's Party at the right hand of the House in Finland. The question now arises as to whether a party in this Chamber should be designated as a non-constitutional party.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u130	Mr President! The expressions here have suffered inflation: The old story of yelling at the wolf until no one believes that the wolf comes from it also applies to this withdrawal of the Constitution into every single issue as a political argument. That's what the left-wing opposition and the RKP do a lot. I would like to point out that this is not a matter of last resort social benefit, but of unemployment benefit, which is two different things. If a person applies for income support, it also takes into account his or her property and other income, the property that several asylum seekers have in evidence. They do not need last-minute income support if they have other assets.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u131	To this part of the debate, Mr Andersson and then Mr Adlercreutz and Mr Yanar too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u132	Mr President! I'll take this argument from Mr. Hassi. So if you look at this purely from the point of view of making savings, this is an extremely ineffective law. As stated in this opinion by Kela, this probably will not bring about any very significant savings in public finances due to an increase in income support expenditure. So what remains is a law which is extremely unequal, and I hope that the representatives of the Coalition Party will now comment on this very aspect of this law and how you will react to it. In practice, therefore, we are now creating a hierarchical system in which unemployed job seekers are treated differently. In other words, for a certain number of unemployed job seekers, lower social security is paid on the basis of their purely resident status, and there is a genuine risk that this is in conflict with the principle of equality of the Constitution. And as far as human rights and equality are concerned, I have never personally experienced such a great need to speak for these values and things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u133	Herr Talman! Constitution, human rights, equality — those forever ugly words, or whatever it is. Indeed. Kela is of the opinion that this does not save money, and if you can still say that it does not contribute to integration, then I believe that this is the wrong law. This is wrong legislation and should be withdrawn. So I ask the delegates: if this does not save, will you then push for this to be withdrawn, or are you now at the mercy of a government partner? If this does not contribute to integration, if this does not save, then this makes no sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u134	Mr President! At the outset, the question to Mrs Zyskowicz is: what is the situation in which, as you said, Finnish citizens are covered by integration support? I want an exact answer to this, because none of us are in that view. The first argument against this law is reason, which means that Kela says this does not bring savings. Then why are we doing this? The second argument is, of course, this equality, which is a curse word for some. The Finns are apparently opposed to the Constitution. That's quite something. But this will lead to a situation where, when a foreign citizen who has lived in Finland for 20 years is unemployed, he or she will have to receive less security than we Finnish citizens. Is this right? I don't think so. Why does the coalition agree to such an inconceivable ideological choice when this does not bring savings? This raises some really big questions about the coalition's government policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u135	Congressman Tavio, if you'll excuse me for a moment. I understood Mr Zyskowicz's willingness to make a reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u136	Mr President! Mr Yanar raised a direct question as to the situation in which this law could apply to Finnish citizens. In this respect, I refer to page 11 of the Government proposal before us, the last paragraph of which states, inter alia, that 'the proposed integration allowance could also be paid to a person who has Finnish citizenship'. This is very unusual, but it will then tell us what kind of case this might be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u137	Mr President! This proposal is part of a large-scale government action on account of a more responsible immigration policy. [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President : Representatives, Member of ParliamentHowever, there has been a speech here. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u148	Mr President! I urge Mr Tavio to travel to Greece or Germany, for example, if he is in the impression that most immigrants have come to Finland for asylum. Or Jordan, Turkey or Lebanon, for example. It should also be noted that this limitation now applies to those who come to Finland other than those who come here on the basis of humanitarian protection as it were, that is to say, those who have moved to Finland on the basis of marriage will also be subject to this surgery.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u151	Mr President! Representative Tavio now suggested that somehow the majority of refugees who came to Europe would be headed for Finland. This is really far from the truth. More than half of the world's little over 21 million refugees are in ten countries, the largest of which are Turkey, Pakistan, Lebanon, Iran, Ethiopia, Jordan, Kenya, Chad and Uganda. In terms of population, the number of refugees is by far the highest in Lebanon, followed by Jordan, where there are more than five times more in proportion to the population than in Sweden.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u152	Mr President! I think that the Greens and the Left interpret this number of asylum seekers from my speech in a rather unusual way, because I meant, of course, that there will be an extremely large number of asylum seekers in Europe in proportion to the number of people in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u153	Mr President! We have said many arguments here, and we did not get any resistance to this equality and the fact that this is not going to be any savings. But I would particularly like to remind Mr Tavio that this is going to apply to all foreign citizens, at least, and this is not just about asylum seekers. Once again, a person who has worked in Finland for 20 years paid taxes to Finland when they become unemployed falls into the category of 10 per cent less unemployment benefit. Is this right? I really don't think so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u154	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u155	Mr President! The first response to the recent debatable remarks by Mr Hassi is that if the majority of refugees are in a neighbouring country of conflict, then exactly what we expect will be done under international agreements. In other words, the starting point is that people are seeking refuge in the nearest country they can find refuge in, and the purpose of these refugee agreements has never been for people to go on a popular journey all over Europe. Congressman Yanari, as a comment to that parity: Do you want a law to be passed that would put asylum seekers in a different position than other people? Would it be fair and constitutional,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u162	Mr President! Article 19 of the Constitution of Finland In Finland, you can secure the right to social security, the right to the necessary income. This section of the law does not distinguish foreign citizens living in Finland from Finnish citizens. It is therefore human rights, not civil rights, which are highlighted. It would therefore be appropriate to be cautious about changes in the law which effectively put people living here in a different position on the basis of nationality. They affect not only those so-called gravitational factors but also the people who live here legally. And how, for example, does the performance treat long absent Finns? Is there any clarity about that? Influencing the so-called attraction factors in this way is questionable. Diversification of income is discrimination. Furthermore, the proposal should not achieve its objective of saving expenditure. Cutting the level of labour market support increases income support expenditure — that is, savings at the same time, expenditure elsewhere. In view of the fact that immigrants mostly live in large growth centres, especially in the capital region, where housing expenditure is high, it means that Kela's income support customer is subject to large expenses. There will be no savings. And again: Was not the government supposed to promote basic income, the same and equal for all? One of the many dents of the foundation is precisely the inadequacy of the free movement of people. With this proposal, the government recognises that it does not have a strategy for implementing basic income. The integration programme adopted last spring by the Social Democrats states that income schemes for migrants must be clear and consistent. President! The unemployed who have received a residence permit should not be separated from others by paying lower subsidies than labour market support. Inequality should not be increased. People living in Finland must have an equal status. In accordance with equal treatment and the Constitution, equal housing-based social security must continue to be respected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u163	Mr President! In that debut, I already made some of these points, but still put together. Colleagues have already illustrated this aspect of the Constitution and fundamental rights with merit, so I will not add any additional points of view to it. But I would like to remind you that this year, too, more than 3,000 people have died in the Mediterranean. If we consider what our generation of decision-makers will be remembered for and what the generations will be asking about, what you did and ask about our moral responsibility, then most likely such questions will be asked as to how we treated those people who were in distress running across the Mediterranean to Europe, and what we have done to help refugees who are closer to the countries of conflict on the other side of the Mediterranean. I have already said that the ten countries in which the majority of the world's refugees are present are mainly among the poorest countries in the world. The largest recipient countries are Turkey, 2.5 million refugees, Pakistan, 1.5 million refugees, Lebanon, more than one million refugees, Iran, nearly one million refugees, Ethiopia, more than 700,000 refugees, Jordan, more than 600,000 refugees, and among the ten largest countries also Kenya, Chad and Uganda. The largest number of refugees per 1000 population is found in Lebanon, where there are more than 200 refugees per 1000 inhabitants. There's over 80 in Jordan. In our neighbouring country, Sweden, where for about 20 years there has been a tenfold increase in the number of asylum seekers compared to Finland in the same period, the ratio is 15 per 1000 inhabitants. If we look at the situation in July this year, Germany is by far the largest recipient country in Europe and the recipient countries larger than Finland are Austria, Switzerland, Serbia, Sweden, Bulgaria, the Netherlands, Belgium and Albania. In other words, the notion that we are somehow a particularly attractive country for asylum seekers is simply not true. Well, of course, Mr Mäkelä's speech might have been interpreted as saying that when we are here in the background, no one should come here. Well, international agreements, however, oblige all countries that have ratified these agreements, including Finland. But I would also like to point out that, although, for understandable reasons, when refugee flows come from the south of the Mediterranean, it must be attractive for many people to think that the countries of the south of Europe should receive everyone first and foremost, the rules and principles should be such that they can be complied with and, according to them, live in different situations. We have a long eastern border with Russia, and I am sure that in Finland many experts are quite at the heart of what Russia's development will be like in the next few years and in the next few decades. There may well be a situation in the future when we will be the kind of country that wants to share the burden of refugee flows between European countries and EU countries. Other colleagues have already lauded the fact that the only real purpose of this bill is to send out the message that we are tightening up asylum policy, because it is now the only thing for one government party to suggest to its own supporters that we have achieved something when all the other election promises have to be failed. However, concerning the financial promises involved in this bill, Kela has already stated that they are unfounded. Finally, I think we all agree that the better the greater the number of foreigners — asylum seekers and others — to find a job, but the best way to promote it is to break down the barriers to the employment of foreigners in this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u164	Mr President! The Government's proposal is interesting because if you think about what the laws are for, it is thought that there must be a reasonable basis for them, but it is said here at the beginning of the proposal, as has been said several times here today very carefully, that one of the reasons for this is to be a savings law, because the state economy demands it and so that the public finances can withstand this immigration, while at the same time reducing Finland's attractiveness as an immigration of asylum seekers. And, as has been said many times here, this legislation, these proposals seem rather absurd, disproportionate, inefficient in relation to the two. I understand that some attempt has now been made to wrap this up with something else, as it were, which could be acceptable, but it has already become clear here today that there is a partial proposal here which is not possible: as if one could expect a Finnish citizen not to move back to Finland in a normal way. I understand that this too has been the goal so far of attracting returnees to Finland, but perhaps this is the goal of this government that no one should be lured back to Finland. If you look at these figures on asylum seekers all over the world, just as Mr Hassi has said here, in fact, 6% are looking for Europe, and even though these figures have seemed rather large in Europe, it cannot be said on a global scale that they are very large. If you look inside Europe, for example this year the majority of applicants will apply to Germany: 80% of Syrian applicants, 65% of Afghan applicants and 81% of Iraqi applicants. Acceptance rates in the EU: the acceptance rates for Syrian asylum seekers in the rest of Europe are around 98% and for Iraqis 61%, while in Finland it is thought that three quarters will be negative. For some reason, we judge them quite differently from others. Well, on these grounds you could imagine that since we have such a tight sieve, at least within the government would then be found for those who pass through this tight sieve of ours, a little heart to treat them with the ability to survive here and live here as much as possible as other people. But apparently this is not the intention. In view of the state’s economic situation and the dismantling of standards, we now have to build a parallel system for some thousands of people, as stated in Kela’s opinion. I'm just wondering what it's gonna cost and why. I feel absolutely absurd. They will also be obliged to define an immigrant in a completely new way, in a completely different way than in any other aid decision. They're against this. I cannot understand that this could bring savings. Kela also says that since income security cannot be regulated unequally, this means that these costs will be passed on to the municipalities, so they will not see — and in my opinion Kela is usually a pretty good expert in these particulars — that there could be nothing to save here. If that were even an acceptable reason for this law. What is the motive for this government law? I think there seems to be only a need to believe, to maintain the idea that Finland is being invaded indefinitely, by an enormous number of strangers, as Mr Tavio said, 'losing' and which we 'losing'. I think that these are rather demeaning and very questionable words that want to say something quite different than what was being said here. Let's talk about Hungary and Viktor Orbán's policy: Viktor Orbán is trying to prevent them from having to spend the money to receive the 1200 asylum seekers involved in the intra-corporate transfer to which the EU is obliged. But with the money he spent on this election, he could have shared 31,000 euros each. This is a bit of a policy that costs what it costs, as long as we just scare strangers and asylum seekers and make Finland as disgusting as possible that no one wants to move here anymore. So far, at least, I understand that industry has thought that immigration is needed and that Finland should be attractive. We are proud that we have a good education system and a good country to live in, and it is quite difficult to close the sustainability gap if we are not in some way able to increase immigration. This line of government is absolutely unsustainable, in which we want to exclude Finland from the rest of the world. In Sweden, economists have proven that immigration increases economic growth, increases jobs, and, for example, when assessing Brexit, experts from our own Ministry of Finance estimate that the greatest risk to the English economy is that immigration will be stopped because it has been one of the very foundations of their economic growth. Apart from the arguments of principle in favour of rejecting this government's proposal, I hope that reason and reason can also prevail here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u165	Mr President! Yes, there are many things that we disagree with in this Chamber. This is one of them, and I appreciate people's opinions, but I do not understand that things are justified by information that is not true. I am concerned about Parliament's authority and the debates in this Chamber if, for example, this relative number of asylum seekers passes through this Chamber in those words, as it has just been said here in a speech that it is the largest in Finland — because it is not true, not by any kind of mathematics, not by any comparison. That's why I'm worried. The second reason I am concerned about is the preparation of the law. This question, which is of fundamental importance, is dealt with in such a way that it is given a week when we have general guidelines for all laws, that it must be at least 6 to 8 weeks and that it is requested from a sufficient number of different parties. Now four other ministries and Kela have been asked, no one else. In other words, the drafting of legislation does not provide the basis, as has been the case in the past, for good manners and for the preparation of good law-making as necessary, that is to say, for all those who are essentially involved in the sphere of its law. Now, here's what's going on. In my opinion, this sounds like the government's logic that when unemployment benefits are cut, people go to work faster. I think that this sounds the same and it is not true if we think that all the people I meet, who are unemployed, will go to work when there is a job. I therefore suspect that the situation is also the same for asylum seekers or those who have received a residence permit, in the same way as for all Finns. The fact that security is undermined does not create more jobs, but creates problems and distress for people. The reasons for this saving have already been set aside on the basis of the rapporteurs, i.e. increasing income support expenditure and presumably housing support. There is therefore no economic justification for this law, as there will be no savings. Of course, it is a good idea to pay attention to this assessment of how the housing issue will be assessed by means of total consideration, but, as has already been said here, this would apply not only to those who have received a residence permit but also to other people who move to Finland from other countries. Nor can I support that at that point. Then there is this concern that why should it always be so respected or taken into account or used as an argument? I'm glad we have that Constitution. Fortunately, we have the last rivet in this house where we can be seen as the basis of our legislation and that it guarantees equal treatment for people. Here, Article 6 of the Constitution states that people are equal before the law and that no one should be placed in a different position on grounds relating to a person without an acceptable basis. That is what has been written, and I hope, although I know that some groups in this government have criticism of the Constitution, that this is not even the point where we are going to try to change. For these many reasons I do not believe that in this way the law in any case in this house is going to proceed quite easily. When we were working on our own integration programme in the Social Democratic Party, we wrote on it last autumn so that the income systems for immigrants must be clear and uniform, the law supporting integration is tied to the daily allowance level of labour market support and those living in Finland must have equal status. This is the line we thought we would follow from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u166	Mr President! I still have some doubts as to which agreements Mr Hassi calls for us to take asylum seekers through eight safe countries — asylum seekers whose movements through these countries are based on a deliberate violation of the Schengen Agreement for all these countries. This is not a question of quota refugees; it is a completely different issue: those who come to Finland, most of whom are found to be unfounded applicants, see asylum decisions that have entered into force. There have been calls for more savings from this bill, criticisms that there will not be enough savings. Well, I would also like to see more savings, but the thing is that we have to prepare the laws here on the basis of the constitutions that are now in force. Now that the Constitution has been discussed here, there are, admittedly, a few entries in the Constitution that I would say will lead to a questionable basis, such as who is entitled to the rights guaranteed by the Constitution. Do they belong to the whole world or to people living in Finland or to whom, Finnish citizens? This is a very fragile basis, as has been the case recently with the debate on income support for the undocumented. Or the fact that even the perpetrators of the worst crimes cannot, in all cases, be returned to their countries of origin is a very questionable constitutional record for the general sense of justice. I wonder who put them there once. After all, the Constitution has changed, and it has not always been there. Mr President! Is it not ultimately the purpose of the state to control the interests of its own citizens? Should it be that the Finnish Constitution, in full measure, only applies to Finns, and should it be much more difficult to obtain citizenship that these rights would not be so easy to obtain? This is an interesting question that is being put before us in the face of migratory flows. This phenomenon is by no means the end. What can we afford? Who can we support?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u167	President! Congressman Mäkelä asked me what contracts I was referring to. The Schengen Agreement is one of these, and the Schengen Agreement, contrary to what you said or suggested, does not say that the asylum seeker must apply for asylum in the first EU country to which he enters, but says that the application must be processed in the first country where the application has been submitted. In other words, the Schengen Agreement does not at all prohibit the passage of some Schengen countries before submitting an asylum application. In addition, of course, we have international refugee agreements which oblige people to provide security to those who meet certain criteria and who are much older than the Schengen Agreement.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u168	Mr Mäkelä, who caused this debate, has the floor for a reply. Mr Tavio will have the floor in a moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u169	Mr President! As a further clarification, the fact that these people were able to move around Europe was due to non-compliance with the Schengen Agreement, but the fact that they did not apply for asylum in the first country to which they arrived was due to non-compliance with the Dublin Agreement. In any case, the fact that these people are here is due to the fact that other countries in Europe have not complied with their own international agreements. This is an undeniable fact.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u170	Mr President! As all Members of Parliament in this House, whose parties have also served as government parties, are well aware, the starting point in our system is that the representatives of the government parties support the unanimous proposals of the government here in Parliament. The unanimous government proposals come from different starting points, but it is clear that something in the government is more important to one government party than another and that all government parties must, in order for government cooperation to be successful, naturally get their own aspects through government proposals. The opinion of the Assembly on this bill is what has been written in the Government's proposal, namely that this saves more than EUR 20 million in public money over three years, according to the estimate in this government's proposal, and so is what has been written in the motion, that this is compatible with our Constitution and also with its Act on Equality. However, important points have been raised in this debate to ensure that this bill does not actually save public money, and also well-founded questions as to whether this is compatible with the Equality Act. It is clear that if it turns out during the parliamentary procedure that the starting point on which the coalition has been prepared to support this motion in the government is not true, then of course we will have to assess it in a new light.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u171	Mr President! The SDP and the Greens have proved themselves once again champions of misunderstanding. Perhaps that is the quality that the opposition demands or benefits from a little. Firstly, I have spoken specifically about the disproportionate number of asylum seekers arriving in Finland. And now, as a clarification to Mr Paatero and Mr Hassi, and Mr Yanark's question is this: there are 26 countries in the EU, and that asylum crisis, the migration crisis,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u176	Mr President! I have to say that on one point Mr Mäkelä was right, that is, what I said earlier about the Schengen Agreement really concerns Dublin. The Dublin Agreement says that the asylum seeker's application must be dealt with in the first country in which he submits his application, but it certainly does not oblige the asylum seeker, nor the first EU country in which this applicant arrives, to submit it to the first European country of arrival.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u177	Mr President! Mr Zyskowicz's speech just made it very clear what the situation of the Assembly is in this regard. In other words, Mr Zyskowicz said freely in English that 'we are in the government, and the Finns of Peru want only to drive these things, and we will have to remain silent when these happen'. I find it shameful that a party such as the Coalition Party should be able to remain silent when a law is adopted that is not equal and, on the other hand, does not make any economic sense. In that sense, I am very disappointed by these explanations, which come from the point of view of the assembly. I have very many friends who, for example, sympathise with the National Coalition Party, but see that in this government cooperation the Coalition Party has really remained silent in front of the Finns. This seems to be a fact, and it will become apparent here too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u178	Mr President! Indeed, I lectured here on equality to give an example: in all the countries of the world, the citizen of the country in question is always in a better position, i.e. the citizen and the non-citizen are not in absolute equality. The nation state is therefore created for its citizens. This is already going to this elementary-level political doctrine. To Mr Hassi: Thank you for correcting that previous slip on the Schengen Agreement, which you were wrong about. Thank you for fixing it. It is, in itself, very ironic that you raised it here, because the Schengen Agreement has specifically intended to safeguard the external borders of the Schengen area, which is precisely what it is to safeguard. It is precisely the aim of the precise visa controls within the EU, within the Schengen area, which are still being carried out, but the asylum controls have gone. Then you brought up this Dublin II regulation, and that is the correct regulation that you were going to interpret, but that is the same interpretation that went wrong. The purpose of the regulation is precisely — in other words, it has been — asylum from the first EU country to which a person arrives. That system has only failed, and that is why the new regulation is under way. The aim was therefore border control and controlled immigration, not such a wave of migrants.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u179	Mr President! What has, for example, been said here by Mr Yanar and many others that the assembly would now be in a state of disarray before the Finns on this issue, now the opposition should decide who is in trouble and who is in front of, because then, on the other hand, it is often claimed from the left that the Finns of Peru are the threshold in various economic policy reforms and taxi laws and who knows where. So I think this is a completely childish pecking in this authoritative Chamber, and this should not be the case. The Government Programme is always a compromise on the parties' wills and economic realities. That should also be recognised by the opposition. But I would challenge Mr Hassi's view on the interpretation of the Dublin and Schengen agreements. It cannot be that way, when, for example, Finland is the external border of Schengen, that we allow people to come here without proper papers, people who do not have a visa to enter the Schengen area. After all, we are violating the Schengen rules if we allow these people to move freely into the Schengen area. Yes, we need to check if they have the papers, and our border guards are checking people to see if they have the papers. If they do not have papers, the only basis on which they can obtain a temporary residence permit for Finland is probably the application for asylum. Why would Greece not do this? Why would other countries not do this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u180	Mr President! I am not going to continue to talk about the Schengen Agreement. I would just like to say that the allegations made here by the representatives of the People's Republic of Finland that the number of asylum seekers arriving in our country in relation to the population is somewhat high, are clearly wrong and that the figures I have previously presented tell us that. But I can send you links if you're interested.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u181	Mr President! This debate is probably coming to an end, but it could certainly be said that Finland is the borderline of the EU, and it could come as a day that we too need solidarity. The line advocated by the People's Party and, of course, by this government is also in conflict with this. If you don't want to be human, you should be logical. It may be a day that Finland, too, needs the help of others on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u182	The 10th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-10-04-ps-94.u183	Mr President! The Government's proposal confirms the unemployment insurance contributions for 2017 and includes a change in the burden sharing agreed in the Competitiveness Agreement, whereby 0.45 percentage points of the employer's share of that contribution is transferred to the employee. This proposal will therefore reduce the employer's contributions next year, and I very much hope that this change will bring more of the desired jobs. Mr President! After all, employees and employers now pay earnings-related unemployment benefit, whether a member of the register or not. These are those tax-related contributions which are not taxes but which the employer and employee must nevertheless pay. I would hope that, in future, the employer would have only one employee to pay on top of his salary and that the employee would pay only one tax instead of two other taxes. I think this would be a place for society to break standards and save money.
