ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 2/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u2	Mr President! In the government's proposal to amend the Nature Conservation Act, there are justifiable starting points. The rational use of natural resources is acceptable and, therefore, reducing the administrative burden on the use of natural resources is a welcome starting point. It is also difficult to argue with the proposal's aim of deregulation. However, the main objective of the proposed reform, which is directly stated in the proposal, is to adapt the statutory tasks of business, transport and environmental centres to the human resources available. This must not be the starting point for regulation. That cannot be an acceptable objective of regulation. We couldn't think about it. Every one of us, the President-in-Office, understands that the scarcity of resources always affects what is actually achieved. However, it is one thing at the time of drafting the law and the adoption of the law to say that the target is being reduced due to a lack of human resources. Mr President! There has been a debate in the committee on the reform of the regulation on the protection of the union squirrel in particular. The proposal is based on taking care of the legal security of landowners and is counterbalanced by concerns about the deterioration in the protection of union squirrels. It is easy to agree with the majority of the committee in order to adopt the proposal. The proposal does not compromise the endangered species, the union squirrels. On the other hand, the result is that forest protection becomes a more acceptable activity in which nature conservation can no longer be painted. President! In these words, I agree with this majority position of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u3	Madam President! One of the main objectives of Juha Sipilä's Government is to reduce unnecessary standards and reduce administrative burdens and streamline all regulation. This is a rather small bill that we parliamentarians are facing today, but this is yet another right step in this reduction in unnecessary regulation. I am also very happy that the government programme's entry in order to strengthen the protection of property and improve the legal protection of landowners will become so real and will finally and finally have some protection for forest owners and landowners in this country for a long time. In addition to this emotional organism called the union squirrel, it has to be said that although the union squirrel has been protected, the strains of the union squirrel are quite good in Finland. In the case of a union squirrel, you can talk about over-protection in Finland, and this is also a good bill in that sense. Mr President! Nature can be protected and nature can be used and enjoyed with reasonable common sense and urban senses, and this bill takes it forward for its part. I support the committee's position.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u4	Mr President! In 2014, the Ely Centre has used approximately 4.5 person-years to prepare decisions on restrictions on breeding and resting-places for union squirrels. However, the demarcation decisions have focused on a very small number of Finnish union squirrels. The process of demarcation of breeding and resting sites is not estimated to be relevant to the development of the stock of the species, but, above all, should be influenced by wider changes in the landscape level. In any case, the destruction of breeding and resting sites is prohibited by law, regardless of the decision to restrict them. The effectiveness of the demarcation procedure is weak because there are natural variations in the presence of cormorants. Currently, the Finnish Environment Agency delivers up-to-date information on the breeding and resting-place of the union squirrels of the Ely Centres to the Forest Centre twice a year. When up-to-date information on sites is also available to landowners, the use of forests can be coordinated with protection. In the future, the provision of up-to-date information needs to be better ensured, and landowners need to be informed of their obligations and instructed in the clearing process. This will improve the legal protection of landowners and avoid lengthy legal proceedings and reduce the cost of protection. The demarcation procedure puts a disproportionate burden on the staff of the Ely Centre and reduces resources for other tasks. The Government’s aim is to streamline and dismantle unnecessary regulation. The public sector has grown over the years and there is a lot of duplication of work that is neither necessary nor affordable. However, the decision under Article 72a of the Nature Conservation Act has not been able to definitively resolve the protection of the union squirrel in the site of use, since the prohibition of Article 49 of the Law is in force despite the decision. Forestry is an important production sector in Finland, and it is not wise to unnecessarily hinder the production of wood and prolong the start of fellings by processing, while the legislation in any case adequately protects endangered species. Mr President! It has been found that the plight of endangered mammals has been eased, and even the flying squirrel has to keep an eye on such things as the bear and the lynx, and the situation of the species has not deteriorated any longer. Of course, the use of forests and the change in forest structure remain a threat to the union squirrel, but, as has been said, the legislative amendment only removes the slow demarcation procedure — the ban on the destruction and weakening of nests remains the same. The abolition of the restriction procedure is not estimated to have financial implications for private landowners or companies and the compensation rules remain unchanged, i.e. it would continue to be possible to obtain full compensation from the State for the significant disadvantages caused by the ban.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u5	Madam President! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection rightly states in its opinion that "where guidance is practical and policies are well established, operators have a good chance of putting successful protection measures into practice". If the minister concerned were on the spot, I would ask him — of course, representatives of the government parties can also answer for him — what kind of action the government is taking to ensure that forestry operators will have up-to-date and easily accessible information about the breeding and resting places of the union squirrels in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u6	Mr President! I propose that the introductory phrase of this law be adopted in the form raised in the committee's objection, which deletes the words'repealed by Article 72a of the Nature Conservation Act'. as set out in Law 1587/2009.' The amendment I tabled concerns the flying squirrel. In other respects, this law is quite appropriate. The facilitations or lightening of the landscape markings on nature conservation areas that the government is proposing in modern times, when using online maps, are quite justified. On the other hand, I do not agree with the majority of the committee on this issue of union squirrels. The committee's consultations have made it clear that this is a matter of savings law, which is to reduce the workload of the Ely Centres to some extent. However, the saving effect is questionable because, on the other hand, this change increases the obligation of the Ely Centres to provide advice, because the legal obligations of forest owners and forest workers do not change at all. For all those who, in fact, are now in line and on a few lines, actually would like the protection of the union squirrel to be dismantled, I would say that although the union squirrel is no longer classified as being endangered but as being kept on the watch, the latter figure had fallen by more than 20%, i.e. the stock is still decreasing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u7	I would point out that the proposals will be made tomorrow when the vote is taken. But let's keep talking.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u8	Madam President! It is good that the Ministry of the Environment and the Committee on the Environment are removing unnecessary work, unnecessary land labelling. Today, indeed, electronic maps are available and, in fact, future legislation will make these labels even better. We have a lot of work to do since the laser beaming of forests, and we will be able to find these environmental values even better in the future. As far as the surveillance of the flying squirrel is concerned, it was estimated that the flying squirrel was included in the EU list of endangered species, that there were 60,000 flying squirrels, and when the inventory was carried out, it was found that there were 240000 nesting females. Quite often, the female also has a mate, so it is good that the union squirrel has been placed on the list of persons to keep an eye on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u9	Madam President! Indeed, this union squirrel issue is now in the right proportions. In time, when it was included in the list of endangered species, how did the study at that time show that it was endangered? There were at least 300,000 females in Finland at that time. So it was not endangered then, and it is not now. That's right. Let's go in the right direction. There's no need for protection. As we know, the union squirrel manages under very different circumstances. The union squirrels living next to the central school in Ilomantsi in the forest with a shooting range on one side, the Vapo power plant shouts 24 hours a day, is a big school and a ski resort. The flying squirrels inside this area are doing well, so they can probably eat under normal forest conditions. Here, as with nature conservation cases in general, fear is fomented among people that everything is at risk. Nothing's compromised. There is no threat to us in this country but self-righteousness and the fact that we want to pursue our own affairs with different things, forgetting the truth. That is a big risk in these matters, but fortunately this too has gone in the right direction and forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u10	Madam President! I am in favour of Mr Hoskosen's statement that the truth must not be forgotten, and even in this Chamber, disinformation is not shared. In the referral debate, we had a long and multi-generational discussion about whether or not the flying squirrel is an endangered species. You can find it in the Ministry of the Environment's documents for the purpose of keeping an eye on the list of endangered species.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u13	Now that Mr Hassi has returned to the Chamber, let me clarify what I said earlier. So the proposals, the amendments, will be made tomorrow and then put to the vote on Friday, and now it is the right thing to do. - I'm sorry, we're having a crazy day. It's Friday. It's Friday.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u14	Mr President! I remember well when Finland joined the European Union and after that this union squirrel became such a very important and protected animal. Originally the situation was that when the union squirrel was found in the forest work, the forest site was stopped once and for all until the area was closed down. We are now moving in a much more sensible direction, which this legislation, which is now under discussion, is also contributing to. There must be protection, but it does not have to be as bureaucratic and difficult for the industry as this protection of the union squirrel has been in the early days of EU membership. In that sense, I salute with great satisfaction that this will continue to be developed in a flexible way, as this will not jeopardise this protection of the animal at all. I believe that the union squirrel is also protected by forest owners. Forest owners should not be turned into bogeymen that only the authorities are protective. People protect you as much as they do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u15	Madam President! It is good that the Ministry of the Environment, too, has undertaken to dismantle unnecessary regulation. This union squirrel debate has been quite well discussed here, the abolition of the demarcation procedure, the labelling of the terrain. It makes sense to carry out this type of reform. But then the aim is to provide more resources for the Ely Centres. That is an important objective. It makes sense to use the resources effectively for measures that have a genuine impact. But from time to time, the Elys and the Avas have quite a lot of money available, when today's news said that the Regional State Administrative Agency has issued a decision, says that sports competitions can no longer be sent just to those athletes, but must be brought in by all schoolchildren. It seems that there is enough of this money in this state administration to make a lot of decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u16	Madam President! This is one example of a union squirrel — they are, as Hoskonen well pointed out, very much: I, too, came into the yard with a union squirrel and seemed to be a very curious animal. I always made birdhouses in the spring, and he went to get rid of those little birds and eggs. I'm glad he moved out of that yard. Otherwise, it would have destroyed the whole yard. This is the boogeyman we're talking about. Then the neighbor's carpenter shop went with the union squirrel. This kind, which should be an animal in the wilderness, is well adapted to it. The only thing to fear now is that jobs will not go away when this former legislation has been so strict. A true idol of the Greens, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u17	Now there are no more responses requested. Let's continue on the list, Congressman Maijala. - I'm sorry. I didn't notice Mr. Tuppura.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u18	Thank you, Mr President. After Mr Hakkarainen's speech: He referred to a covenant squirrel in a certain way as an idol. That is quite harshly said, although I recognise that very much of the contradictions in nature conservation are being downloaded into the union squirrel. The fact is, however, that in the latest report published at the beginning of this year, the threat class of the union squirrel has been dropped. It is no longer endangered, it is so-called eye-to-eye. It is also a fact that Mr Hassi has pointed out here that the position has come down sharply over the last ten years, by 20%. On the other hand, however, the committee draws attention to the fact that there is a great deal of temporal and regional variation in the position. That is why we need to monitor peacefully and moderately for a little longer time that we know how the flying squirrel population develops. But in this proposal it is essential to reconcile the aspects of forestry and nature conservation, and in that sense this report by the committee has been successful.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u19	Madam President! It is good that the rights of landowners are improved, but it is also true that nature must be taken into account whenever we start building new areas and changing the environment. One example is this housing fair in Vantaa. It gave a great deal of thought to the way in which we can keep those union squirrels still in that area. They made the green areas and the green routes for those squirrels so they could move there, but how about now that they've been living there for a year, there's hardly any more of those union squirrels there. In other words, these conservation programmes must be carried out not only by a map and some pen by an official, but also by experts so that we can protect the environment for these endangered species in nature.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u20	Mr President! This proposal is indeed the first and one of these important things that has been achieved at the Ministry of the Environment. In other words, debureaucraticism is the fashion word of the day, and the Ministry of the Environment has done this in a truly commendable way. This proposal will make considerable progress on this issue, which means that this really must be brought up with dignity. Now to the content of this amendment to the Nature Conservation Act. We in the Centre Party are very pleased with what this law contains, and we are indeed underlining this report, as has been said here in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. We believe that this proposal is necessary and appropriate. And then on to all this land marking stuff. In Finland, we have a lot of different protected areas defined and defined by different regulations. In addition, we also have forest owners' own protected areas, which are not even meaningful. For example, as a forest owner and landowner, my family and I have agreed that those areas will never be touched. So we also have a huge number of unmarked protected areas. We are certainly all pro-protection people here, using our resources for genuine protection, for the right development of nature and the environment. Now, for example, the Forest Act, Section 10 of the Forest Act. There are a lot of such things that define that certain areas should be protected, but they will never come in any way to mark the terrain, because soon we would have the terrain full of all the world's characters, and this kind of thing is really not for the benefit of protection. It is now good that, in accordance with this law, we are going to concentrate on marking only the most important and important protected areas on the ground and, among other things, certain coastal areas, that people should know which one of these is an important protected area and that it is possible to act. And now for this union squirrel thing. Indeed, we must bear in mind that the flying squirrel is no longer an endangered species, but is indeed only an eye-catching species. This has already been mentioned, and we in the committee discussed how these various protected areas should be better digitally labelled on different materials so that, among other things, motorists, i.e. forest machinery operators, can be even more sure when to go to a protected area and then not go there afterwards. We must remember that motors are currently operating very closely digitally in different areas, and it may be that this legislative change will ultimately achieve a better conservation result than without this legislative change. In conclusion, I would just like to say that it is essential that we use common sense to move all the protection issues forward — these conservation resources would be used, for example, to protect the forest deer in Kainuu.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u21	Madam President! The essential things have been said in this debate, and I personally see that this bill must first and foremost be mirrored from the point of view of deregulation. This is an excellent improvement, although, of course, it is a small suggestion that this restriction procedure for the breeding and resting place of the union squirrel should now be abolished. It is interesting, however, to listen to these estimates of how many of those union squirrels there are. For some reason, we seem to have conflicting information. As has been pointed out in the debate, the flying squirrel is no longer an endangered species,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u24	Madam President! Do you really think that we are all nature-friendly and positive people? We are not, we would not otherwise have these debates on these subjects.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u27	Mr President! At least I'm nature-friendly. However, it is not a matter of seriously undermining the protection of the flying squirrel. Just as the committee's report also states, this ban on weakening and destruction remains and there will be no change. I would also like to point out from the fact that this current administrative decision-making procedure has affected only 1 to 2 % of all the living areas of the union squirrel, just as we say in this committee's report. In that sense, we must also remember the scale of this issue. The living areas of the Alliance squirrels are much wider, and there are large numbers of union squirrels living in more areas than what this procedure, which is now being abolished, an area of activity or an area of influence, has been concerned with. This is precisely the dismantling of bureaucracy, and I believe that this effectiveness, which we have here, will provide resources for other uses and will not substantially undermine the protection or living areas of the union squirrels.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u28	Madam President! The government has a wide range of adjustment needs. The targets have been the elderly, families with children as well as medical allowances, and now the union squirrel became the target. This is a bit of a sad extension to this chain. I wonder what's next. In Espoo, the union squirrel has been quite useful, it has really saved many areas from unnecessary construction. Leaving the union squirrel to forestry operators cannot be considered a good solution, but I will, in due course, support this objection for human reasons. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u29	Madam President! The government's proposal to amend the Nature Conservation Act is good and justified, and the committee's position on this is also very welcome. This case of the union squirrel is a good illustration of Finnish nature conservation. In time, it was marked, when we joined the European Union, on the list of endangered species. Of course, there are many things to be said about it, but it had purely political purposes to get only such a species on the endangered list, which is able to manage the Finnish forest landscape as effectively as possible through various conservation conflicts that have been quite enough in this country in recent years and decades, and all in vain. There might be someone good there, but they're mostly for nothing. First, at the time when the list of endangered persons was being recorded, I saw a study of over 300,000 flying squirrels then, in any case, hundreds of thousands of individuals. On this basis, for example, the moose is extremely endangered from animals moving in Finnish forests, and the fox is also very endangered. Almost all mammals are endangered if we go on the same basis. So this is a purely political game target that was, this union squirrel, and is still. After all, as a Federation squirrel, there is nothing to be afraid of, as it does in Ilomantsi, next to the shooting range, where rifle-caliber weapons are constantly fired, it does not harm the life of that animal at all. The abolition of this need for delimitation is a very welcome, sensible expression and a sensible decision which is shared by the majority of the committee. That's good. At the same time, we are dismantling the unnecessary bureaucracy that is one of the central objectives of the government, according to its own programme. Someone in this Chamber doubted whether the forest professionals could handle these matters. Yes, the forest professionals have taken their course, and just as one of the representatives said in his speech, the multi-functional machines today have map programmes in which all the different protection limits can be found. Of course, no reasonable person will harm nature. The use of nature, the ploughing of the field, the regeneration of the forest, is a natural measure. We have to make this money somewhere in order to pay our debts and guarantee people well-being. Finally, Madam President, I would like to draw attention to one point. Mrs Majala, in her own speech, said that the forest deer is the real endangered species in this world. It is becoming extinct because another person on the list of endangered persons, which is not endangered, the wolf, is killing the forest deer in Finland, and then it is truly extinct. If anyone doubts whether the union squirrel is endangered, then when you cross the eastern border and push towards Vladivostok, the whole vast continent is full of union squirrels — that is the threat. In other words, this proves that this is a purely political threat, for a party in this house to be allowed to rumble, that now there is another threat. But the forest deer is really dying of extinction. There are, if I remember correctly, about 1,000 of them left, if any. The last figure I have seen in the statistics was 1,100 individuals, but wolves have eaten them, so that a few hundred will probably still be found in this country. So here, ladies and gentlemen, is a real tragedy. We allow the wolf population, which has grown huge, to kill the forest deer. And then it's a real extinction, and you can't find it anywhere. Here the Greens sit and pious with some union squirrels, forgetting the truth about this world. Where are you? Where's your statistical memory? Of course, the person — including each of us who signed it — has a slightly selective memory, which is something that must be acknowledged, but as far as the deer is concerned, it would now be good for you to have that memory returned to pieces like a movie character in his day, because the fate of a forest deer in this matter is the fate of a great tragedy. With this bill of law, which the government has made, we are well on the way and we will get rid of this pointless bureaucracy, but, ladies and gentlemen, attention will be paid to those things that are really endangered if nature is protected. A forest deer needs protection. The wolf population must be reduced, and wolves that look more or less like a German shepherd are not wolves.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u30	Madam President! Mr Hoskonen, I must say that, with what you have just heard, you are not criticising and slandering the Greens, but you are criticising and slandering the Ministry of the Environment. As you may know, During their parliamentary history, the Greens have never been the largest party, or otherwise, in such a position that we alone would have been in the process of enacting any laws or making any decisions on protection or defining threat. They will be drawn up by the authorities. You, Mr Hoskonen, are now brutally criticising the work of the authorities in the ministries with official responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u31	Madam President! Let me tell Mrs Halmemenpää a few things that I have experienced in my life. When the Pampalo gold mine was established at the time, officials from the Ministry and the administrative sector in question found that there was a rare species that was at risk. Of course, the municipality took the view that we could get the mine running, and then officials came in to investigate with the responsibilities mentioned by Mrs Halmemenpää. Well, they didn't find that species. Then we asked, "Well, what's the sport?" They say it doesn't exist now, when it's a species of mushrooms that can hide when a person comes to investigate it. — On my day in life, I have not heard of such forest mushrooms that can hide their collectors. I understand that an lynx or a wolf, if you go to see him, goes into hiding. Mr Halmeenpää is concerned that something is being demeaned here, but I will only tell you what I have been through. You will be able to determine what it is, but it would be a good thing for officials to deal with the truth at times by acknowledging the facts and not attacking people's livelihoods, as has been the case with nature conservation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u32	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u33	Madam President! There is also such a book about these endangered animals, such a Bible about endangered animals in Finland. I watched it sometimes, I didn't read it all, and there was an animal in it that goes to the carcass. And let’s take, for example, the fact that if Hakkarainen swims in that way and is thrown into that nature, within a week that endangered animal will come, even if it enters the eye, it will be found somewhere. These are protected, nonexistent, and these legal provisions have made man’s life very difficult. This proposal proposes that the obligation to mark nature conservation areas on the terrain should be reduced and, in this respect, the penal code of the law should be amended. The restriction procedure for the breeding and resting place of the union squirrel would be abolished. In addition, the law would provide for jurisdiction to derogate from the financial provision for a private nature reserve. The proposal is therefore in line with the nature of the Government Programme, as the Government's aim is to dismantle unnecessary regulation and reduce the administrative burden. In addition, the proposal on the labelling of the boundaries of nature conservation areas aims to reduce and reduce the administrative burden associated with the labelling of nature conservation areas, particularly in the case of ely centres. There would also be clarification of the derogations from the financial provisions for private nature conservation areas and their respective powers. Under the current law, the Ministry of the Environment is responsible for the powers of exemption in respect of the old private protected areas. However, in recent years it has been the Government’s trend to shift the tasks of the authorities away from the ministerial level to the lower government. It is also worth recalling that the procedure for restricting breeding and resting sites in connection with forest management would be abandoned. In the case of national parks and natural parks, the labelling obligation would remain unchanged. Madam President! The explanatory statement to the objection states that the restriction on the breeding and resting-place of union squirrels would be abandoned in connection with forest fellings and that in the future, compliance with the prohibition of weakening would be left to forest operators' own knowledge and knowledge acquisition. The Centre for Economic Affairs, Transport and the Environment would only be obliged to provide advice. According to the people who signed the objection, the protection of the union squirrel is weakening. I find it strange that those who have signed the objection will see it as manifestly negative if in the future compliance with the prohibition of weakening is left to the forestry operators' own knowledge and knowledge acquisition. Why is that a concern? Is forestry operators' own knowledge and data mining somehow incomplete or weak? The best know-how is probably in their own field. Without prejudice to the professionalism of the officials of the Ely Centres and the views of the representatives of the city about the union squirrels, I would argue that forestry operators are best acquainted with the forest. The objection also states that violations of the Nature Conservation Act may increase, thereby increasing the workload of the police and the prosecutor. It seems to the signatories that the dismantling of red tape and the streamlining of regulation will lead to lawsuits. Apparently, the administrative burden that has increased over the decades, which has become heavy and costly, is something to be welcomed — otherwise the district courts will be congested by the union squirrels.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u34	Mr President! I would remind colleagues that this point, which the government is now proposing and which the majority of the committee is proposing to delete, has at one time come to the law precisely to safeguard the legal protection of landowners, forest owners and those who work in forests. I am a little surprised that now those who probably feel that they are speaking in the voice of forest owners are not at all concerned about this aspect of the matter. There have been quite a number of speakers who have questioned the need for protection for the union squirrel. It is a good thing that some colleagues, such as Mrs Maijala and Mr Honkonen, have at least said that the obligation to protect itself and not to dispose of resting and breeding sites does not change anything. And I would remind you of the membership of the EU, which made the union squirrel in Finland protected, the law. After all, negotiations were held under the leadership of the central prime minister Esko Aho, and former M.Sc. Director Heikki Haavisto was then a foreign minister, so that the centre party has had a decisive influence on the fact that the union squirrel has become an endangered status in Finland. And to Mr Kärnä and others who have spoken of the fact that the species is no longer endangered when it is classified as endangered: 'Dangered' is one of these categories of threat, which includes'very endangered', 'extremely endangered', 'disappeared' and 'hazard' and 'observed'. These are different classes of threat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u35	Madam President! If you know that side of the forest at all, you'll see what's going on. In time, when there was forest management, let's say this, the old men hated burrows and things like this, where now such endangered animals were. But now in forest management, as Maijala said, multifunctional machines and such do those forests, so that no one needs those decayed trees, that is, they are left in the forest. And this too has increased the number of endangered animals, it has increased simply. But the conservationists, who have made it such a strange father-in-law, depend on its father-in-law. They don't visit this day, what it is. As they say, there are 300,000 covenant squirrels, and I don't think that there's even enough of them, there's a lot more of them — they're already coming to the settlements and all over the place — so that things like this have to be dismantled. If it's been 50 years since someone else, that history won't exist anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u36	Madam President! Mr Hassi rightly justified this threat, but as far as the union squirrel is concerned, I am not in a position to understand it. Hundreds of thousands of individuals are union squirrels in Finnish nature even now. What kind of endangered species is that? But, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I ask you: why do you not raise the issue of the protection of, for example, a forest deer? It's really dying of extinction. I'll tell you why you don't care: It's not such a media-sexy subject, it's the protection of a forest deer when you have to go into the woods and go to a lot of trouble. A union squirrel can be protected from this gym and by putting someone else's property under ban, it's very easy. But when you have to work, sacrifice yourself and sweat on the back of your neck skiing after a forest deer, but when you're scared when it's already dark and a pack of wolves howling behind your back, that's a whole different thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u37	Mr President! This classification of the threat is being reviewed periodically, and in that sense, when we talk about the union squirrel, we are in a good situation, because just a year ago the latest threat report has been produced, in which the union squirrel is still defined as being endangered, to be kept in mind, and it has been said that its position has recently disappeared and that it is indeed worth keeping an eye on. That in the sense that we are in a good position, we have very recent information about this. I would say to Mr Hoskonen that, yes, just as much a forest deer is endangered and we are concerned about it, but I do not think that going skiing after a deer will do anything to protect it, but it is a legislative work, land-use issues, which will contribute to protecting it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u38	Mr President! Here, Mr Hassi rolled the centre around, as it were, to protect the cause or honour of the union squirrel, and I take a catch of it — yes, we can take responsibility for having a genuine look at whether the union squirrel is still an eye-to-eye species, because it is still so close to the church villages and urban environments. I share the concern of many representatives for this protection of the forest deer. But instead, a species that seems to have once again reached the road of many construction projects, the road to many infrastructure projects, is this moustache. They seem to swim surprisingly much in all places and lakes when something should be built. And yes, it should also give serious consideration to this issue of threat.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u39	Madam President! I am very pleased that Mrs Hoskonen has just raised a forest deer in this debate. If you bother to visit the Ministry of the Environment’s website for this classification of threat, you will find that the forest deer has been classified for observation, just like this union squirrel. They are just as endangered, therefore. There is a deer in my own constituency, and I suspect that I have seen more deer than Mr Hokkonen has ever seen. And I am also aware of the project of the former RKTL, now Luke, in which this deer was transferred to Suomenselä because of its small population size and restricted habitat. We have supported these projects where we have been able to, but quite a few of them have ended up here in Parliament. And the reason why we have not discussed the protection of the deer here today is because this bill is not about the forest deer, it is about the union squirrel.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u40	Madam President! Nobody in this debate has now denied that the flying squirrel is really an eye-to-eye species, like the deer in the forest. And it is certainly the case that we all want to preserve biodiversity here in Finland, but it is now a matter of dismantling red tape, and this bill of law is breaking it down. And I don't see how this would be endangering the union squirrel populations or the population of union squirrels in Finland. I do not see any risk that this bill will be used to ensure that the union squirrel is going to disappear. And yes, this deer is also an integral part of this debate, and we must now consider that now that one species is destroying another species, how are we going to deal with them now? Yes, this wolf’s stock management hunt must also be scaled according to the way and the effects it has on forest deer populations in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u41	Madam President! When you listen to this discussion, it makes you feel good that official responsibility is used to make these classifications about which animals are endangered and how they are really defined. If we were to start making new listings like this on the basis of this debate, then we would probably find Mr. Hakkarainen at some point as an endangered organism. I don't know how this conversation is actually being taken forward, of course this obviously is representative of Hoskonen now this kind of personal fun for the most important thing. Welcome to, among other things, the Multia-Keruruu skis next Sunday with me, 25 kilometers of skiing there – there may be deer in the forest and there may be something there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u44	One more response, Mr Halmemenpää.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u45	Madam President! In fact, I just wanted a reply to that speech by Mr Kärnä. We fully agree with that, or at least I personally agree that if everything goes the way it did in Strömsö, this bill will not jeopardise the protection of the union squirrel in any way. Unfortunately, however, I dare to suspect that the same expertise that can be found in the ely centre of natural science experts is not available in every forest owner's economy. Responsibilities are put on forest owners — their legal protection does not improve in my opinion, but weakens.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u48	Mr President! This has conditioned the know-how, know-how, ability and willingness of forest owners in several speeches. As a forest owner, I know that we have huge responsibilities and obligations. Most of us are farmers, for example, who are used to having a huge number of things we need to review, do and act on. Every forest owner today knows that the forest must not just be beaten up, but we bear our responsibility for these matters and we are well aware that if there were, for example, a union squirrel... Of course, we do. There are no union squirrels in smoke rapids, but here in the south, if there are union squirrels, then the landowners are aware of this and very few even try to break things, because the Finnish person is, in principle, very law-abiding and a person who works according to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u49	Mr President! I was surprised to hear Mrs Halmeenpää speak when I know her as a provincial woman and someone who really knows the conditions north of Tampere. Unfortunately, Mr Halmemenpää, the problem of the Green Party has come up very well: you do not trust people who live in rural areas and live in nature; you believe that they do not have the know-how; you believe that they are greedy and take advantage of everything that is possible there. People who live in the forest and own these forests love those forests and want to live in harmony with them. They take bread from there, but they don't want to ruin and destroy those forests. At least I believe in the knowledge and ability of the Finnish forest owner to study these things.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u50	Madam President! Congressman Kurvinen, thank you for this feedback. You put forward a number of arguments which are entirely your own, not my attitudes, values or positions. I do indeed come from the province and the countryside, and I come from a place where there is a great deal of union squirrel, and that is why I am familiar with the presence of a union squirrel on the land of the forest owner, and unfortunately I am familiar with the situation in my immediate vicinity that the forest owner comes as a complete surprise, that there is a union squirrel living on his columns, and then there is a fuss and excitement that what is being done here, they have no knowledge of these things. I have no doubt that the forest owner would recognize the union squirrel, but he will not be there in his forests trying to see if there are any or no nesting leprechauns. In my opinion, this bill genuinely undermines the security of the landowner, not improves it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u51	Mr President! The Social Democrats were not signatories to that protest, but when we discuss what it means to be concerned about the legal protection of forest owners, this issue was raised there in committee. In other words, it is not a question of not trusting forest owners and forest professionals. Rather, that concern stems from the fact that the law has remained the same and the responsibility for compliance with the law is now left to forest owners alone. This is what this is all about. And I also do not understand that we now want to see this differently. I hope there is no cause for this concern.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u52	Madam President! This committee's report also states that, when guidelines are practical and policies are established, operators have a good chance of putting successful protection measures into practice, and I agree with this quite clearly — responsible freedom and belief that those people there locally know and act as they should. I share Mr Kurvisen's concern about the fact that, on some level, I have been given the impression that the ideology of the Greens specifically emphasises the protection that has been dictated from above in all kinds of matters. This can be seen, especially in Lapland, by means of all kinds of protection decisions, that attempts are being made to grind down the throat and do not believe that the local authorities know the way to live, to be and to use the environment responsibly. Anyone who lives there certainly does not want to destroy it in their own environment, but to take responsible care of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u53	Madam President! As far as Mr Kurvisen and Mr Kärnä's contributions to the Green League are concerned, these contributions perhaps relate more to you than to the Green League itself. The most important thing in general is to consider land ownership and forest ownership, that there are uniform rules of play: everyone knows how to act. And that is why, in my own speech, I stressed the kind of action the government is taking to ensure that the forestry sector will be up-to-date in the future and that there is a place where information about the breeding and resting places of these union squirrels can easily be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u54	There was a reply here first from Mrs Halmemenpää and then from Mr Kurvise, and then we go on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u55	Madam President! Let me just say briefly that the ideology of my own party is not dictated from above, ruthless respect for guidance, but emphasising cooperation. It will then mean responsibility for both the legislator and the citizens at all levels. It will then mean a suitable mixture of regulation, negotiation and agreement. That is what we are in favour of.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u56	Madam President! It is very nice to hear that the Green Parliamentary Group believes in a Finnish person, a Finnish landowner and an entrepreneur and other operator living in rural areas. But now that you have taken your positions in this parliamentary term too, you do not want the regional plans not to be stamped by the Ministry of the Environment, you do not want the union squirrel to become less marked and less regulated in the forest, you obviously do not want to see the agenda, nor do you want the municipalities to be able to decide on the deviations from construction. What else does this tell us except that the Green Parliament believes in top-down dictation, such as concentrated greenness, not realistic greenery? I hope that, representatives of Halmemenpää and Aalto, you will take a new message of joy there in your party.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u57	Well, one more response, Mr. Aalto.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u58	Madam President! There is no other party in this country that would take nature conservation issues as seriously as the Green League does. These questions are always based on the fact that local people are contacting people, on the one hand, and on the other hand on the fact that the Ministry of the Environment is responsible for preparing legislation. These are the issues we are trying to address — the expert knowledge that has been studied and the concerns of ordinary people, their views in their everyday and immediate environment — because no one else in this country is doing so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u59	Let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u60	Madam President! It must come to mind from this debate that you can, when the union squirrels can hear us, but they may not hear you. Indeed, the primary objective of this government proposal is to adapt the nature conservation tasks of business, transport and environmental centres to the resources available, while at the same time reducing the regulatory burden under the Government Programme without reducing the level of nature conservation. We are certainly all in agreement on this, and we believe that deregulation of unnecessary regulation is very appropriate, but, especially in environmental matters, it must not be allowed or done anywhere at the expense of nature. The debate in committee and now in this Chamber is due, as expected, to these union squirrels, because this law really brings about the abolition of the restriction procedure for the breeding and resting-place of the union squirrel. A majority of us in the committee agreed that we would accept this. We also consider in committee that the amendment of the law does not necessarily have a great deal to do with the reduction in the number of official tasks, that the duty of advice and supervision will in any case be maintained, and that is why we also have an obligation to monitor the resources of the Elys in future for all these measures that will be taken in the future. Madam President! In this debate, when many speeches have touched on this issue of union squirrels, I personally would like to see that there may be a difference of opinion in this Chamber, but on the other hand we respect each other in this Chamber. I feel that, in all aspects of this law, the court work has not been very honorable: it has not been honorable to this government bill, it has not been honorable to the union squirrel, but it has not been honorable to this institution either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u61	Mr President! "The health relationship" is our chairman's statement. A healthy relationship with nature really is a core, basic issue for us downtown people. In vain, we in this Chamber shout at each other, which one of us best protects the environment, who best protects the most. Yes, at least in our party — our party too — it has been very clearly stated that we live in perfect balance with nature in the sense that we in Finland can continue to live to the full, we can use our own natural resources and everything like this in a reasonable way. Let's not beat each other up on this kind of thing, we're certainly all protectors. I felt really bad that it was said in this Chamber that someone was not a conservationist. Point your finger at what we don't really think is an environmentalist. We all want Finland to be able to live in a sensible way. Santeri Alkio once said that we should leave the country to our children in a better condition than we have had it ourselves. Let's do it. It is a huge challenge for all of us. Let's go back to this government show. In my opinion, this government proposal has been built in such a way that in future we will be able to use the limited resources we have at our disposal, indeed, for the genuine nature conservation, and we, the landowners, for our part, will then be able to take this work forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u62	Madam President! I personally see the problem with this law as being that, when this limitation procedure is reduced, it brings uncertainty to forest owners and undermines legal certainty. I do not doubt that forest owners want to protect their forests and take care of nature and take care of our endangered animals too, but I see it as a problem that, although forest owners are mainly well aware of the various legislations affecting their forests and obligations, they may not always know everything, especially as we have more forest owners who do not live near the forest they own, we have a lot of heirs as forest owners, a lot of urban forest owners who visit their forests quite rarely. That is why the fact that the authority has not made the restriction there can bring up situations in which, without knowing it, it does the kind of damage that it would not want and which is also illegal. I think this is the big problem. This process of reducing legislation has been driven by the fact that the Elys do not have the resources to do so. At the same time, however, this government proposal already states that this does not necessarily reduce the resources of those elys, because more and more must then be carried out after-sales supervision and advice. If ex post controls are carried out and the damage has already happened, the forest owner is in a much worse position than if a delimitation had already been made in advance, so that the forest owner would know that he was on a secure footing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u63	Mr President! I am pleased that this work on dismantling standards and bureaucracy is progressing. The proposal before us is a small step, but a step in the right direction. I agree with the committee that the government's proposal to repeal Article 72a of the Nature Conservation Act, i.e. the ban on the breeding and resting place of the union squirrel, is good. It is also good to note that in this context, as has been pointed out here, the responsibility of forest operators in the implementation of protection will remain, and in part will be emphasised. However, as the report states and as Mr Hassi, for example, said earlier, this highlights the role of future guidance in order to ensure that the rights of the landowner are guaranteed. At least I trust that forest owners will be able to follow these working guidelines. Effective guidance is necessary, it is clear, but compliance is successful. I also have confidence in forest owners, including in issues relating to the protection of the union squirrel, and in their ability to use their forests in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u64	Mr President! First of all, I would like to point out here that, in other respects, apart from the union squirrel, this committee report is unanimous. So there's also a lot of things that I'm sure we all agree on. Then, in general, I would just like to remind you of the importance of biodiversity. I feel like it's often forgotten in this room. Many of these famous species, such as the white-backed woodpecker or the flying squirrel, are also so-called types of indicators that tell us that where they live, there are many other beings that are more difficult to detect but important for the preservation of biodiversity. We humans often forget that, after all, our existence is based on the existence of ecosystems on earth. On the other hand, we know that man’s activity has caused a considerable increase in the rate of extinction compared to what it has been before industrialisation began. For example, Stanford, Princeton, and Berkeley universities say that the rate of extinction is as high as 100 times higher than what it was before the time of industrialisation. One example of the surprises that can come is this loss of bees and pollinators, which is a cause for concern in many countries, which can have an enormous impact on food production. After all, pollinators depend on the production of all fruits and berries, most roots, most vegetables. This is just an example of the fact that ecosystems and biodiversity are also fundamental to our lives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u65	Mr President! Finally, I would like to highlight this increase in the role and responsibilities of forest owners. The fact is that responsibilities have increased, but responsibilities have increased especially since 2004 when we in this Parliament adopted the latest version of the Forest Act and the situation. We must remember that the Forest Act contains Article 18, forest crime and forest violation. It points out, for example, that any person who deliberately or grossly neglects the notification of the use of forests provided for in Article 14 fails to make the notification of the use of forests, must be condemned for the violation of forests, which is indeed precisely regulated by the Law on Forests, that the notification of use of forests must be made. These are the professionals who do these things, the professionals who investigate and settle all these things. In a similar way, as I mentioned earlier, this section 10 of the Forest Act, which contains these specific natural sites, is still on the way. Yes, the status of forest owners in these matters is so strictly regulated that we are quite happy to allow this bill to move forward in this way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u66	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 3/2016 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u67	Madam President! The Government's proposal for a law on the amendment of the Land Use and Building Act and the repeal of Article 3 of the Code of Conduct on Lighted Construction and Design is good in its starting points and basic principles. Land use policy is primarily a matter for municipalities. Land use solutions must be justified by considerations of appropriateness, which is best for the residents of the municipality, which is best for the local economy. It is up to the State to ensure legal protection and the protection of natural values without other defenders. However, most of the good proposal contains a proposal on beach construction, which is likely to make an exception a rule. It makes it possible to build a much wider beach. Private ownership is the basis of our legal order, and the right to build on our own land is easy to accept. However, this issue of beach construction has been carefully examined decades ago. Positions have been expressed in favour of the exercise of ownership and positions have been put forward that the protection of the landscape, the protection of watercourses and the general recreational use of coastal areas requires the regulation of construction. A compromise has been reached which emphasises the importance of planning in the implementation of such regulation. There is not enough justification in the proposal why this solution must now be removed. At least it won't reduce the burden of the administration. Mr President! During this parliamentary term, it is difficult to deal with many issues without considering the administrative reforms envisaged by the government. That is also the case here. If the power is now transferred to the municipalities in this proposal, then you have to ask where it will eventually go. In the absence of the Sote reform, the regional government is currently in a hurry to build. Then where does the power of decision finally go? When public opinion suggests that the provinces will only have a democratic government — i.e. elected councils — in the next decade, where will the power be concentrated in the next half a decade? For example: Is there a risk that the decision-making power of North Ostrobothnia will be lost? From Oulu to Oulu, and from there it will then be transferred to other municipalities in Northern Ostrobothnia? Is that right? Mr President! It is very difficult to rely on any reform when we do not know what is waiting for at the end.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u68	Madam President! The origins of this change in the Land Use and Building Act are reflected in the issues agreed in the Government negotiations, in part in the dismantling of standards and the reduction of red tape. So we are on the right track and at the heart of the matter. The guardianship society built by previous governments is now gradually moving more towards common sense. Every municipality or person can decide their affairs more independently in the future, as a slightly better expert, with their own home job. In the Government's proposal, it is proposed to transfer the current competence of the economic, transport and environmental centres to the municipalities in full. The current division of competence between the municipality and the Centre for Economic Affairs, Transport and the Environment is considered to result in duplication of work and delays in authorisation procedures. The amendments included in the Government’s proposal transfer only the power of exception to municipalities but do not propose to amend the grounds for non-compliance contained in the Act. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection considers that this proposal is necessary and appropriate in the light of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received. The committee supports the adoption of the draft law with a few comments and technical amendments. Since the amendment concerns only exceptions in the formula area, I will look at the following point in more detail. The report states that land use planning is the most important means of steering the urban structure. However, the Committee draws attention to the fact that the decentralization of urban structures is considered unsustainable in the long term, particularly from the point of view of climate change. Decentralisation may occur, especially in the peripheral areas of urban areas, in the context of the expansion of low density urban areas, mainly due to the depopulation of the sparsely populated area surrounding urban areas. In these developments, derogations have their own meaning. " In my view, the carbon footprint is considerably higher in cities than in rural areas, which is why I do not understand and do not accept how it could cause negative climate change. However, I did not see a difference of opinion or a disqualification as necessary, because the law is the guiding principle here. Such entries are therefore irrelevant. So the law is a welcome boost towards a more functional society, even outside Ring Three.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u69	Madam President! In his speech, Mr Mölsä wondered what impact this could have on the post-carbon process or the fight against climate change. I'll look at it, of course, as a Helsinki-based decision-maker. We design Helsinki, a growing urban area, through our patterns. Exceptions often pose a challenge to the formula. Helsinki will be built between good public transport connections, with as much housing as possible on the existing tracks, so that we can provide all the necessary services, schools, health care and public transport. Now that housing is created at random through an exception here and there outside its urban structure, designed from ecological and social viewpoints, it causes the carbon footprint to grow so that people are inhabited in places that are not at the end of good public transport. Their commuting, their travel to services, becomes more difficult and longer. Among other things, through movement,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u70	Madam President! Mr Mölsä spoke of his own knowledge that, in principle, the carbon footprint would always be higher in cities and suggests that the cause is related specifically to that way of living compared to rural areas. Above all, the question is about what is the socio-economic level, how much it is possible to spend, and above all it relates to that. You might think that if the population of a city the size of Helsinki were thrown into a province and cottages there, how much would the carbon footprint rise in that context. This is not so much a question of where people live, because it is precisely when you think about how people get from A to B, how heating is organised and the infrastructure is arranged, that they are managed in cities much more efficiently and given how such a large population can live in one place, planning is also more intensive. This will have an impact, of course, on climate change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u71	There's a lot of answers here. I'll admit it all here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u72	Mr President! The carbon footprint is something we could certainly discuss here for quite a long time. I have studied the matter from a slightly different perspective from you, representatives of Modig and Aalto. Indeed, I have read about this and have come to terms with the fact that living in rural areas is, according to many studies and studies, even better in terms of carbon footprint than living in the city. This is an issue on which we can disagree, depending on what is used to determine the calculation and the background in these patterns. But those who want to build in the countryside also commit themselves to living there with the work that is there, and the patterns are according to it. So at least I see that the person who lives in the countryside often has a carbon footprint much smaller than those who live in the city as a basic issue. This is a comprehensive, multifaceted issue. In other words, I do not at all approve of such rural people directly accusing that they would produce more carbon footprint.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u73	Madam President! The thing is that everyone in Finland lives with dignity, whether in Helsinki, Utsjoki or Ilomantsi. However, it is worth remembering these facts that no country in this country is being built so to speak wildly. Of course, urban areas and other places in rural areas have been planned, the station patterns are and there are all the other systems required by current legislation. But it must be borne in mind that, according to recent studies — which have not been published very much otherwise — people living in rural areas are genuinely living ecologically, and this idea, especially the one cherished by the Green League, that there is no clean way of life in rural areas, is now falling into a scrap heap, this old idea. After all, even in our countries, motoring is changing by reducing the amount of fossil fuels and producing fuels with bio-fuels, so that people in rural areas live even cleaner, because the raw materials from these rural areas are also being turned into fuels for passenger cars. That is when we will get rid of this cycle of fossils that is currently prevalent in this country and that is particularly visible in large cities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u74	Let me give the following answers: representatives Torniainen, Mölsä, Halmeenpää, Aalto and Modig.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u75	Madam President! My point of view on this issue is that in Finland, we should all be allowed to live where we want to live. And it should also be possible to live in the countryside in the future and build there. The fact of the matter is that the decentralization of the urban structure is considered unsustainable in the long term, but why is it so? In fact, we are currently in a situation where very many cities in Finland want to and are already doing that to tighten up the urban structure. They're already working on it. There's not much more we can make up for it. I personally hope that we can also live where we want to live.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u76	Madam President! Why I took this point on board was precisely because this amendment to the law concerns derogations in the planning area and has no bearing on the construction of sparsely populated areas. That was the essential point here, and this is now in vain in this report, because it does not really have any effect on this law either. In other words, for climate change this does not matter, it was the message. And when I said that the carbon footprint is larger in the city, there are quite a few reasons for it, but I am not going to deal with them separately now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u77	Madam President! Mr Torniainen did make an excellent speech on the need to be able to live where he wants to live in Finland and, if he so wishes, in rural areas. Here's the thing. I live in the countryside myself, and I wouldn't move to town for anything. The village of 500 people is very good enough, and it is the best place for me and my family, at least. Mr Hoskonen, with all due respect, both you and I, both of us, certainly know the benefits and ideals of living in rural areas, and we also know and feel that you can live there ecologically, ecologically even more than in some urban conditions, depending on the choices that a person makes. But Mr Hoskonen, do not say that the Greens would disagree.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u78	Madam President! No one values living in rural areas higher than urban living or vice versa. And it is quite clear if we just look at statistics that a large proportion of emissions are caused by housing, mobility and, of course, own consumption habits. These own consumption habits are not directly related to the city or the countryside, they are related to its own decisions, their own choices. Man is able to live very ecologically in the countryside, but also in the city.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u79	Madam President! I now find it very regrettable that the city centre has been brought up against urban housing and rural living. If you are going to go through the minutes of this meeting now, no one but the centre was talking here about this confrontation. Of course, everyone must have the right to live all over Finland. I personally regard it as an absolute dignity, a wealth, that we have inhabited this whole country. No one has claimed that living in the city itself is somehow more ecological. I think that many of us are now referring to the same research which may have surprised many people that, even if there is close urban construction, it does not degrade the carbon footprint of an individual in itself. Why? At least in this study, which I have personally studied, the difference between a person living in a rural area and a city has less influence over, among other things, how his house warms up. The countryside has different properties, a different way of living, and the resident himself can have a more direct impact on what is the carbon footprint of his or her dwelling. But if we then consider that we can get through solutions that promote the fight against climate change, which reduce our carbon footprint, then it does matter whether we get half a million citizens to do it at once or 100 citizens to do it at once. That is why a solution to the challenges of climate change can be found in cities, because there are so many people in one place. And this change will make it difficult for us in Helsinki to separate from each other, to build apart because we want people on good rail links, to provide good services, and not here, for example, in an area that is now planned as an office area. If there's gonna be one place where five kids come in, where's their kindergarten?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u80	And Mr Kärnä, the reply. Then let's go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u81	Madam President! However, it should now be noted in this debate that the solution to this mitigation and fight against climate change is not only found in cities but, quite the contrary, there are many of these opportunities in rural areas. Personally, at least I claim that the carbon footprint of my own family in a detached house, living with modern technology and the acquisition and exploitation of game and fish from the surrounding nature, is very small. In other words, all the time in this debate, we must remember that the opportunities of the whole country are being put into practice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u82	And then let's go on the list of speakers, Mr. Kulmala.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u83	Madam President! In this Government's proposal, it is proposed to transfer the competence currently conferred on the Ely Centres in full to the municipalities. The proposal seeks to contribute to the objectives of the Government Programme on the adaptation of the tasks of the Ely Centres to the reduced resources and to focus them on the more important issues of the use of regions. This is also why the proposal is good and worthy of support. The current division of competence between municipalities and Ely centres results in duplication of work and delays in authorisation procedures. Surely we all have good and bad examples of this. The amendments contained in this proposal transfer only the power of derogation to municipalities, but do not propose to amend the grounds for non-compliance contained in the Act. It is also proposed to transfer the powers of derogation to the coastal area as regards construction. This is actually the only place where I had to think deeply about it, when the beach plots to be built in Finland are quite scarce. However, when the proposal is read, it can be concluded that the transfer of the power of derogation concerns the construction of a new building in a coastal area which does not have a station plan or a general legal formula which specifically provides for the use of a general formula or part thereof as a basis for granting a building permit, unless it is an extension or replacement of an existing residential building. If this were to happen, I see no danger of the delegation of powers to the municipalities. One reason is that, in any case, municipalities are responsible for planning the use of their territories in general. In this case, the authority for deviations must also be fully exercised by the municipalities. Control is still tight, and I do not believe that this procedure will reduce the number of complaints. The Ely Centre retains the right to appeal against a municipal decision to derogate. Similarly, in accordance with the Land Use and Construction Act, other authorities have the right to appeal decisions in matters relating to their own field of activity. The conditions for derogation laid down in the Land Use and Construction Act are not amended in this proposal either. The municipality must also continue to ask the Ely Centre for an opinion when the deviation concerns a significant area of activity of the Centre, an area of importance for nature conservation, a site or area of importance for building protection, or an area reserved for recreational or protected areas in the regional plan. Madam President! I see no obstacle to the adoption of this proposal as it stands. The decision maker must be as close to the customer as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u84	Madam President! One of the main objectives of Juha Sipilä’s Government Programme is to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens, red tape and excessive standards. This amendment to the Land Use and Building Act is one of the most important concrete achievements achieved by the current government in these so-called standards. This is the kind of thing that really many Finnish people in many municipalities have expected. Mr President! Finland is a land of thousands of lakes and a land of hundreds of thousands or millions of beaches, and I think it is all right that this power of tolerance, the power to grant derogations, also for coastal construction, should come to the municipal level. As Mrs Kulmala rightly pointed out in her speech, the legislation, the criteria for granting waivers will not change, and legal protection and redress will also continue to intervene, if necessary, in the wrong – illegal or otherwise defective – decisions to derogate. Personally, I do not see any concern that municipalities do not have enough knowledge to take these decisions and that there is insufficient knowledge of the legislation. Well, you know, it's in the municipalities. I hope that, at last, we will trust local people in environmental policy, in nature conservation and in the development and construction of our community structure. People who live near beaches do not want to ruin their own environment. No councilman, no member of the Environmental and Construction Committee deliberately wants to create such an environment that is inappropriate. Yes, we must get this thinking from the top down, from Helsinki to the rest of the country, which still exists.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u85	Madam President! The proposal to amend the Land Use and Construction Act and to introduce an exemption from the law on the testing of light construction and design regulations may sound very bureaucratic and of minor importance in itself. That is not what these proposals are, however. The proposal means, among other things, that instead of the Ely Centres, municipalities will in future be allowed to decide on all exemptions, including those related to beach construction, in unzoned areas. This was an unspeakable objective of the whole reform of the Land Use and Construction Act. Someone might ask what's wrong with this. My answer is that, for example, when the Ministry of the Environment and the Ely Centres are deprived of the power to confirm derogations, that power will be transferred to the top management of the municipalities and to the construction companies close to them, who will be allowed to hussle as they please from now on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u91	Congressman Myller.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u92	Mr President! It is good, of course, that from time to time we wonder whether the practices we are used to are right or whether they should be changed. This is also the case with this law amending the Land Use and Building Law, so that the derogation power currently vested in the Ely Centres is transferred entirely to the municipalities. Some of these are issues where it seems quite clear that it is good that they should be transferred to municipalities, for example, the question of changing buildings. The fact that an office building can be changed for residential use is certainly one that is well suited to the fact that the municipalities do it exclusively. On the other hand, the question of new construction in the coastal area and the related anomalies has generally been regarded as a success and a success in the system that is currently in place. It is also supported by the information given to us about how complaints have been successful: when complaints have been made by the Ely Centre, they have been very successful, that is to say, this is a necessary situation, that ely is this supervisory authority. On the other hand, the success of municipalities in these complaint steps has not been very good. So even in this sense, it makes no sense to give this deviation to the municipalities. There has been talk of red tape. It will not happen either, because here there will be changes that will cause further complaints. Nor is the time for changes to be made the best possible, because I understand that the government is pushing for regional reform, and then, for example, the situation of elys will change substantially from what it is at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u93	Madam Speaker! He made a reply to me from that representative, Mr Aalto, above all. The law must build the land, it is a tradition that we have had before we have been independent. Representative Aalto, municipalities comply with the legislation. It complies with the Land Use and Building Act, it complies with the Nature Conservation Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Municipal Law, the Administrative Law. In municipalities, no supreme management of municipalities, the imaginary one you describe, some amazing clique, decides these things, but is likely to be decided by the municipality’s environmental committee or by the municipal official acting under official responsibility, the official of the environmental services. And also there on the Environment Board, the officials act under official responsibility. They may, if necessary, be held liable in criminal law for their official activities. No, Mr Aalto, you know about the local politicians of the Greens, maybe they don't know these things so well, but I know that since I was 18 years old, when I was in municipal politics, these solutions are actually being made there, political decisions, when you know when it is official activity, and the granting of derogations in municipalities is official activity. I would also like to make a comment to Mrs Myller on the fact that in the future the provincial office will be able to take over the tasks of the Ely Centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u94	And let's stick to these one-minute responses.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u95	Madam President! I, too, was struck by the speech made by that representative, Mr Aalto. Much has been said about the ideologies of the Green League and other parties. It is now clear to everyone that belief in man and belief in municipal decision-makers is certainly not part of the ideologies of the Green League in any way. Now, Mrs. Aalto’s speech was a truly outrageous demeaning of municipal decision-makers and municipal officials, and it also made references to some form of corruption — an incomprehensible speech. And the same kind of greetings can be sent to that representative, Myller. Why don't you trust the municipalities and the municipal decision-makers? Why do you not trust the local knowledge and the fact that they do know how to deal with these matters?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u96	Mr President! In the previous speeches on behalf of the opposition, it was pointed out that we should wait for this whole area of regional reform and that these matters should be dealt with. But let me point out that this is about to shift tasks to the municipalities, not to the province, but to the municipalities. In the future, we will discuss what all the tasks, roles will be held by the municipality, and here is a very good presentation as a basis for the municipalities, close to them, to take over the tasks. Let's get this thing over with in the marching order, just as it makes sense.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u97	Mr President! This government proposal is based on the Government Programme and it is good that decision-making power is given to municipalities in these cases. This will eliminate overlaps, duplication of work between municipalities and ely centres. That's a good thing. This is a way to break standards. The representative, Myller, pointed out that the power of deviation in the construction of a new building on the beach should remain in the Ely centres. Personally, I do not think it is a good thing that there is this tolerance in many different installations, but it is good that it is now being transferred to the municipalities. The municipalities know how they want to develop the regions. In fact, the fact is that the Ely Centres still retain the right to appeal against municipal decisions to derogate. That's what's gonna stay here, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u98	Madam President! According to the Government Programme, bureaucracy is being reduced and processes are being streamlined, which is an excellent objective. That is exactly what this bill is now before us. I am amazed at the idea put forward by representative Aalto that supposedly there would be someone like this supreme and wisest power in this country, and it seems precisely to be the representative of Aalto and the union he represents, the Green League, for the people in this country always such that they have the greatest wisdom, the highest wisdom, found in them. Yes, just as Mr Kurvin said, all these laws are known in the municipalities. Laws are followed, there is expertise there, and if anyone does not know something, the phone works and the connections work. I've got all the information. There is no threat here except that, when power is dispersed from central government to the provinces and municipalities, it is heartening the opposition parties, which is, of course, quite understandable. After all, they are the great firebearers of the centralization of this decision-making power, but that is their business again. It is a central issue and a matter for the government to decentralise administration and cut red tape, which is a good objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u99	Värderade fru talman! This bill is generally good, and it is good that in land use a larger part of the power of decision is delegated to a municipality that has, if not now the best, at least good enough expertise in most cases. However, in the small part of the construction relating to beach construction and protected buildings, the decision-making powers should be exercised, for example, by the Ely Centre. The municipalities are very different: there are municipalities with 500 inhabitants and municipalities with 500,000 inhabitants. Some have expertise, some don't. For example, I do not think that there is enough building history expertise in all municipalities. We have a building heritage that has been destroyed enough in the '60s, '70s and '80s. It's not so rich that you shouldn't be careful with it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u100	I will give five more replies, which are therefore for the representatives of Eestilä, Myller, Aalto, Halmenpää and Mikkonen, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u101	Madam President! In my opinion, these derogation permits for coastal construction in the municipalities are a very good and welcome reform, and in my opinion it has nothing to do with any ongoing administrative reform, since these are transferred to the municipalities and are not affected by any regional reform. The current practice, which is why I support this government proposal, is that the customer does not always know where the permit process is going. Sometimes it's in the county, sometimes it's in the Ely Center. It runs there for a year, and no one knows about it, and no one takes overall responsibility. This is now becoming clear, and I believe that the knowledge of the municipality is related to the construction and construction within the municipality. It is precisely this sort of deregulation and simplification of bureaucracy that must be taken forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u102	Mr President! I'm sure no one thinks that somehow the municipalities will do something wrong. The question is precisely that there are very different resources in municipalities, that there are few resources in small municipalities to deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u105	Madam President! If I went to look at the situation, even if in the sense that Kittilä’s municipality, known for its truly legitimate activities, would start granting derogations, the members of the City Board to each other on the shores, a few questions would certainly arise. As far as Mr Hoskosen's comments are concerned, the Green League is now a high priest and a teacher of everything, it is not true that we are basing our research on what we have done. Among other things, Professor Raine Mäntysalo at Aalto University Institute of Land Use Sciences cannot find much positive to say about the proposal: "I do not see this as a good development. In the name of the bureaucrats, the right to appeal and the preconditions of the state is undermined." According to Mäntysalo, weakening the steering power of the Ely Centre and the Ministry of the Environment could lead to over-composition of the planning of trading venues, for example, as municipalities are allowed to pursue their own interests more freely. The result could be unstructured and unsustainable planning. It is precisely on this same subject that we have spoken on many occasions, precisely on this issue that we want to bring our own emphasis to this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u106	And yet again, Mr Halmenpää, and Mikkonen is on the list, and then there are two gentlemen from the back row, Kurvinen and Kärnä. Then let's go on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u107	Madam President! I asked for this reply, in fact, because I would just like to say here that we cannot say with a clear eye that there will be no strikes in the municipalities, and sometimes there will be mistakes, that I do not really trust in the speeches that there will be all-powerful wisdom in the municipalities and that there will never be any errors in the law. Let me give you an example of a pointless complaint about the city of Oulainen in northern Ostrobothnia, where the situation is currently such that a centre-led official and political leadership have denied the owner of the land to his country in a sparsely populated area from a construction site in accordance with the general rule of law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u110	Mr President! I personally see this from the point of view of equity, which is now the subject of this beach construction. Coastal plots are very desirable, and municipalities often want to create such key plots to attract residents to the shores. Now, however, if we have water bodies or a lake that extends to many different municipalities, it is quite clear that if each municipality makes these decisions independently, then this equality will suffer and the equity of landowners will also suffer. That is why it is better to look at these in a uniform way. And as has been pointed out here, the Ely Centre has been very good at this compared to the municipalities: if we look at the complaints that have been made about the construction of the beach, only 9% of the Ely Centre's decisions have been successful when 44% of the decisions taken against the municipalities have gone through these complaints, and I think this is very important. In the same way, expertise has emerged that unfortunately small municipalities do not have the expertise because there are so few staff. I have noticed that now that we have many small municipalities in Joensuu: unfortunately, there has not been so much of that expertise from that technical point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u111	Congressman Kurvinen, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u112	Madam Speaker! Three more points to this debate. First point: competence of municipalities and small municipalities. Municipalities already have the opportunity to organise their own official activities through cooperation. If there is a situation that the small municipality itself cannot cope with the licensing of beach construction and building protection issues, you can cooperate with other municipalities and are already doing so. Congressman Myller: What happens to Ely Centres? There's, of course, some terrible pekulism here at the moment, speculation-peculism, but I'm speculating a little now. After all, we still have some kind of provincial agency or other supervisory body to carry out these supervisory tasks, so this is not a reason to fail to adopt this law. In addition, one of the points of the regional reform is that municipalities can agree whether to do it together as a regional activity or as municipalities. Mr President! This is where the difference in human imagery emerges in different parties and movements. As an embryo and as a centreman, I believe that people want to do good at local level and know the situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u113	Madam President! First of all, to Mrs Aalto, Kittilä is a municipality and not a city. It is also good to remember in this debate that these strikes, which of course occur when a lot of decisions are taken, are also happening in these elys. However, I have the greatest confidence in the local vision, the local decision-making power, and, as I said earlier, it has certainly become very clear to everyone now that this respect for locality does not belong in any way to the ideology of the Green League. These speeches that small municipalities are inefficient and lack resources, yes, the mayor of a small municipality is offended at some level. Yes, the municipalities are trying to take care of the statutory obligations imposed on the municipalities. It is, of course, up to the municipal administration to secure resources for this activity to survive. And, as Mr Kurvinen said, there are excellent opportunities for extensive cooperation in small municipalities today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u114	At this point we will go to the list of speakers and then return to the debate later.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u115	Mr President! Sometimes I feel that the subject of the debate and the government's proposal are the images of different parties. However, I would now like to remind you that we are discussing how we can achieve good planning and land use planning in the common interest. In detail, I will be tabling a amendment to Rule 171. In accordance with this second objection to the report. Again, this bill is such that a large part of the committee is unanimous, and I believe that the whole of Parliament is also unanimous, for example, on the transfer of derogations to municipalities when changing the use of industrial and office buildings, for example, for housing purposes. The disagreement concerns the construction of new shores and the protection of buildings. There has been a lot of talk here that, in itself, the criteria of the law as to the conditions under which derogations may be granted and the kind of decisions that must be taken by law do not change. You are insured that the municipalities will be able to do so. However, I would like to repeat the figures contained in the committee's report. The committee states: "It is possible that not all municipalities have the same level of knowledge and knowledge of the case law that has developed over the last 15 years. 65% of complaints against positive municipal decision-making in 2008-2010 were accepted." Thus, about two thirds of the complaints against municipal decisions were passed, while only 9% of the Ely Centre's similar decisions were passed. In other words, the committee notes that the permanence of municipal decisions was clearly lower. According to a report from the Monitoring Group of the Land Use and Buildings Act, over 70 per cent of complaints against municipal beach plans were accepted, and it is the coastal plans that have been least able to withstand in court. This also reflects the pressure on coastal construction in the municipalities that many colleagues have described in this debate and that does not necessarily result in lasting or even legal decisions. One aspect that has not yet been raised — at least I have not noticed — is the construction of waterfront areas at flood risk. We have municipalities in which local authorities have a great desire to plan places that are certainly attractive in themselves, but which are at flood risk and to which the Ely Centre has not given this permission. I am afraid that in this position we will see unwise decisions. Among other things, Mr Adlercreutz also raised the issue of building protection, and at least Mr Aalto did. I myself come from Tampere, which is not a small place and where, according to all reason, there should be, and is, expertise in the preparation machinery, but even in my own place I know of situations when, in the interests of the short-term economic interest of someone else, it has been a great temptation to make decisions that would have destroyed buildings and billions of cultural history. There has been a lot of fighting over these, and many of these decisions, which have been taken in the council, have changed in the courts. And almost all the things that, for example, were debated at the beginning of my council career in the '80s, and about which the city made these exhilarating decisions, which then became overturned in court, are now about happy that those buildings and the milieu have survived. And therefore, with significant changes to buildings and sites subject to protection, I would leave the power of exception to the Ely Centre. I would be prepared to give the municipality the authority to make smaller changes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u116	Mr President! This proposal fully complies with the Government Programme. In particular, once again, I thank the Ministry of the Environment for the way in which this sector has been dismantled. This proposal is now the first in these areas of construction and zoning. In line with the Government Programme, there are other clarifications coming to this sector that will lead to this development in a sensible way. This proposal will indeed dismantle bureaucracy and duplication of unnecessary work, something that we cannot afford today in society. This will speed up and clarify the issue or prohibition of authorisations. Here I would like to emphasise that decisions are always taken by the municipalities according to the law. They must be done in accordance with the law. So much for the fact that this material highlighted the fact that 65 per cent of complaints against municipal decisions were accepted. But now the essential thing: how much went through without complaint? In other words, the majority have been accepted as such, and the cases considered worthy of appeal have only been dealt with in the complaint, and 65% of those complaints have been accepted. In other words, most of the decisions taken by municipalities have been accepted as such. An essential number of these decisions have gone to the Ely Centres and there has been an issue of exemption and there is a strict procedure. But it is remembered that municipal officials act in accordance with the law. I myself have been a municipal official for so long that I know what it is to act by law. Then the next point is these coastal areas. Even with this decision, not every beach will be fully built. I myself know, as a municipal decision-maker, that we are not going to be full of those beaches, certainly not because in all of us zoning is the main thing. In principle, municipalities make all decisions based on formulas. In this case, too, it is only a question of exemption procedures. It should be noted that the Ely actually retains the right to appeal against the decision of the municipality. Here is what will be the role of the Elys in the future, what will be in the regional reform. I myself am now familiar with the purpose of this reform, how things will go with the environment in the future in terms of living and living. A significant proportion of these environmental issues will probably remain in government-controlled activities, just because there are certain control issues there, which makes no sense for decision-makers at municipal level. In this regard, I am at least quite relieved and relieved that complaints about wrong decisions in the municipalities are certainly moving forward in the right way. Finally, thank you, by the way, to the people in this Chamber. I think it's great to hear how this hall is full of pro-rural people. Indeed, people from all parties seem to think that it is possible to live in the countryside, that coal footprints are not produced much more than elsewhere. We can do well from now on, since it is so good to live in the countryside. In the future, each one of us will choose whether to live in the city or in the countryside. So we will continue with this common green idea.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u117	Mr President! In my own hometown of Joensuu, I have been a municipal decision-maker for decades and have been following the planning process and its implementation for years very close. I believe that this amendment to the law must be supported, with the exception of these formulas on the shore, on which I agree with the objections raised. The debate here seems to be in line with the opposition-government approach, but I believe that there are also people in the government parties who are critical of this section of beach construction in this law. But, as I said, the amendment of the law is good in other respects, because it transfers decision-making power to the municipalities, closer to the people. According to the Joensuu evaluations, the exemption procedure will be reduced by up to 3 months, and that is all right. However, in the event of a transfer of competence to municipalities, there is a risk that these decisions will vary according to municipality, no matter how much the law is. And this is likely to happen, because the number of decision-making authorities is increasing several times, and yes, it is true, although it has been said here in other words that the resources, knowledge and culture of municipalities are very different: some people work well together, but they do not always succeed. The end result may be that citizens are treated differently as applicants for authorisation in different parts of the country and in different municipalities, and this is obviously not a desirable situation. And that is why we need to think about different ways of implementing this law in order to ensure that adequate equity and common criteria are maintained in the resolution of applications for derogations throughout the country, no matter where a person lives. I hope that in the implementation of this law, sufficient training will now be provided for municipal planning and building supervision authorities, and this will help to promote the equality of citizens across Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u118	Madam President! The last time Mrs Maijala made a good speech in this regard was when she praised the exemplary work done by the Ministry of the Environment in this matter and followed the broad thrust of the government guidelines on the dismantling of standards and rigid regulations. I said in the debate on the budget that this is an important part of the budget, and it has now been acknowledged that the government has tackled this issue with determination and efficiency, including through the work of the Ministry of the Environment. In other words, very good work has been done in this area by area of life. As far as this is concerned, I am, of course, fully in favour of the legislative reform now under discussion. Mr Kurvinen has said very well in many of his speeches on legal matters — and Mr Kärnä has just said that all activities are governed by laws and respect for laws is a fundamental principle in all decision-making. I was trying to get to know the works of this law. I did not find such an indicative size for some of the proposals here. This concept of building law "greater than little" does not quite dawn on me. Perhaps it has been on the agenda of the committee through some examples, but there is reason to find in the municipalities a common dimension in the content of this legislation, so that it can be found in the golden middle of an important, very important saying, which is 'greater than the minimum'. It is a bit like that compared to the concept of 'about' — many laws have 'about' — before there is a substantive provision for it. As far as the construction of the beach is concerned, this is quite rightly what has been achieved, but I think there is a shortcoming here. This deficiency is already mentioned: in an area which has already been zoned, with a station plan or other provision comparable to it. There is such a problem that they are not affected by this derogation procedure. Let us look at the situation where different landowners have been building at different paces in different areas of the lake, the other side of the lake may have been built closely in the past, when we had no regulations, if there was a shorter journey, it was hard to travel across the lake. If it comes to the fact that the people on the other side of the lake have been saving their land, there has been no such interest yet, but later there is an interest in these owners to build that and that peninsula, then the builders on the other side of this lake, the earlier builders, have, among other things, used the right as a whole through the dimensioning of this water system and those who have sparingly lived on the plots, have not sold them or sold them just some piece — but then Mama or Papa wants to build for themselves a summer place for old age — no longer gets it. As the role of the Ely Centres in that provincial administration is resolved more precisely, we should return to this issue and think about the importance and significance of the content of this paragraph. Some of the speeches mentioned that we have a shortage of beaches. When a plane flies around Finland, you can see that we have lots of beaches. It is, of course, the case that in some cases the most desirable places have already been built very strongly and are full. It is understood by the common sense of the people, and that is not what the decision-makers of the municipalities are facing. I would say the same as Mrs Maijala: the mere calculation of numbers and the introduction of how many have been successful and how many have not shown how many have been. Individual figures never mean anything in comparison.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u119	Madam President! The Government's proposal to transfer exemptions for construction to municipalities is a very good and welcome proposal, in line with the Government Programme, to reduce red tape and, above all, to eliminate this unnecessary delay in building. That is a good thing, and I salute it with great joy. In the course of this debate, I have been a little surprised by the fact that many speakers have expressed the impression or the impression that construction is somehow wild in the countryside. That's not true, it's the same formula and the same laws. A representative made a good speech — I think it was Mr Kurvinen — when he said that all laws were being complied with, and then we must remember that, for example, the trustees of the committees are in charge. They are subject to the same responsibility as the mayor or the building engineer who presents these building permits to the Board before the decision is taken. So there's no such thing as a wild west. And then the other thing is that the government has defined in its programme that we must mobilise construction in this country, because construction genuinely creates new ones, it creates livelihoods, it creates jobs, it brings tax revenue to the state. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, that at the price of every single house — if anyone, even Mrs Aalto, buys herself a new house — about half of it is taxes for society. If you buy a million houses, half of it, 500,000 euros, will fall into the government's account for that million. Once the house is built, the government has taken on about half the price of its property as taxes. So if we can get construction going in the country, it will raise the standard of living, well-being and reduce debt and increase the tolerance of municipalities and society. That is a very good thing. Such minor deviations and delegating powers, such as deviations from the total building right per site and site, are justifiable and good. If, for example, a family of children builds a house and if it is 10 to 20 square meters, one room or even two rooms, it needs more space and goes beyond its prescribed order, then 10 to 20 per cent may and may be admitted, because there is a good basis for it and it does not pour the world down if it adds 20 square meters to the right to build a house in the zoning area included in this bill. So this is a very sensible and very popular and human policy that also takes into account such exceptional situations positively. When Finland is the least populated country in the European Union, why are we trying to do everything in this country to prevent the construction of a rural area? After all, we have already made the first decision — it is already in force — that the decision on the regional plans has been passed on to the provincial councils. Now we are dealing with this, getting derogations to be decided by the municipalities, which is a good thing. And there is still going to be a change of national regional use targets in such a position that it is possible to build in the countryside. So these three things in a row create the possibility of being able to build on a country, and that is an extremely important matter for the kingdom. Even the opposition has been very warm in supporting the government's proposal to increase the bioeconomy to the most important new soot in this country, as the saying goes, but these bioeconomy jobs will not be created unless people live there in rural areas and that labour force live there. The use of forests requires that those people live there on the spot. Multipurpose machine drivers, machine drivers, truckers and many, many other professionals, men and women who live in rural areas are needed for the management of this country, Finland, both in the forest and in the fields, in factories, health centres and in shops. There is a need for labour everywhere, and if people do not live in rural areas, the countryside will wither. The new miracle of the Ministry of the Environment, which is currently under way, is this landscape conservation project, which is now being carried through with stones and axes, and the Ministry of the Environment has not been honest about that either, i.e. it is being implied that the landscapes are being protected here. No one can protect the landscape except the person who lives there in the countryside. Those fields were born like in my municipality of Ilomants, where the first fields were cleared 500 years ago. Those fields are not preserved there by any Ministry of the Environment's conservation programme or any EU project; they are preserved by the fact that the farmer cultivates the field and manages its own forests, keeps the roads in order and the cultural landscape in order. I don't know any cultural landscapes in the world that could survive without man. Neither the green nor the center nor the Left Alliance have such a magic wand that they can freeze the natural situation until now — that this is the way to keep everything. Every single field will be afforested in ten years when the cultivation stops. This should be remembered and valued by the person who wants to live and build there in the countryside, rather than trying to create artificial barriers. This bill, which the government has now brought to Parliament in the form of a report, is good and supports the Government's objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u120	Two replies, representatives Myller and Aalto, then back on the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u121	Mr President! There has been talk here that municipalities are bound by zoning and that according to its zoning they are built. This is very good, because it is a fair way of taking account of the various interests and it takes place in democratic decision-making. However, in the explanatory statement to this government's proposal, the Ministry of the Environment has also drawn attention to the fact that it is problematic that the derogation procedure is also used in situations where planning is necessary, that is to say, it is a fear, unless there is real attention to these matters, that planning is left aside and instead these exceptional procedures are used, which is a problem not only in finding its common interest, but also many times since it is treated in a balanced way. It is obvious that construction must be possible where people want to live, but it must be organised through planning.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u122	A reply to Mrs Aalto, then to the list.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u123	Madam President! Thank you for Mr Hosko. What you have just said was your most constructive speech today, and thank you for that. But to the point. The reason why we are raising certain concerns here on the opposition front is precisely the decentralisation of civil construction. Above all, when we go out of town, we are concerned about this, as is the case with this scarce product — if I use the terms of economics — which is one of the best delicacy places in the world, the sale of land on the shores. Above all, when it comes to a public recreation area and then it is considered whether it is actually planned for private use, this creates this kind of conflict, as well as the planning and construction of a flood risk area. The last thing I'm saying is that this 65 to 90 per cent, or this permanence of decisions taken by the municipalities, was one of those things that gives rise to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u124	Madam President! Indeed, this bill of the Board of Directors is based on the fact that in the future these derogations will always come in the envelope of the municipality, i.e. from all deviations the decision-making power will be transferred to the municipal level from the elys. As far as I am concerned, the situation that already exists does not change much, for the majority of the decisions on deviations have already been taken in nearby municipalities. It therefore sounds very natural that the development of regions through derogations should be decided by the municipalities, which are also responsible for their own zoning. As a general rule, the decision-making power in municipalities sounds very appropriate, and therefore, almost all of this government bill is very much to be welcomed. As far as these projects are concerned, they must also be courageous in the future, if necessary. There is a lot of good in this government proposal, as I said earlier, and that is a lot of today. But we, as a group of the Sd Committees, objected to one point in the committee's work concerning construction in the coastal area, which has already been made clear here today in this debate. We therefore proposed that the Centre for Economic Affairs, Transport and the Environment continue to have the power to grant an exemption in the case of the construction of a new building in a coastal area which does not have a formula within the meaning of Article 72(1) unless it is for the extension or replacement of existing residential buildings. In all other cases, we believe that the competence to derogate may lie with the municipality. We saw and continue to see that this will help to ensure equality between citizens, for example, in situations where the coastal areas of the same lake are owned by several municipalities, and this is not uncommon in any way. At the end of the day, I cannot fail to say that no one in this Chamber will belittled by the willingness of the staff in the municipalities to make the right decisions for citizens, but the resources, skills and opportunities are very different in different municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u125	Mr President! In addition to what representatives Myller and Aalto have said here, I find it very questionable that special powers are given to municipalities in a particular type of decision-making where the permanence of decisions taken so far by municipalities has been the weakest. The report of the Monitoring Group of the Land Use and Buildings Act also states that the permanence of decisions taken by municipalities on shore plans has been lower than in any other form of planning. It has also been pointed out in this debate that, when complaints have been made about positive exemption decisions, complaints against decisions taken by municipalities have been successful in two of three cases, i.e. 65%, while complaints against decisions taken by the Ely Centre have been successful in one in eleven or 9%. I consider this to be a problem in principle because it is decided to delegate the powers of exception in a case where the experience so far does not mean that local authorities have — I do not know whether it is now more a question of will or skill, but a combination of them — this is always far enough to ensure that decisions are taken in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u126	Mr President! I have already said, but I would like to reiterate to Mr Hassi that the complaints that have been accepted in these 65% are that only part of the decisions are being appealed. So most of the decisions remain in force as such. This is an essential difference between 65% of complaints being accepted. They're not gonna complain about everyone. And now, when this new complaint system starts, we will see what this will be in practice. I do not think that this will be a huge problem in any way. Mr Myller then made one point very clear about this proposal, namely that this construction near the shore and other exceptional issues should primarily be resolved by planning matters, as is the case. But when a significant part of construction in rural areas with an exception is in places that you never, on a moon’s day, it really makes sense to even begin to make a formula, then I’ll tell you if it could happen that if you start working on a plan for a beach construction site, then more people would wake up and think that I, too, have the opportunity to build a beach building here, and things like this. In other words, the fact that exemptions can be granted in municipalities is indeed a way of reducing the unnecessary bureaucracy by not making unnecessary, pointless formulas, but simply concentrating on these essential issues. And there is indeed a fear that if too many formulas are made, then it can even increase the pressure on construction. In conclusion, thank you again for this good presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u127	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u128	Madam President! I bring my greetings from the village of Loka, Tanja Pyhäjärvi, who wrote to me yesterday: "32,000 kilometers. That's what a school year means to my 7-year-old child, 32,000 kilometers a year sitting on a cab. How is it possible that we require children to take longer school trips than adult business trips? Where are the new ways of working, developing and moving forward in the field of education? It is a challenge for a government-like machine to be agile. Sometimes, however, small changes can have larger or new creative effects. I hope that this bill would be just the kind of small change that would bring about development and solutions together by trying. A reasonable school trip, that's what I'm asking for for the welfare of the children." Madam President! In my bill, it is suggested that the student’s school trip should be no more than 160 kilometers per day and, with expectations, take no more than 2.5 hours. If the student is 13 years old at the beginning of the school year, the school trip should not exceed 3 hours. However, the child’s guardian could also be agreed differently. The current law does not define a clear mileage limit for a student’s school trip, but only a time limit. This time limit is very vague and travel times often vary according to weather conditions. Thus, with bad driving, school trips can be unduly long. Adding this kilometre limit to the Basic Education Act would give children and children's guardians certainty that school trips will not become completely unreasonable. Today’s law and its interpretation have led to problems and conflicts, for example, in the village of Loka, where children’s school trip to Sodankylä is about 85 kilometers [85 km] in their direction. Following family contacts with the Ombudsman, this has also stated and stated that the only way to remove these reserves of interpretation is to add a clear mile limit to this law. It is also in favour of setting this mileage limit that the 80 km working area for adults, within which we oblige, for example, an unemployed job seeker to accept work as a condition for unemployment benefits. It is totally unreasonable for a preschool child to have a longer school trip than this. If school days are too long, it directly affects children’s motivation for studying and coping and makes it difficult for them to engage in leisure activities, for example. However, children's guardians must also be given the opportunity to agree with the authority on a longer school trip, but this would not be possible without the child's consent. It is also quite clear that it is probably not appropriate for one child to set up new schools. Instead, we need to introduce new methods and new ways, not to move that child back and forth, but then to bring it home to the child. This is already the case in certain localities in Lapland, for example in Salla, where it has been stated that, because of the lack of this time limit, children study much of their time at home by means of distance education and then visit school in the next few days, and this has also been an excellent and good solution for the guardians. Madam President! At the end of my speech, I would like to thank all the 118 Members of Parliament for signing this bill. I very much hope that this issue will be dealt with quickly and worthy of consideration in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, just for the sake of children's rights. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u129	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, at the end of the day, we are dealing with a bill by MP Mikko Kärnä and others to amend Article 32 of the Basic Education Act. This bill for the amendment of the Basic Education Act concerns a relatively small number of small Finns, our schoolchildren, but nevertheless I consider it very good. It could be said that it is reasonable thinking, and certainly just justice, that for those children who live in areas where we are beginning to have basic education services quite far away, school trips would be arranged by human kilometres and human times. I consider the clarifications made in this bill to the time limits and the number of kilometres proposed to be well-founded, and that is why I myself have signed this bill, and I am one of the 118. But, Mr President, this is a bill, a bill by parliamentarians. We can look at our own constitution, our constitution, and surely it is familiar from school lessons that laws can be enacted in Finland either by a government proposal or by a bill made by a parliament representative or MP. Now our system has introduced a new way to bring laws, build laws, it's like this citizens' initiative. At the moment, we are in a situation where 50,000 Finnish signatures will enable us to bring citizens' initiatives to the attention of Parliament. There is no way that they will be checked in advance, these arguments need not be much, and they move on a very large scale. We have had citizens' initiatives on big value issues, amending the law on marriage, which can be considered justifiable, then on such smaller, I would say, time for ordinary, political issues, like zero-hour contracts or small maternity hospitals, and it feels like these citizens' initiatives are rising like mushrooms in the rain. Mr President! I did a little math right there. 118 Members of Parliament have signed a bill drawn up by this representative, Mr Kärnä. On average, according to my own estimation of what I have followed in politics, about 5,000 votes are needed in Finland to be elected to Parliament. Of course, there are more than 10,000 rakes — we know this d’Hondt method — but perhaps about 5,000 are the average. I calculated here that these 118 MPs who have signed this bill represent some 590,000 Finns. And, Mr President, I find it quite strange and extraordinary, from the point of view of democracy and parliamentarianism, that 50,000 signatures on the Internet with online banking credentials create a process in Parliament of jamming these citizens' initiatives through committees, always making careful reports, there are many objections to reports there, and there are still many representatives in the Chamber to discuss them with citizens' initiatives. I do think that this system of ours is somewhat distorted. As a new representative it is not so familiar yet, but we do have a way of getting the bill signed by more than 100 representatives to be dealt with more quickly and carefully, and I certainly hope that when 118 of our top powers elected by the people have signed this bill, it will get a really quick and careful reading, for it seems strange if these, when there are careful legal initiatives such as these, very well-founded — I thank Mr Karnä — are buried somewhere in the back of the committee and then these citizens' initiatives with false arguments get a better reading, I find it very strange. I would therefore like to send a message to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media in this referral that I hope this will be dealt with quickly and that this will receive at least as serious a hearing and an examination as serious as those of our citizens' initiatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u130	Madam President! There has been a lot of discussion about the Finnish education system here, and one of the advantages of the Finnish education system is the free transportation of children to schools. But it is quite right that the initiative taken by Mr Kärnä, which I myself have signed, has been taken up here. I also wish it itself a proper and good reading in committee. I also hope that the bill will be passed, because it is perfectly justified that the length of school days and school trips for children should be limited somewhat more precisely than is required by the current law. This comparison with the adult employment area is a very well-founded and good starting point. All in all, however, the Finnish school transport system is good for children, and it also means a safe school trip for young schoolchildren. I have over 20 years of experience in school transport. Here in Southern Finland, this kind of long distance, based on kilometres, is not the problem, but this hour limit is also here in the municipalities of Southern Finland already in some areas of overwhelming. It is also a good idea to limit this, because the length of the school day is an essential issue for a young schoolboy. Then I would like to comment on Mr Kurvise's view of the citizens' initiatives and their importance. I fully agree that if 50,000 signatures get a wider reading than this, which Mr Kurvinen estimates represents 590,000 voters, there is a clear lack of clarity here. I would also like to see a debate on this in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u131	Mr President! The initiative states that the student's school trip should not exceed 160 km per day and, with its expectations, should not exceed 2.5 hours per day and that the student's school trip should not exceed 3 hours per day. I support this initiative by Mr Kärnä. We have similar problems in Eastern Finland as in Lapland and elsewhere in Finland. The Saimaa area I represent is completely inhabited, but because of the lakes the distances are long. The school day of too many children is therefore too long, and since schools have been closed down and centralised, the situation is currently bad for the child. There has also been insufficient provision for school rides and reasonable thought of routes for the child. Thus, more and more children sit in a taxi or bus for hours in the morning at night. It also takes time to wait for a school ride. The fact that school days are too long because of transportation affects the everyday life of the child and also the whole family in many ways. Among other things, it reduces the child’s ability and desire to learn when the child is ready for school when he or she gets tired of the trip. Plus, a lot of kids get sick in the car. The whole day of the child’s school will be ruined when a taxi or bus rolls around and bends all the little roads. A 15-minute straight trip can change to sit for 1.5 hours when the rides are saved and all the children are transported by the same taxi. Teachers also point out that schools are not able to provide support to transport students. Participation in school clubs is also almost impossible for these students. Here in Parliament too, much attention has been paid to the unhealthy effects of immobility. It is not good for a child’s health to sit in a car for hours without moving. The long time spent traveling to school means that the child is not out playing and moving. Exercise is the best preventive health care, so the impact of physical activity must be taken into account in all decision-making, and I hope that this bill in particular. The importance of mobility is only getting worse when the long time spent on school trips makes it difficult for a child to engage even after a school day. There is little time left for the evening, and there may be no time for hobbies and no time for long school days. An area of employment of 80 km has been set up for adults, under which the job seeker has been obliged to accept the job. I believe that children should also have the right to reasonably long school trips, and I hope that this initiative will be dealt with positively here in Parliament and in the committees.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u132	Madam President! A very supportive bill, and while it still took the name of more than 100 MPs seriously, the name of exactly 118 MPs, we must congratulate Mr Kärnä as a first-period MP. Finland is indeed a sparsely populated country, and it is certainly not in vain to worry about the length of school trips for our children. We must be concerned at every single party that children are being driven really long distances by buses and little taxis, so that those school days and their trips are really long. In my opinion, Mrs Kärnä said very well that adults now have a work area of up to 80 kilometres as an obligation to take up work and these children's current school trips, with their duration and kilometres, are something else. Some might argue that this is a bad illustration, but I personally liked the illustration. In his own speech, Mr Kurvinen, as a realistic representative, said that this bill, when it was implemented, concerns a relatively small number of children. That's true. I think so myself. But, as in previous debates in this Chamber today, we were concerned all parties that people and families should be allowed to live where they want to live, so in itself we all have to solve those problems in this decision-making process so that the whole of Finland will remain inhabited and that families will also be able to live so that these school trips are decent for children and can be managed so that they do not overburden these young schoolchildren. This initiative is very welcome, and in this debate I would also like to support Mr Kurvis in it — once again another good comparison from the centre colleague — when comparing this with the citizens' initiative perspective. After all, they receive huge media attention, and they are being discussed here very widely, and there are more people here than there are today in this debate. Media visibility is indeed guaranteed. What is the media coverage of the legal initiatives of these representatives?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u133	Mr President! I myself wanted to come here to support Mr Kärnä's excellent bill, which I myself have signed. Perhaps these are the small moments when good legislative work is being done here, and I very much hope that this bill will now also make progress in committee and then come back to the Chamber and then become legislation. It would also be good if an even wider group were to discuss this, because it would give a little perspective to this, when it seems that as the school trip here in Congestion Finland lengthens by 800 metres or 8 kilometres, it is somehow considered quite unfair and cannot possibly be understood that this could be done. When you really go to a sparsely populated area where, at the moment, a lot of children are going to have to sit in a car a very long way to get to school, this will certainly bring a much better measure than this present time frame. On the other hand, this also forces the development of these new forms of teaching, to which Mr Kärnä referred. I would, however, like to see this digitalisation of education as one of the government's top projects as well as new ways of providing distance education better, and in that way it would be possible, if there were still families who live a huge distance away from school, to bring it there much better, in part, and perhaps in the next few days. However, this would ensure that every child, regardless of where they live, receives a high-quality education. With these words, I would like to warmly support this initiative and would like, as many other Members have hoped, to see more public debate on such an issue, where more than 100 Members of Parliament have been able to sign the initiative, than on some citizens' initiatives, where there is not always the slightest sense of reason.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u134	Mr President! Taking care of the school network and deciding on school trips and school transport are the decision-making and discretion of the teacher. The length of school trips is partly influenced by decisions on the municipal school network. The thinning of the school network generally leads to longer school journeys, which makes it necessary for municipalities to define these transport needs and to plan transport in such a way that the time spent on school trips is as short as possible. In addition to the length of school trips, school travel time is affected by transport arrangements and school rules of procedure. In some cases, the student’s choice of subject and, for example, the school choice decisions made by the student’s guardian may also affect it, if possible. School transport should be supportive of schooling and transport should not become a threshold issue when considering school motivation. Well-designed and well-designed transport is one of the foundations of a smooth and flexible everyday life. In addition to the actual journey, the maximum period laid down in the Act includes a possible waiting period. If the student’s school trip cannot be arranged according to the prescribed time limit, the student is entitled to free accommodation and full care. Of course, this should not be the primary solution. When I myself considered the relationship between the mile limit of this bill and travel time, my thoughts inevitably went there during my own primary school time and my own experiences of upper secondary school accommodation. The distance to the school in Kuusamo was only 56 km, but because of bus transport routes travel time became unreasonable. The current comprehensive schooler in my village does not have to be in temporary accommodation, but gets a day’s second trip by speeding up the bus by direct taxi ride. He's got 68 kilometers to go to school. The 160 km limitation of the bill does not bring about any change in the current situation for any of our primary school pupils. Madam President! The implementation of statutory school transport and the accessibility of education have been regularly assessed in the context of the evaluation of basic services. The decline in the school network in Northern Finland over the past decades seems to have slowed down. In the academic year 2013-14, there were 18 students in Lapland who, on one day of school, exceeded the time limit for school travel, for one student it was exceeded every single school day. A couple of years earlier, there were 80 students in Finland who exceeded this school trip time limit. Comprehensive school is a local service for a child. In the 1950s, schools were built at a distance of between 10 and 15 kilometres from each other, because the school was carried on foot and sometimes even by boat. According to the modern view, the school trip could be extremely stressful and take several hours a day. A modern comprehensive schooler is entitled to transport on trips of more than 5 km. However, the concept of a local school, this child’s local service, varies under different circumstances. I also have concerns about the 160 km proposal that has been made. Would this distance become a certain criterion for a child’s local service — a criterion that would gradually begin to direct municipalities in school network solutions and stretch them in a negative direction? Every child has the right to a safe and high-quality local school, but how is quality, safe and equal education ensured throughout the country? Digitalisation will certainly provide some solutions, but the right of the child to learn and interact with schoolmates is by no means a substitute. I would like to thank Mrs Kärnä warmly for raising the right of access to comprehensive school and also basic education as a local service for a joint debate by means of this bill. And I really hope that this will also be reflected in the public debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u135	Madam President! Representative Parviainen also made an excellent contribution to the discussion on the definition of this local service. I believe that this forthcoming and emerging regional government reform will also have to take a position on this, which is a local service, and hopefully this issue of children's school travel will also play an important role. However, I would also like to emphasise in this school transport that, in some cases, there are children for whom school transport is necessary, and when they are safe, those children in part enjoy that school trip, it is not always a burden for that young, small school child. They also learn the rules of transport, the culture of transport, of course, if the driver is reasonable and takes care of it. In that half an hour and an hour — from experience I know — there are many interesting conversations with the child being transported, and such interaction with an adult is also such a social event for that child, it is certainly not always such a negative one. But all these concerns raised, the long school days that it puts on the child, are fully justified and deserve attention. There was also concern that children would not move during that time. Well, a lot of kids today at the end of school day go to the computer and sit at home — if there were that traditional tree climbing and baseball playing after school day, it would certainly be good for exercise. But I would also like to point out that this school ride is quite often a pleasant experience for that child.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u136	Madam President! Thank you again, ladies and gentlemen, the speeches made by the honourable Members will warm your mind, and it is wonderful to have such support for the first legislative initiative that has been prepared and taken. There have been good points of view in this debate, and I believe that, if the Committee on Education now takes the matter up, these will then be taken into consideration. I very much hope, as has already been said here, that this would be one of the small issues in which it is precisely this cooperation that can be done across the government-opposition boundaries and, together, take forward such an important draft law promoting the status of children. It is particularly nice to end the day with such words even after a moderate debatation of what happened in other matters today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u137	Mr President! To this debate, the addition that, when we talk about these transports, we should bear in mind clearly that these school transports are part of the child's day of school and that the quality and safety of these transports must be maintained in all circumstances. And today, when these services are being put on the market, even in this case, it should not go ahead with the money, only in the eyes of the rushes of money, that how much the municipality can save by competitive tendering, but in particular in the transport of children, their quality criteria must be the first criteria and care must be taken to ensure that these transport companies, taxi companies and bus companies, all the things are in order and the drivers are correct, all the trainings have been carried out and that the transport companies ensure that wages are paid in accordance with collective agreements. And it is also important for families to know that the child is on board safely. For example, the issue that has arisen is that it is somewhat unclear to families whether the municipality checks that drivers have, among other things, a criminal record, given that there is no lack of such papers for those working with children. In other words, I think it is important to maintain the quality of transport.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u138	Mr President! Mr Pakkanen's speech made a small comment to ask for. Indeed, the school driver is the educator who often spends perhaps the longest time with the child, a single adult in the school community. I once made a map of this kind of adult contact and a calculation for one class for school transport training. In that class there happened to be more children in long - distance school transport and they were spending by far the longest time with the school driver in a small group — three children and a school driver. Well, here comes the role of breeder. So, a good school driver is a golden thing in the school community.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-03-02-ps-17.u139	Madam President! Just as Mrs Parviainen said there: a good driver is also an important and precious person for the transport company. Representative Taavitsainen raised an important issue — how to clarify the drivers’ backgrounds — and today, at least in the municipalities where the tender is for school transport, the entrepreneur has to write down the drivers to be used in connection with the tender, their personal data. And their criminal record is cleared, it's an employer's duty to find out. On the other hand, it is also up to the municipality to find out if everything is right. Yes, in these parts at the moment, the legislation is in place, and I can say that perhaps one of the most closely guarded staff today is the school drivers of young children, and that is quite justified; there is every reason to do so. There is no doubt about it, that is what must be done, but this is already in order in the current law. The Procurement Act requires this type of intervention.
