ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. Joni Krekola, a staff member of the Board of the Parliamentary Library, has requested exemption from the Board of the Parliamentary Library. The Council of Presidents shall support this request.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u2	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The matter will be referred to the Committee on Finance. The first speaker is Minister Orpo. — — — — Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u3	Madam President! The Government has submitted a supplementary draft budget to Parliament for 2017. Our biggest problem is high unemployment, rising long-term unemployment and the resulting increases in expenditure, which are not really Government-led. Unemployment security expenditure is increasing. For the public finances, unemployment will cause a fall of more than 6 billion next year. In addition, pension expenditure has increased and, among other things, the costs of immigration will still be visible as a result of the massive immigration that took place last year. Nevertheless, now that the draft budget is in its entirety, indebtedness will slow down by EUR 410 million compared to 2016, estimated at EUR 5.5 billion in net government lending in 2017. In the following years, the government’s adjustment measures, the EUR 4 billion savings programme, will begin to bite, and we are also convinced that our actions will be able to support emerging economic growth, so we will clearly get on a better path. Unfortunately, this is still slow and we need to take further measures to improve employment and the economic situation and to prepare the next new measures, but I will draw attention to the fact that a number of reforms will come into force from the beginning of next year. With regard to this supplementary proposal, I would like to raise a few points. Firstly, the unallocated reserve for 2017 which the Parliament, the Finance Committee, can consider, is EUR 40 million, and in addition, EUR 300 million will be reserved for 2017 for additional budgets. On individual issues, I would like to highlight in particular the increase in police appropriations. This is based on a programme to combat the illegal activities of violent extremists in the government's own strategy session and is aimed in particular at securing the number of policemen. With this money, we assume that all policemen and women who are currently working and not retiring will be able to continue working relationships, including fixed-term contracts. Therefore, the total number of police officers next year would be around 7200, which is basically the maximum that can be reached. As far as the number of police officers is concerned, it is worth noting that, in the last two years, the maximum number of people trained has been the maximum that the Police College of Applied Sciences is able to take, so the number of police officers will thus have the potential, to secure the number of policemen, even to increase the number of policemen, but in the next budgetary plan we will then have to look at the years to come. But as far as next year is concerned, the situation has been secured. Of this 10 million, EUR 1.5 million will be allocated to the protection police, which is particularly justified in this international but also in our national security situation. Security must be taken care of in such uncertain times, which is absolutely essential from the perspective of the citizens, Finns. Another big question is the solutions related to the Talvivaara mine. EUR 100 million will be allocated to Terrafame Group for rational arrangements and to secure them. This was, as was the case here last Thursday, the government and the Committee on Economic Policy's assessment of a sensible solution at this moment. Progress has been made in the mining area and from an environmental point of view, which is absolutely essential from a procedural point of view, and also from an economic point of view towards a positive cash flow. After huge sums of money have been put into this in the past years, just now that this translation for the better has taken place, it did not make sense to make a decision to close. It is also quite clear that in some time, in some perspective, this mine activity must be made positive, because in the long term the state cannot finance loss-making activities, but the assessment by the current management and government is based on the fact that this development is good and in the right direction, and we assume that sustainable solutions will be found in a very short timescale. Still, the budget for military crisis management will be increased by 16.8 million. The majority is due to the extension of the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon. A small but important issue is the cost of compensation caused by amendments to the Military Accidents Act by crisis veterans, an increase of EUR 0.8 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u7	Before the debate, Mr. Aalto.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u8	Mr President! The Government's proposal to supplement the draft budget for 2017 includes both an additional capital decision of EUR 100 million and a State guarantee of EUR 107 million. The purpose of the State guarantee is understandable in itself, but what is symbolic is that the company is unable to manage its own affairs and, on the other hand, the state money is needed to help. So the government is now also putting the environmental risks of the Winterfell mine to the taxpayer. Is this what's going on? Minister Rehn explained at the meeting that the Government promised Talvivaara EUR 100 million in additional capital so that it could seek the best possible negotiating situation with an external sponsor. Negotiations are likely to be still in a difficult phase, as there are as vague promises about an external sponsor as before the granting of additional state funding. When the mine makes a loss of EUR 10 million per month, the State can already prepare for the next capitalisation. Minister Rehn also referred to the payment of guarantees under the environmental permit from the State bag. Now we see what Minister Rehn meant by this. Once again, this is about EUR 107 million new with the State guarantee. As regards Winterfell, the following questions remain open: How can the operation of the mine be profitable on market terms? World market prices for nickel and zinc have improved, but due to many uncertainties in the economy there is no certainty of further development. The question to Minister Rehn: will the processes used at the mine work alone and together, and how is environmental safety and water balance management actually to be managed? The extremely interesting question is also that the mining permit regulations, tightened up by the Vaasa Administrative Court, will remain in force for a long time, as the environmental permits imposed for the renewal of the mine will be dealt with up to the highest administrative right before they obtain the power of law. And the alleged improvements in the mine's environmental impact are mainly due to the illegal extra runs of millions of cubic metres, which have not been addressed by the supervisory authority. There is no evidence that the safety of dam structures and the safety pool capacity have been improved during Terrafame. Mr President! In any event, it is certain that the company has paid a total of at least EUR 840 million to taxpayers throughout its life cycle even before the government’s new additional capital of EUR 100 million and the State guarantee of EUR 107 million. Additional capitalisation will not be enough for long when the mine makes a loss of EUR 10 million per month. Another interesting question is that Lauri Ratia, Chairman of the Board of Terrafame Group Oy, said that the company would apply for additional funding of between EUR 150 million and EUR 200 million. If, according to Ratia, the mine is becoming profitable as early as 2018 in terms of cash flow, how much ownership of the company is still reasonable at this stage to give to an external sponsor if it is only a relatively small additional amount of money in relation to the state's current investments? When it comes to cash flow, it is important to understand that the cash flow does not say much about the real financial situation of the company. It's not about debts or assets. I would also like to ask, Minister Rehn: has this cash flow forecast by 2018 taken into account environmental permit obligations and investment requirements? Madam President! All in all, it is worth asking: Is it that if the mine is made profitable by any means and by any means, the government will pay the violins and the external financier will win the lottery? When the mine has not been a particularly attractive investment, is the state promising a more favourable environmental permit for an external sponsor when the latest decision of the Vaasa Administrative Court was even subject to public pressure at ministerial level? The credibility of Terrafame's environmental responsibility would be greatly improved if the company did not constantly seek to loosen the environmental permit conditions through its own actions. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u9	It is now possible to have a debate on this subject. I'd like to request representatives to report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u10	Madam President! There are huge uncertainties in the international economy. There will also be elections in many countries of the European Union which will further increase this uncertainty. It is therefore important that the government specifically supports measures to support entrepreneurship, employment and growth. We have some areas in Finland where growth has started, but there are also areas where progress has not necessarily been made. It is therefore important that the government continues to give the opportunity to Kainuu, Winterfell and Terrafame, which are important for employment. That is why we should continue to give the opportunity — I know that we have attitudes so that others are ready, others are not, but it is precisely in this situation that we must proceed in such a way that the government is given the opportunity and, once this opportunity has been exhausted, this issue can be re-examined.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u11	Mr President! The Government's proposal to supplement the budget is clear. This has to do with the economic policy picture of the whole government, which is being implemented by the government. The SDP's alternative budget is only two weeks old, or — one can still say — young, but I am pleased to say that it is already beginning to come about. In this supplement, the government is now finally withdrawing this unfair and inhumane surgery on the care of the elderly. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the government for now agreeing to this subject under pressure from the opposition and citizens, older people and carers. I would now like to ask the government: are all the issues that the government intends to withdraw from this budget now in this supplementary proposal, or are you going to reconsider, for example, withdrawing the draft law on integration support? This would be important information
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u12	Madam President! What was really great was this Friday’s decision not to make this review of the nurseship, but to reconsider it, and it does tell us that we have wise leaders — I would use this name — who understand that we can always reconsider, and together we have done this. It is great that the opposition is now taking these strawberries, but the opposition may not know what action has been taken here in the background.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u15	Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to these two points which have already been raised in this debate. I would like to thank you for the fact that this weakening of the nursing system is now not being implemented and the quality and level of care for the elderly are being secured for everyone. Especially for those who face the most serious challenges in their treatment, it is important, and then this basic care must be sufficient. But my concern is that the government is still planning a savings target of some EUR 70 million for the care of the elderly. I am concerned about whether such a thing can be done at all without any deterioration in the quality of care. So would you be prepared to reconsider it, and what kind of austerity measures are you now considering if you continue to move forward in some other way in implementing the savings in care for the elderly? I am concerned about this because quality assurance is very important. From Winterfell, I would just say that this supplement now adds a total of EUR 207 million to the project, which has become like this, as a gambler's risk, that when you have already become a lot of loss, you will not dare to stop. I'd like to ask you now.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u16	Madam President! Growth in next year is forecast at 0.9%, mainly thanks to private investment and private consumption. There is therefore a slight positive development. But we must keep in mind that the total volume of exports is what we need to invest in and work for, and we cannot escape the fiscal imbalances. That's what we need to do. That is why the government's reform work deserves all the support and encouragement it can have in order to achieve that reform work and thus the balance of public finances. The Government will also make a significant choice of values in this amending budget, the supplementary draft budget, because the government will allocate additional resources in this tight situation, especially to those concerned with the safety of Finns. The additional police budget and also the increase in compensation costs for crisis management and military accidents are a clear choice of values for security — good.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u17	Mr President! I understand the concerns of the Kainuu people about employment and the adequacy of jobs in Kainuu. But it is also worth noting that there are also concerns about the state of lakes, the future of fishing and the effects of Winterfell on nature and the environment. This Terrafame project still has many points that raise doubts and questions about both the profitability of the mine and the management of environmental problems. If there is a loan that I too trust as a left - winger, then it is that private capital in general seeks productive money. Now this mining activity is still heavily loss-making and yet additional funding is being proposed, even though this former condition of private funding by the Government has not been met. How can we be confident that this cycle will not continue as it has been so far? I would also like to ask the Minister whether these profitability assessments have taken into account the additional investments required for environmental permits.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u18	Mr President! You just have to be amazed at the power the Left Alliance and the Greens are going to make Kainuu 1500 unemployed. Here, in his own speech, Mr Aalto asked how to get the water balance in Talvivaara — it is already in order, it is in order — and, second, how to make the operation profitable. In the same way that we have read in the news that the process has been put in order, that environmental issues have been put in order.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u21	Madam President! I, too, want to give all my support and also praise the company's employees and management that many things have moved forward. But it should be borne in mind that if we talk about some 500 jobs, the cost of one job is more than EUR 1 million. If we talk about some 2,000 jobs, the cost of one job is over 400,000. What else could that money have done for Kainuu without ruining the environment? The fact is also that it is necessary to ask in this cash flow forecast where that cash flow forecast is based and where there is evidence that all environmental issues have actually been addressed. I'm sure you'd see some private money if the company were as profitable as they say it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u22	Mr President! To the previous speech: we are talking about an investment of between 40 and 50 years, and then this comparison is very lame. When you heard the comments of the Left Alliance and the Greens, the old saying came to mind: the pessimist will not be disappointed. I think it is a great thing that the government trusts Terrafame's leadership and the prospects and the work that has been done there. The second option is to drive Terrafame down and spend EUR 500 million of taxpayers' money in a situation where the light at the end of the tunnel is visible, and you too admit here that this is the case. That would be an absurd decision. This would result in annual tax losses of around EUR 150 million. This would result in a huge number of unemployed, several thousand unemployed with multiplier effects, and those unemployment benefits and other social security contributions would be paid by Finnish taxpayers. This is not just about Kainuu, it is about Finland as a whole and the interests of Finnish taxpayers and the positive development of Finland's economy and employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u23	Värderade Talman! Of course, it will be a great thing if the mine is profitable and, as a result, these very expensive jobs are saved. However, there are quite a few questions. When this activity was launched, the world market price was 35,000, since then it has been at 8,000, now probably about $11,000 per tonne. The Ratia opinion has required a price of 16,000 by 2020. It goes beyond the World Bank's forecast. It has also been said that a positive cash flow requires a production volume of 30000 tonnes per year, which is more than twice the maximum achieved so far. I would ask: Are these realistic, does the government see that there is realism here, and if not, what is the red line that cannot be crossed? What is the red line that
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u24	Madam President! The completion of the 2017 budget is clear and gives hope. A lot has been said about Terrafame here, and I must say right now that 80% of the Kainuu people live around Lake Nuasjärvi and it is a very important lake, the state of which, of course, everyone must be concerned about. But now it looks much better: there are more than 50 depths, and all the depths are being studied. We will now have a new report by the end of the year — it will be an objective report on what has happened there. In any case, the Ely Centre's report on last week seems to have been successful in the autumn water cycle and there is a clean space in this one deep area, which was problematic in the spring. With regard to the price of jobs there in Winterfell, everyone can of course count that, if a pulp mill like this were to be set up, which is already the case, for example, there is a billion-dollar investment in this area, jobs will be created between 400 and 500. That's the same class.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u25	Madam President! Here in the opposition we have enjoyed the fact that the government has withdrawn the reduction in the number of carers, but at the same time we must be concerned that, when no additional funding is forthcoming, but that savings target of 70 million seems to be maintained, is it now the case that we are going to loosen the interpretation of which workers will be counted as carers in the future? There has already been a public concern that, for example, the caretaker will in future be one person at the place of institutionalisation who is considered adequate for the scale. I would therefore like the Minister of Finance to make it quite clear here that this is not going to mean loosening up who the staff is considered to be carers, because it is extremely important for the elderly that they receive good care and that the care they receive is precisely professional and comes from a professional background.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u26	Madam President! The government's not canceling. It's moving forward. This question of the dimensioning of care for the elderly is an indication that the government has a strong, large heart and is persistently seeking alternatives in a difficult situation. This solution, that the treatment size should be maintained, is important. I would like to say here that, according to the old-age service law, the human resources must always be based on the need for the care and services of the customer. What does this change now mean? This means that it can be made more flexible so that that dimensioning is viewed on the basis of the care of the residents and the changes that are taking place in it, i.e. customer-oriented, Mrs Rinne. I hope that this will also suit the opposition as a whole. What's important is you have to hold on to your skills. The janitor is not a nurse in the future, both have their own important tasks. Those quality recommendations are being updated and must be done carefully, the big work is still ahead, but this is an indication that we want to respect the work that is being done with older people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u27	Madam President! The cancellation of this carerisation is very good, and although Mr Sarkomaa is here to say that it has also been the will of the government parties, one must be surprised why the government parties have made such a proposal at first, and it can then be said that this was not the case. I am pleased on behalf of the family, of course on behalf of the elderly, that this came, but still on the same issue as Mr Essayah I am concerned about: what is the 70 million that is being raised there? Is it the case that, in the future, even citizens will be included in the scale or qualified enough to cover these costs at a lower wage cost? The second question is: is 10 million extra money enough for the police because that money is being put into furniture acquisitions? The goal was to hire 200 policemen after the turn of the year to keep up with the current figure, and yet, in the case of the informal economy, there was no increase.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u28	Madam President! It is certainly a good thing that, after two weeks, Minister Orpo will be bringing in a supplementary budget proposal which will start to comply with the SDP's alternative budget for the cancellation of this brutal cut in the government' s commitment to care for the elderly. This is a good start, and we must hope that the next supplementary budget proposal from the government will come as soon as possible, and then perhaps the next wrongs will be cancelled by the government. For example, this diabetes allowance is something that citizens cannot understand that such a government can present. This alternative budget is good in the sense that we can catch a catch in many respects. Minister, even in the coming weeks, when tax laws, for example, are here again in the debate, we have an option in which both employees and pensioners — 95% of wage and salary earners and pensioners on low and medium income incomes — would benefit from the government proposal. I hope that these tax policies and others will now be taken up and that the government, in its next supplementary proposal, will reverse these most brutal cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u29	Mr President! As far as Terrafame is concerned, I understand that the state has set itself the objective of continuing environmentally sustainable and economically viable mining activities, and this is a path which is very much on the road. Terrafame is not Winterfell. With determined work, those mining processes have been made to work. The environmental issues have been put in order. The problematic water balance has been halved, not by extra running, but by the efficiency of mining processes. All the time, the very strict emission limits of Vaasa's administrative right have been lowered, so it must be stated beyond doubt that these processes are working and that environmental issues have been put in place in many ways. The cost of production is also falling all the time, so I also see that this capitalization is very reasonable, bearing in mind that it is not only about Kainuu's employment, but it is about more than 4,000 people's jobs when they go full-time.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u30	Mr President! It would be best if the Winterfell mine could continue. It is very important for employment in the region. However, the precondition is that the mine is economically viable and that environmental problems are solved. If there is a credible view of this, it is worth giving an additional budget at this stage. The question, however, is whether there is a credible prospect when a private investor has not been found, and the question is when the conclusions will eventually be drawn and how long it will be worth pouring taxpayers' money into it. It would be best if, at this stage, Parliament could obtain an external study of the realistic potential of the mine. Mr President! It is wonderful that the government withdraws its intention to reduce the age-care allowance. However, these savings targets for care for the elderly remain valid and the government is seeking to save tens of millions of euros from care for the elderly. This is not just a trick, because the savings are valid and it has been said that nurses can also be counted as nurses?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u31	Even before the ministers, Mr Niinistö.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u32	Mr President! The environmental risks of the Winterfell mine have improved from the brink of acute environmental hazards. That must be acknowledged by everyone, and for that I would like to thank the current management and employees of the company in Terrafame for having a clearly higher level of professionalism in this regard than in the past. But that does not remove the fact that there are still significant environmental risks. Their management involves costs that will continue to require investment. The investments now made are not enough to ensure that the mine continues to be environmentally sustainable. And then the profitability comes on top of it. If we compare with the Turku shipyard, the Turku shipyard did not ask for state aid by saying that we know how to make ships that stay on the surface. So far, Winterfell has only explained that we may be able to get the process under control. Well, that's not enough. It should still be worth it. And now that view of that profitability has been postponed further and further so that the money invested under the Sipilä government would already be
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u33	Minister Orphan, five minutes tops.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u34	Mr President! First of all, about this nursing appointment: Let me repeat that the 70 million savings target is being maintained. It is important not only for the implementation of the austerity programme for this planning period, that is to say, for the balance and credibility of public finances, but also for what I would like to point out here, that, by the end of the 30th century, the cost and need of services for the elderly will increase by 70%, and when we know how tight our public finances are at the moment, each of us will understand that we have to do something. Growth alone is not enough, because it should be quite spectacular. Then we must constantly reform our practices — how we hold on to the good, valuable care and aging of our elderly — and that means what we are now seeking, namely flexibility, rationalization, new practices, the exploitation of technology. Together, STM, THL, including private sector actors and VM, are now working on ensuring the economy, going through and preparing for it. I think that we are on the right path now, so that at the same time we take care of both the elderly and this important public finances of ours. If it is healthy, we will be able to take care of the elderly in the future and in the future. We need to go through this whole chain of elderly services, this huge challenge and think about how we can support as long well-being as possible and living at home, services to be taken home, service housing, supported service housing, and then perhaps lastly, that institutional care when it is needed. If this can work and, in the context of the social welfare reform, we have active care chains in which the elderly can get the care they need at the right time to the right place and rehabilitation and once again home, then we will be able to respond in some way to the enormous need for services and the need for money that we will have in the future. Congressmans! With regard to police money: in a situation where everyone is being cut off, we have now added 50 million in government programme negotiations to internal security, justice and police appropriations. In addition, on several occasions along this road, we have already increased the budget for the police, and now another 10 million. Compared to the fact that at the same time we have to cut where it actually hurts too, this is an important choice of values, as Mr Jokinen has pointed out here, which the government has done, because guaranteeing security is one of the basic things that citizens need and need, and I believe that this is necessary. As I said, we assume that it will ensure the continuation of the current trained policemen and women’s work after the turn of the year. It is good that the SDP is also engaged in tax policy and tax reduction policy, and that is a great innovation in your policy making. You have generally been celebrating when taxes have been tightened and, in particular, the taxation of work and business. This is very gratifying. I can say that the government's proposal will reduce the taxation of workers and employees and pensioners by 100%. I think that is an excellent thing. And what I forgot to mention: This supplementary proposal also provides for a further EUR 33 million over the former EUR 30 million for the most disadvantaged, i.e. the most deprived, so that this reduction in the taxes on labour and pension income from the Kiki Convention can also be brought in fairly to the lowest incomes. I think this is an excellent question of justice, and I hope that, with a few cautious thanks from the opposition, there will be a place of thanks and praise here too. And then to the last point: I leave Winterfell and Terrafame to Minister Rehn, but, Mr Niinistö, when you usually reproached the government for everything that is happening in the world, you could have thanked the administration and environmental authorities of Terrafame for making progress on environmental issues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u35	Secretary Rehn, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u36	We thank Parliament and representatives for a proper debate, and thank you for that, and above all the leadership and staff of Terrafame for a very good, excellent job in the success of the operational operation of this mine. Thank you for that. There were a number of questions raised in this debate, and two or three of them I would like to answer here and bring light. The first concerns the guarantee arrangement to which Mr Aalto referred. This proposal was made because the government decided to prepare for a significant increase in guarantees relating to mining activities in the environmental permit of the Supreme Administrative Court currently under consideration. As a result, this proposal for a provision of EUR 107 million was made for collateral. I would like to point out that this is a reservation. I would also like to stress that this guarantee arrangement would be directed above all at the foreseeable measures to close the mining business, which the State would have to bear in the event of closure. I do not wish to be closed, unlike Mr Andersson and Mrs Aalto, either because these reserves would be more likely to be realised and brought to the hands of the state, the taxpayer. I'm surprised the Greens and Left Alliance couldn't solve the issues of Terrafame and Winterfell when you were in the government for years. In retrospect, it is easy to be wise about these things. From the point of view of Terrafame’s continuation, Terrafame has strong evidence of good environmental management as well as of the planned recovery of production. From the perspective of the state owner, the parliament and the government, it can be estimated that there are realistic conditions for achieving profitable mining. The process of private financing has progressed positively. The aim is to continue to ensure further funding for the company by the end of 2016, and by allowing negotiations to continue beyond the turn of the year if necessary, the Government wants to ensure that Terrafame has the opportunity to achieve the best possible result in order to continue its operations. Representative Aalto said that the government is striving for the best possible outcome: yes, quite rightly quoted, and it is a much better option for both the environment and the regional economy and employment in Kainuu that Terrafame will succeed. Currently, serious negotiations on private finance are under way. I cannot go into them in detail, but I would stress that it is no gamble,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u37	Then let's go back to this debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u38	Mr President! I will return a little to the previous subject, which was also raised in Mr Orpo's speech, namely that the police will now receive an increase of EUR 8.5 million to target the central criminal police and the local police in order to combat the illegal activity of violent extremists. A good thing in itself, because if the government's original budget had been implemented, it would have led to a reduction of more than 200 police officers. According to my information, the average police salary is around EUR 3000 a month, and taking into account the additional costs, the staff costs of 200 police officers are considerably more than the EUR 8.5 million that has now been presented. Which means there's still a shortage of more than a million dollars. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, how do you intend to resolve this issue when there are several million euro shortfalls?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u39	Madam President! Increasing the budget to the police is a good thing. That is a good thing, and it is also nice to say it, because the SDP, in the debate on the referral to the Internal Security Report in the spring, impaled this level to 7200, the level that the government itself has reached since winter. Thank you for this. But I do think it is wrong to give the impression that this additional EUR 10 million will deal with the problems of police duties and the problems of this resource, which this Chamber is giving us. The Minister rightly added that, in this economic situation, patching up is a choice of values. I agree with this, but in relation to the role of the police and the environmental change in which the police live, the increase in the budget is not sufficient. At least you must not give yourself the impression that this will solve all the problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u40	Secretary Orphan, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u41	Mr President! I got it right away. — — — — I think that the representative I appreciated had now misunderstood what I said. I am certainly not trying to say here that all the challenges related to the work of the police have now been corrected, certainly not. This was a euro-denominated response to the acute situation which the police themselves expressed in detail only in the autumn that these fixed-terms are threatening to end. Even in the spring, when a budget proposal was prepared in my previous role, the police's own idea to us was that it would have been enough to employ everyone, in that sense you were right to do so in your own option. But it is certainly not possible to respond to all the threats that the Internal Security Report, among other things, makes very clear. But this is what the government is capable of in this difficult situation, and that is a lot.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u42	Mr President! It is really great that, in the course of this government, we have had jobs, unlike we lost so many during the last regime. A lot of good decisions have been taken during this government. This carership was particularly important — and I would like to say this separately, although many others have already taken it on board. This amending budget also has a good transport project: EUR 5.7 million is proposed for this electrification of the Pori-Mäntyluoto railway section, which aims to improve the operating conditions of the industry, the competitiveness of the metal industry and reduce harmful emissions from transport. When Satakunta is really diverse in its structure and Finland needs more export shares, we need more exports and market shares from the world, then this increase in Satakunta's infrastructure should become more.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u43	Madam President! Now I am a little offended by my fellow player, Minister Rehn, when you implied that, in this debate in the Chamber, the Left Alliance would have already knocked out this recapitalisation or guarantee arrangement. That is not what we have done, we want more information, we want more answers. The Prime Minister stated that there has been a miracle in Winterfell. Do we believe in miracles? We want to believe in facts and to really be sure that both in an environmentally sustainable and economically sustainable way Winterfell is possible and we hope that jobs and activities can continue. But this miracle also includes strange things, and it was revealed in the TV programme where Lauri Ratia stated that all options aimed at positive cash flow in the first half of 2018 include uranium recovery and perhaps other earth metals. Is that right or not because it matters?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u44	Mr President! The overall picture of Finland's economy has recently received mild positive signs, although of course it is overshadowed by international uncertainty. The estimates have been slightly positive and, of course, there is a kiky agreement and much more. There have now been quite a number of investments announced, even to an unexpected extent, that some kind of turnaround after a long walk in the wilderness can be spoken of. Minister Orpo, you are on top of the latest information, the minister best informed about the economy, hopefully. I would like to ask you an assessment of the overall picture of the Finnish economy. Can you, in a few sentences, tell me where we are going, and (b) I ask you: from what direction is the government looking for a new kick, an extra kick, so that this positive momentum may continue and perhaps even become a wave?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u45	Mr President! In such an economic situation as we are, Finland needs investment. The Tampere tram project is a good example of investment that not only increases sustainable urban development, increases employment during the construction phase, but also brings jobs to the Kainuu Transtech factory in Otamäke. This is a good project, and it is good that the State has committed itself to this project with a 30% share, but I would like to take this opportunity to ask Minister Orpo whether the government has discussed the fact that, once the costs of this project have been revised and increased from the original, the State has committed itself to a 30% share of these increased costs as well. This is a good project, and it is great that it will happen, and it is great that the Council decided this month, but we still need a commitment from the state to these total costs of 30%.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u46	Madam President! It is good that Terrafame has been made better than during the previous government, and it is also positive that police funds are being increased and carers are not being cut to 0.4. I would also like to thank the entire government for the rehabilitation money for the Kriha veterans. Now that it has become clear publicly that the shadow budgets of opposition parties are also cutting out of education,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u48	Mr President! It would be good if Members of Parliament were to strive for truth in this Chamber. Congressman Heinonen is not known for that. The Greens' alternative budget will significantly increase funding for education from this year to next year, and we will vote against all the government's proposed cuts. We reject all government cuts in education, and our option is to spend EUR 446 million more on education in the state budget than in the government option and taking into account the municipal increases, when returning full entitlement to day care, EUR 655 million. If the Coalition Party is concerned that too little money is being spent on education, why are you not putting a cent more when the Greens put EUR 655 million more than you? We are committed to canceling all cuts to be made during this parliamentary term after the parliamentary term, I would also like to conclude, Mr President, that as far as Winterfell is concerned, Mr Rehn is now putting his legacy to the point that you are now profiled by the fact that a lot of state money is being put into Winterfell, and you have promoted Fennovoima.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u49	Madam President! Mr Niinistö, you have said that the government cuts half a billion euros from universities every year. That is not true, and it is also shown by your alternative budget: you are not proposing a return of half a billion. In other words, when the government does not do the kind of surgery you claim to have in the social media, you are not returning it yourself. Also, your alternative budget does not provide for the restoration of the higher education index. That is why, when you accuse us of dishonesty, it would be honest to admit that it has now not been done there, as the Left Alliance said, that they do not have university indices in their alternative budget. And at least Mr Arhinmäki said that it has been overlooked and will be corrected. That is why I proposed that the Greens should have such an opportunity to make a supplementary shadow budget and correct their own mistakes, that they should be in line with what is being disseminated in the social media.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u51	Mr President! I find this style really inappropriate. We have said that we are against all your cuts, and every single vote of your cuts in education we are against,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u54	Mr President! Yes, as far as we are concerned, the government cuts education so much, in so many ways and in so many degrees, that, in the alternative budget of the left-wing union, this one cut was not included, but we will also correct this in the forthcoming proposals. This is mainly a proposal on the extent of government training cuts. But, of course, if you want to bring it up this way, it is your choice. Mr President! With regard to Terrafame, I would like to make it clear that the Left Alliance is taking the Terrafame situation very seriously. We are assessing the government's proposal, but we have a sine qua non that these environmental problems have been brought under control and that there is a credible view and vision of the future profitability of this mine. In this connection, I would like to ask the Minister: if it is so clear that mining is becoming profitable, why has this private funding so far not been obtained, as was the previous policy and condition of the Government?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u55	Madam President! I said in this Chamber exactly a year ago: "Representatives Soini and Arhinmäki are retiring, yes Ville Niinistö is the leading populist in this hall." Many people at the time wondered about such a tough position, but when we have followed what kind of populist opposition policy Mr Niinistö has led the Green Party, I do not think that many people are still wondering about that statement. As far as Terrafame is concerned, it was used to say that someone was doing something about the stick, now Mr. Niinistö is doing things about the hat. As far as training cuts are concerned: You can say, Mr Niinistö, that we have spoken against all the cuts. Yes, you are. But when you make your own shadow budget, where no one will stop you from putting every cent of it for exactly what you want,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u58	Mr President! It's exhausting all the time to go through and correct your claims.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u60	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u61	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u62	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u63	Mr President! I'm sure you'll be confused when you listen to this conversation. Indeed, it seems that many of the so-called good deeds of the government are due to the fact that the bad deeds you have done for so many Finns are being rewrapped. In the Socialist alternative budget, we do assume that 95% of both employees and pensioners will benefit. Today we've been told how you're going to reverse the surgery on care for the elderly. You're not going to cancel them, you're just going to cancel the nurseship, but those other things are still not done. You've been telling me here how to get the police's money back. In fact, 10 million will not be returned. In that respect, I think it would be a good idea if we were to remain strictly frank. I would like to know from the Minister when, however, the Minister for Finance is here in the debate whether you have considered cancelling the cuts in education. I think that this example of Winterfell shows that you have the will to increase employment, and on the education side we have lost thousands of jobs. In this new barometer, when Finns said that 90 per cent of Finns consider educational cuts to be a mistake, do you cancel them?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u64	Madam President! Kemijärvi, Kemi, Pietarsaari, Uusikaupunki, Turku, Äänekoski, Kuopio — they are the kind of names that are now considered when there are big investments or job increases going on or about to start. This tells us, thanks to the trade union movement and employers, that the Kikiy agreement has brought credibility to the economy and the government's policy has created the confidence that Finland is now investing and creating jobs. Over 100,000 jobs were lost during the last parliamentary term, GDP fell. Now both have turned around, and this is a sign that we have a brighter future, that we are about to get over that dark stream. There are still problems, but the work continues. Municipalities are not currently in debt as happened last season, and it guarantees good services for people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u65	Madam President! There was a heated talk and, of course, thanks for keeping the nurse’s standards intact. I think it is very good, of course, and I also welcome the fact that the care of elderly people is better taken into account, so it will be possible to use the trained staff in care facilities, in services. I would now like to remind the opposition that this government is putting a very heavy investment in family and family care. That is what has been said, even as regards the development of informal care, the opposition has also spoken about it when they are in the government that it is necessary to do this and that. But that is where more money will be put in this period than in the whole of the old-age service law last season, so you should remember that this also affects the elderly. The development of informal care also affects family carers for long-term ill children and young people. Holidays can now be arranged because short-term family care can be provided for family care when a family carer wants to be free and so on, and the fees will be increased and so on. I consider this to be a very important, big, significant reform, but it will never come up in these debates, because it is embarrassing to put so much money into this now, which you did not do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u66	Madam President! Minister Orpo there rightly said that the cost of care for the elderly will increase and, as a result of ageing, this cost of care will increase. Of course, all means must be developed to curb this cost growth and create quality and improve and strengthen its well-being. But now the government seems to be leaving this line of surgery, as you are suggesting that 70 million will be taken from the heaviest care of the sick, long-term sick, multi-sick elderly. We do not think it is the right address, we do not think it should be cut out from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u69	Madam President! The decision to cancel the carer’s cut was the only right solution. In Finland, we have the smallest carer size in the Nordic countries, but at the same time we have the best know-how in the services of the elderly. With this knowledge we have been able to compensate in many ways for this very small staffing that we have in the kingdom. Now, however, you are undermining the multiprofessional geriatric skills of carers, which is the basis for all the development, as Mr Haatainen, for example, has just said. At the same time, you are taking away a responsible worker from elderly services, which has been an essential part of the development of elderly services. This is justified by the fact that the duplication of work between self-careers and responsible workers is the reason for this. But now, in practice,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u70	Mr President! Thank you, the government, for giving the police more resources. Thank you, the government, for giving the veterans more money for rehabilitation. Thank you, board of directors, for keeping the carer's size at 0.5. There's a lot of us in the government with a nurse's background. Nurse-backs and all the other members of the board want this to be kept at 0.5, and that is what will happen, thank you for that. It's looking brighter now. We have 20,000 fewer unemployed than a year ago. If you think of New Town, which is where I come from, Saab, the car factory, once fought very hard for these difficult times and it still exists and now a thousand more will be hired next year. That's great. Turku shipyard, great. In other parts of Finland, too, a lot of light is visible. I would like to ask the worthy ministers Rehn and Orpo: How can we?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u71	Madam President! From Terrafame: In mid-October, I spent the day there, became acquainted with the activities and what they have done. In fact, having 35 years of work experience in the land transport sector, they have done a good job. They've been poaching them in a new way, with new technology. They've fixed them up in a way that lets them go to the sewage treatment plant. I'll give you a full ten for what they've done there. However, we are still concerned about these environmental factors in the Left Alliance: how to ensure that the new situation does not escape. It has been thought of in this way that if you could get a university to do a study there in such a way that it would be impartial, because at least some of the Members of Parliament seem to have doubts about what has come to light in this Chamber, this study by the Ely Centre, that they are very impartial studies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u72	Madam President! As a member of the Environment Committee, the environmental aspect is important to me, and I have visited the mines in Winterfell and Terrafame a few times. Emissions must be taken care of, but we must also think globally, at international level. Nickel and zinc have to be produced somewhere. If it is produced in Finland, then good, and if it is done in an environmentally acceptable way, even better. I ask Minister Rehn: can you assess whether it would be better for the environment to produce what is not produced in Finland in a competing country? On police matters, I ask Minister Orpo: was it the case that police training places are to be increased at the Police College of Applied Sciences in Tampere? Apparently now, with retirement, people are retiring at an accelerated rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u73	Madam President! Although there have now been positive signs in the economy, we have also read from this supplementary budget that Finland's economic situation is still weak, and it seems that we are facing even greater challenges than has been estimated. Of course, the good message is that debt is slowing down by around EUR 410 million compared to this year, but according to a recent assessment by the EU Commission, Finland is still among those countries, or has unfortunately become one of those countries that are at risk of falling short of the targets set. This is why the government’s reform work and measures to address the sustainability gap are of great importance and will play a greater role. This is not an easy exercise, but as is the case with these wise words, which have been heard here many times, you cannot fail to do so. At this stage, I really hope that the government will have the strength to fight for Finnish work, jobs and Finnish well-being, and I agree with these thanks for the additions made in this budget. In particular, concerns about the police's operational resources and their reflection on priorities such as missions have recently been very high, investigation times have been prolonged, and this change in the security environment has brought about a variety of new tasks. This EUR 10 million is a very large and important increase in the amount of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u74	Mr President! One of the things that has now been mentioned here is employment, how it has now improved so dramatically. It's true it's healed. In the last month, 600 people have been less unemployed than one month earlier. That is a good thing, of course. In any case, we still have 330,000 unemployed people, 123,000 long-term unemployed, an increase of 9600 in the previous year, and yet the government wants to cut unemployment appropriations and unemployment security. I don't think this really sits down, and it doesn't go together. Has the reverse side of this matter been considered: What does it mean for the municipal economy? How much is municipal spending going to increase? How much more is applying for social security? How much more money do municipalities need? Finland is such a country that we need a place for everyone here and we also need bread — just as we do elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u75	Madam President! However, this Government proposal to supplement the 2017 budget is a positive message to the world. We have risen from economic grief towards better days, and, as we have heard the previous day, the bank's economic forecasts have risen, including the Osuusbanki's slight increase in Finland's economic forecast. It's a positive message, so I can't understand this gloomyness, then I can't understand it. Terrafame's operations in Talvivaara have been very successful. We have managed to get things under control, production will increase, and in a year's time in 2018, we will achieve a situation in which the activity will be profitable. It was in an extremely difficult situation, and now it has been translated into a positive one. The development continues, and if world market prices continue to favour the operation of the mine, then we are in a good position. Yes, we must believe in the future and stop this constant complaining. The Demari must be commended on the Winterfell Toffafame case. They're realists. Finland needs work, not complainers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u76	Värderade Talman! Of course, it will be a great thing if Terrafame is put on its feet now that 207 million more money is being put into it. Let me repeat the previous question: what threats and uncertainties does the government see in these estimates, on the one hand, the evolution of prices and this rather large demand for capacity-raising, on the other hand? Then, if I have understood correctly, we have been talking about a positive cash flow at the beginning of 2018. It is different than that it is a profitable activity. When have we thought that this activity would be victorious? Have you built any scenarios from this point until then, any additional funding or anything else? And is there some sort of red line that crossing means we're going to go down?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u77	Before the ministers still represent Rydman, Laukkanen and Parviainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u78	Madam President! Of course, it is wisdom that if we find a planned target of savings problematic, the government will be prepared to reevaluate it as well. But it is equally wise that the government insists that our financial carrying capacity is maintained and that we do not become indebted and that foreign creditors can also rely on the Finnish economy on a sustainable basis. We have concerns from the Commission all the way to the rating agencies about how Finnish public finances are doing, and here I think it is important that the government has explicitly stated that if some planned expenditure cuts are cancelled, then savings will be sought in some other way. I find it worrying that we are now forgetting this big picture of the economy on the part of the opposition and calling for further expenditure cuts to be withdrawn. A road like this would lead to such an untenable situation,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u79	Madam President! These increases by the Ministry of Finance have been quite successful, and we believe that they also target very many painful points and provide answers, particularly this 33 million for these disadvantaged people. It is very good that the Minister raised this point. I believe that a responsible economic policy would require the opening up of the possibility that, when this Winterfell is financed with tax money, how will it be ensured that the money will be recovered from it in due course? You could have opened this up a little bit more here and told me what that picture of the future is. It may be bad and weak for the citizens to see that there is always money here when it needs money, but then there are not going to be many other pain points for a few million. I believe that this is what the public over there is thinking,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u80	Madam President! I, too, pay attention to the number of police officers. It is good that you have intervened in the government too. The big question, however, is how, as the Minister of Finance Orpo certainly remembers from his time as Minister of the Interior, the development of the police's staff year towards the end of the decade. I would like to ask you: how do you see your chance to secure police resources in future budgets, especially since we have been discussing foreign fighters issues in Finland today, which require a whole new kind of investigative resources from our authorities? As a second comment, I would like to say to the representatives of the Assembly, Mr Zyskowicz and Mr Heinonen, that this, as such, your pleasant reel from the green alternative budget has now been running for a week and you have received the same answers many times.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u81	That's right.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u87	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u108	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u117	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u182	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u189	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u192	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u193	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u194	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u195	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u202	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u203	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u211	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u214	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u302	Mr President! Perhaps a few comments on Mr Hakkarainen's speech. In time, companies have paid church tax, but since 1993 business tax has been abolished. Since then, companies have paid corporation tax, which goes to the Treasury. Then, here in Parliament, we have decided what is the share of corporation tax paid to municipalities on the income of corporation tax, and what is the proportion paid to parishes. Indeed, from the beginning of this year, as Mr Essayah said, the system was changed so that this corporation tax rate was no longer paid to the parishes, but was a separate so-called state aid system designed to replace the social functions that the congregations are obliged to perform, the greatest burial activity and then the various functions of the population records and then these historically valuable buildings. I read an article in a magazine by retired Professor Tapio Lampinen in which he pondered this change or the threat that if the government strongly reduces support for the congregations, then is the solution of the congregations then, in the next step, that we begin to reduce resources to care for, for example, hero cemeteries. I think that Finns think it is important that our cemeteries are well managed and that the hero cemeteries are also treated. This is what is needed, and it is reasonable for society to support this action. Instead, with this support, the government does not finance a centimetre of spiritual activity in the congregations. The funeral always reminds me of a priest and a cantor, hospice bells and chapels, but these activities are not supported by this funding, but only by keeping a cemetery, organising a burial place and such things as are part of a sort of secular, social burial work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u303	Mr President! That business taxation issue is quite clear, but I would now like to ask Kantola if the church is running a register of members other than its own. I have the impression that only one of his own members and not, for example... I'm a member of the civil record, and they're from out there. But this is a small matter, but that is something I would have asked — of course, the church does not break the law, if that is the case, that illegal immigrants, denied asylum tourists, whatever they may be — go to the church’s premises, are these really people in need? There are plenty of those storytellers on this planet. If the government has made such a rejection decision, how can the church take such a role and then introduce itself as such a pious factor here and as an aider? I don't understand it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u304	Mr President! Even when the person himself does not belong to the church and his population records are maintained at the Local Register Office, there may be situations — even if the basic writing situation is considered: yes, the majority of his relatives may well then be part of the church’s population records, so that even such a person benefits from finding the information related to his relatives somewhere. In other words, we have these population records in Finland not only at the Evangelical Lutheran and Orthodox Church but also at the Local Register Office, and most Finns probably have these data cross-checked in these different registers. But I really would have liked to sharpen it, and Mr Kantola has already pointed out that this aid does not support religious activity. We then have such a system for religious communities, a kind of system, which is based on the number of members of these religious communities, and it also supports the social activities of these religious communities, which are therefore non-taxable, that is to say, none of these subsidies, which are intended to support religious activities, but it is, in a sense, recognised through this support that all these actors have an important role to play in this society. The aim of these grants is to recognise and support the role of this social function, and in that sense this system in Finland is perfectly functional in its basic principles. Of course, the amount of these appropriations and how these indices will be implemented can be discussed, and the KD Group has assumed that we do not want these indices to be included.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u305	Mr President! Only briefly answer Mr Hakkarainen's question: The Government's proposal states that the net expenditure on the keeping of church books in 2015 was EUR 18.3 million. The cost of the official tasks related to the population accounts is estimated at EUR 3.7 million. In other words, it is not the holding of the entire church books in the congregations that is supported by the state, but part of it is the kind of official activity for which the state then pays compensation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u306	The 11th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u307	So the second reading will continue. I give the floor to Mr Kiljune.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u308	Mr President! Thank you to the President for this debate, because there was indeed an accident here. I would like to make the following statement on this subject: "The proposal requires Finland to promote common legislation in the European Union, which would extend the coverage of country-by-country reporting to the company's own websites, extend the scope of country-by-country reporting to all companies subject to transfer pricing notification.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u309	Mr President! I support Mr Kiljune's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u310	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u311	Mr President! The Government's proposal 149 proposes to adopt a law on index revisions of national pensions and certain other benefits in 2017, whereby the national pension index would be permanently frozen at the level of 2016 in derogation from the legislation and, in addition, the national pension index would be reduced by 0.85%. The proposal, this amendment, would concern national pensions, guarantee pension, but also disability benefits, basic unemployment allowance under the Unemployment Protection Act, labour market support and child increase, but the amendment would also apply to the basis for determining benefits linked to the National Pensions Index as well as to amounts of money, such as the limit on the annual allowance for pharmaceutical payments. The measures proposed by the government target people who are already disadvantaged in society. In addition to this proposal, the government is also targeting many other cutting measures for the same group of people, and I therefore believe that the combined effects of the various measures will result in an unreasonable and humane outcome. I therefore propose that, in accordance with protest 2, these legislative proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u312	Mr President! This is also one concrete demonstration of how the government is targeting cuts to the most low-income people who depend on various social services. The Act applies to all benefits linked to the national pension indices, such as guarantee pension, disability benefits, basic daily allowance under the Unemployment Protection Act, labour market support, child increase and minimum amounts in accordance with the Kela Act on rehabilitation allowance benefits. The proposal would also apply to the basis for determining the benefits to be revised annually by indices linked to the National Pensions Index, as well as to appropriations such as the limit on the annual own resources of reimbursements of medicinal products. Mr President! This index freeze and the reduction in the national pension index have a permanent cumulative effect on the level of benefits, as the change in the index is not to be compensated for later. According to forecasts, price developments in the coming years will mean that normal index increases from 2016 to 2019 would be around 2.8 per cent in total. The proposed reduction of 0,85 % therefore represents a reduction of around 3,5 % compared to the normal trend forecast. The level of social security benefits to be cut is already low and the Social Rights Committee of the Council of Europe has already pointed out that Finland is too low a minimum level of social security. Mr President! These cuts are not justified in any way and, in accordance with our objection, I also propose to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u313	Mr President! These government index freezes and cuts cause a humane deficit in this government's budget, because all these cuts are directed at disadvantaged people. In fact, you could say that they could be grouped into three categories: families with children, people with a lot of illnesses, and there are people with low pension incomes who stick to their livelihoods. Indeed, these measures may also partly target the same group of people, for example, in the case of sick and low-income pensioners, and this synergy is disproportionate, and indeed this lack of humanity in this budget is visible. I support the motion for rejection tabled by Mr Tanus in response to protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u314	Mr President! I, too, consider these legislative proposals to be unreasonable. With very low incomes among the persevering population, these proposals would be excessive. I therefore support Mrs Kiljunen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u315	The 13th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u316	Mr President! In the government's proposal, 151 governments are trying to cut out child supplements. In the case of child supplements, the total amount of surgery is EUR 11.7 million, although child allowances are no longer categorically included in index-linked benefits. The government is cutting child supplements in three different ways. The index increases in child supplements were abolished at the beginning of this year instead of a temporary freeze, and it is estimated that the abolition of indexation will already cut child supplements by 4.1 per cent by 2019. The operation is in strong conflict with the promise that child supplements will no longer be cut. The child benefits were indexed in 2011 and index increases were made in 2011 and 2012. Before and after this, no index increases have been made, resulting in a 30 % decrease in the real value of the child benefit since 94. At the beginning of last year, the number of child allowances was cut by 8.1%, which was compensated by the tax deduction on children. In a year's time, the government will also abolish the child allowance, and now the government is also cutting child supplements by 0.85%. It is the most vulnerable people who are undergoing child replacement surgery. In particular, cuts in the daily life of deprived families would be disproportionate, so this government proposal as index-linked benefits cuts, as proposed by proposal 151, cannot be accepted. In view of the above, I propose that, in accordance with objection 3, the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u317	Mr President! The government now plans to cut child allowances by 0.91% in order to achieve savings in public finances. In the short term, the cut will have a minor impact on the disposable income on average. However, in the longer term, the proposed reduction in the child benefit level, together with the removal of the child supplement index that entered into force at the beginning of 2016, will reduce the purchasing power of child supplements. Over the past 20 years, the purchasing power of child supplements has fallen by about 30 per cent. Mr President! The original purpose of the child benefit was to equalise income between families with children and households without children. Child allowance is a universal benefit paid to all families with children, which is not affected by their income. When child benefit no longer follows either price or income trends, it would be necessary to assess how child benefit should be developed, but it must be fair and specifically supportive of families with children. Mr President! We cannot accept unequal decisions on families with children. As a result of the various government cuts, the life situation of children on low incomes will now become even more difficult. The poverty of families with children has increased since the 1990s. We should do everything we can to prevent the poverty of families with children from becoming more difficult in our country, thereby increasing the inequality of children. Rather, we should turn the other way to reduce inequality among families with children. Mr President! We cannot accept the operation of child benefit as part of this whole, and for this reason
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u318	Mr President! As I said earlier, it is precisely these humane deficits that also affect this group, i.e. families with children. Of course, it is very strange to remember the last period of government when the centre was in the opposition, the criticism of this 2015 child allowance cut, which was compensated by this tax reduction on children, which ensured that it was the low incomes and middle incomes that this cut was not applied. Now the center of the government is about to take these through. First, instead of this temporary freeze, the index increases in child supplements were completely abolished from the beginning of this year. In that sense, it must be said that, in this situation, we can only support the motion for rejection in accordance with Mr Tanus's objection 3.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u319	The debate is closed. — Well, let us see now that Mr Kantola has made it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u320	Mr President! A while ago, I pressed that button. I tried to be quick. — My point, Mr President, is that I support Mrs Kiljunen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u321	The 14th item in the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u322	Mr President! The Government's proposal 152 aims to cut the housing allowance for pensioners. This is also an unacceptable proposal and I therefore propose that, in accordance with protest 2, this bill be rejected. The purpose of housing aid for pensioners is to supplement the security of the basic income of a person receiving a small pension and to reduce the housing costs of low-income pensioners. The goal is that a retired person could continue living at home for as long as possible. Housing allowance is granted to persons living in both rented and owner-occupied dwellings. The disposable income of low-income pensioners is mainly influenced by housing costs and, in particular, by the level of rents, which have recently risen relatively quickly and very rapidly compared to general price developments. At the end of 2015, nearly 200,000 pensioners received housing allowance and the maximum eligible housing expenditure was exceeded by nearly one in four beneficiaries. At the same time, the national pension index-linked benefits will be reduced by 0.85% in 2017, and in addition, as already mentioned here, the Government proposes that the indexation of the amounts of benefits linked to the national pension index should not be carried out in the following years. All these cuts and many other cuts in the same groups of peoples and increases in the share of ownership are, together, causing a situation which is an unreasonable burden for pensioners who have built our society. This bill must therefore be rejected.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u323	Mr President! The Government intends to further reduce the situation of the most economically disadvantaged pensioners by keeping the maximum housing expenditure, the average housing expenditure and the euro amounts for heating, water and maintenance costs in the case of the pensioner’s housing allowance unchanged, i.e. due to the previous freeze at 2015 level. The freezing of maximum expenditure should now further increase the number of beneficiaries exceeding maximum housing expenditure and income support expenditure. In practice, people receiving housing allowance for pensioners are the most vulnerable to pensioners in terms of their daily income. Their livelihoods are also significantly weakened by other cuts in benefits already made by the government and planned for next year. At its worst, the difficulties in the pensioner’s financial situation and the uncertainty in the housing situation undermine well-being and functional capacity and increase costs in social and health services. The main problem with housing allowance is the low level of eligible rent compared to market rents when granting the aid. Many recipients of housing allowance have to fill their low housing allowance by relying on long-term income support, even if it should serve as a last resort. We cannot accept attempts to curb rising housing costs by cutting the benefit for the recipients of housing allowance. Mr President! In view of the above, I propose that the bill be rejected in accordance with our objection 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u324	Mr President! Here is another group of people, i.e. pensioners on low incomes, to whom this index cut in the housing allowance for pensioners is now being applied. In that sense, given how housing costs are constantly increasing, especially heating, water and maintenance costs, and also today, when the government has put forward a proposal to increase the lower limit of property tax, and many municipalities will certainly use it as an opportunity, it will indirectly affect rents, or if there is an owner-occupied dwelling, so will also increase these housing costs. These increases in costs come from one direction or the other, and in that sense this lack of humanity, which I have mentioned here, continues to deepen in the case of this group of people. In this case, I support the motion for rejection tabled by Mr Tanus in response to protest 2.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u325	Mr President! I support Mr Kiljune's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u326	The 19th item in the order of business will be presented for a partial, partial second reading. First, on the basis of the report of the Administrative Committee, HaVM 20/2016 vp, it is decided on the basis of a single reading of the agreement and then on the basis of a legislative proposal at second reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-11-22-ps-118.u327	The 25th item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 23 November 2016. The Council of Presidents proposes that the following procedure be followed for the sole examination of the third draft amending budget: The representative who intends to propose amendments to the report of the Committee on Finance shall submit his amendment to the central office no later than 2 p.m. on Wednesday 23 November 2016 at the latest. The debate will begin with a general discussion. All amendments will first be tabled in detail and then put to the vote. To the extent that no amendments to the draft amending budget have been proposed, it shall be deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
