ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 35/2016 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session on 14 December 2016.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u2	Section 25 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice is now presented. Mr Kankaanniemi, President of the Section.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u3	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for a good draft budget and the section members for their careful and good work on the draft budget of the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice's main category of expenditure will be approximately EUR 916 million next year, or EUR 16 million less than in the current year. The committee stresses that the degressive level of appropriations requires structural reforms in line with the Government Programme and the programme for the development of justice by Minister Lindström. In particular, it is important to implement ict projects on the basis of plans. In fact, EUR 17.4 million will be allocated to this next year. The committee proposes an increase of EUR 500000 to the Registration Centre. The financial situation of the Legal Register Centre is exceptionally tense. Its important work is essential to ensure long-term security. There, too, the development of information systems is important. The committee welcomes the increase of EUR 2 million for Victim Support. Activities financed by victim fees will enable the implementation of the EU directive. According to the information received by the committee, next Monday a free national support phone based on the Istanbul Convention will be introduced, which will also be financed by crime victim fees. Some of the courts are still congested. There are problems with the number of cases and their severity. The committee is particularly concerned about developments in the coming years. Structural reforms are essential. In particular, the provision of resources for lower courts is important in order to be able to resolve matters in such a way, [Second Vice-President, Arto Satonen : I would ask that we focus on listening to the speaker. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u6	Then Minister Lindström, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u7	Mr President, ärade talman! I would like to thank the governments, the sections on local government and health and their chairmen for the thorough work you have done. The total of the draft budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Justice is 917 million, taking into account the increase of EUR 500000 proposed by the Committee on Finance in order to ease the acute deficit of the Legal Register Centre. Without taking into account variable annual electoral expenditure, the level of appropriations in the administrative sector is EUR 15 million lower than in the current year. The reduction in the level of appropriations is mainly due to cost-neutral reductions under the Competitiveness Pact. As I said in the debate on the referral to the draft budget in September, the current financial situation of the administrative agencies, and also next year, is good, except for the Legal Register Centre. In order to remedy the weak financial situation of the Centre, the draft budget contains a number of proposals for measures. The most important of these is the launch of a large-scale ict project at the Legal Register Centre, which has received EUR 1 million of additional funding for next year. In addition, the Board of Directors and the Finance Committee propose additional funding of a total of EUR 700000 to secure the operation of the Register Centre. However, the economic stabilisation of the Centre needs to be continued. In order to maintain a good level of functioning and finances for administrative agencies, it is important to implement the Government Programme's measures quickly and to make determined progress on the ict projects that improve the efficiency and efficiency of the justice programme and, of course, to continue to manage the disciplined expenditure. Key structural reforms in the administrative sector include the intention to reduce the number of district courts by creating larger units. The aim of the reform is to create the conditions for improving the quality of justice and to improve the efficiency of the courts. On the other hand, outstanding debt cases and other civil cases are to be concentrated in a few district courts. The government's proposal on this is due in spring 17. Third: The structure of the Legal Aid Offices was reformed by a reform already in force in October 2016, the effects of which will be visible from next year. The aim is to streamline and clarify governance so that more resources can be allocated to customer work in the future. Fourth: 17 will prepare the organisational reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office from the operational point of view so that the new organisation can start from the beginning of 18. Fifth: The activities of the Criminal Sanctions Agency will be developed in the current prison network in order to ensure functional capacity, and EUR 3.7 million will be proposed to the Criminal Sanctions Agency for the maintenance of the prison network. This level increase will increase significantly during the spending limits period in the budgetary plan: the level increase will be EUR 8.8 million in 2018, EUR 11.9 million in 2019 and EUR 10.4 million in 2020. The employment incentive traps associated with enforcement are dismantled. The Ministry will shortly set up a working group to prepare for this. The task of the working group is to explore the various options for dismantling employment traps related to enforcement and to propose the most appropriate solution. As an alternative, the working group shall assess the potential and impact of an increase in the coverage of enforcement and shall also assess other options and their impact and identify solutions for long-term unemployed debtors. The proposal of the working group will be ready by 30 June 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u8	Mr President! Thank you, Minister. It is a good thing that money is allocated to Victim Support and support phone operations for victims of intimate partner violence. Thanks must also be given for the new construction of Hämeenlinna women's prison, which will help to get rid of Hämeenlinna in 2019, among other things. You, Mr Lindström, launched a study aimed at ensuring, in accordance with the Government Programme, that the penalties for crimes are fair in relation to the reprehensibility of the act. I would like to ask you: what is the timetable for the completion of this report, and can we then make these changes that the people want to see?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u9	Mr President! The Lapps were somewhat confused by the visit of State Secretary Paula Lehtomäki to Inari. He put forward the idea of two Sámi groups: the Sámi who would be on the electoral list and be allowed to vote in the Sámi elections, and the Sámi who would be Sámi but would not be on the list and not be allowed to vote in the elections. This raises many questions. Are these two groups and their people part of the only indigenous people in Europe? Will the members of both groups enjoy equal rights for indigenous peoples? Do members of both groups receive social support for the development of language, culture and livelihoods? And first of all, was this the sole thought of State Secretary Lehtomäki, or is the minister and ministry behind this?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u10	Mr. Speaker! The Minister announced that enforcement of enforcement legislation will be carried out by a working group which will quickly address the issue of passporting very large numbers of long-term unemployed, especially young people, when creditworthiness has often been lost due to a small amount of money, and will make it extremely difficult to come to a practical life due to a loss of creditworthiness. This is a very large and large-scale reform which I expect from the minister's working group.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u11	Mr President! The grey economy is estimated to be around 5 to 14 % of GDP in the various surveys. The government's overall efforts to combat the shadow economy are not increasing, especially in view of the need. And when the President of the Chamber, Mr Kankaanniemi, presented the report, neither will these small increases in appropriations that have been agreed by the government groups in committee be a centimetre in the fight against the shadow economy. On the other hand, we have a number of millions of dollars in our protest because more money is needed for the budgets of the police, the Tax Administration, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the courts and the enforcement and bankruptcy authorities. I would like to ask the Minister in general,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u12	Mr President! The Legal Affairs Committee held a rather serious debate on the budget of the Ministry of Justice's administrative sector. In our expert hearings, we did have a very serious concern about the state of our courts. Our courts are congested, as has already been said, and basic funding is just not sufficient. Indeed, the committee noted that the inadequacy of appropriations is ultimately reflected in the length and quality of the proceedings and thus in the implementation of the legal protection of the people. This concern about the legal protection of Finns is now great, and I would like to hear the Minister's view on this: can this funding safeguard people's legal protection?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u13	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office and, of course, the Minister for good presentations. It was a pleasure to hear that the administrative sector continues to undergo structural reforms which seek precisely efficiency and, at the same time, financial responsibility in very sensible ways. In particular, I would like to highlight this working group mentioned by the Minister, which is beginning to think about moderate enforcement for those who have been subjected to life-long debt imprisonment. This lifelong burden, which some, for various reasons, each through his personal way, have taken on, is both humanly and economically unreasonable and unreasonable. We must also have the right to fail in this society, so that we also have the courage to try in this society. That is why I am very keen to encourage progress and to remain ambitious and on schedule.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u14	Mr President! I too would like to thank the Minister and the section president for their good presentations. I am pleased to say that these structural reforms will continue and in this way we will have better justice in Finland. Of course, I too am concerned about whether this judicial process will be carried out equally across the country. I would like to raise two great points: Financing Victim Support — that is great, because there are people in distress: victims of crime, victims of serious crimes and witnesses. They need support and help. And then such a great thing is this foreign-Finnish letter vote and its additional funding. I have met representatives of the Finnish Expatriate Parliament several times, and they are sure to be very satisfied with this point that they are now given the opportunity to vote by letter. I would like to ask: when an electronic vote is coming, is it perhaps possible to obtain funding for it during this parliamentary term and to move on with it or whether it is going on?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u15	Mr President! The fight against financial crime and the shadow economy requires a functioning chain of authorities from Tax Administration and the police to the prosecution institution and to the operating conditions of judges. One weak link in this chain is the prosecution's office because of its resource problems. The increase in the number of cases received by the prosecutor, particularly the increase in demanding cases, requires sufficient staff to allow for an effective investigation and handling of financial offences. Without it, the objectives set will not be achieved. That is why the Christian Democrats are proposing, in the course of the debate — and we shall vote on it — that the prosecution should carry out its duties, particularly in the case of the shadow economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u16	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Minister for a good proposal, and I would like to draw attention to one very topical issue. Today and these days, the fine procedure is entering into force. The reform clarifies the penal practices, but at least myself, when I have been involved in many of these, I have felt that perhaps this fairness is not always being achieved in the best possible way, and it has also been criticised that measures have been taken to cover the bottom of the state treasury. I would like to ask the Minister whether Finland would be able to introduce this scoring method, which is very common in Europe and in many ways fairer than what is currently used in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u17	Mr President! There are half a million people in this country who are currently in enforcement — the causes are diverse — and that is a very good thing if the government is now dismantling these incentive traps. But is there a disassembly mechanism there that would actually defuse these traps? The situation is that many who have fallen into that squalor are actually paying their debt capital several times before they get out of it, and that is why they are stretching. This is because it is a very fragmented distribution of debts to those to whom it should be distributed. Is it possible, Minister, to change the order in such a way that, when paid to voudi, capital would be lost first, then expenses and only last interest? At the moment it is the other way around: first interest, then expenses, then capital. This order
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u18	Mr President! Indeed, the shadow economy in Finland results in large tax losses to society. In addition, the shadow economy undermines the overall tax morality and makes it more difficult for companies engaged in legal activities to compete. According to some studies — I think this is Parliament’s Audit Committee for 2010 — the size of the informal economy is between EUR 10 and 14 billion per year, which corresponds to 5.5 and even 7.5% of GDP. This means that the shadow economy will cause economic losses to society of between EUR 4 billion and EUR 6 billion per year. Does the Minister of Justice feel that the resources and resources in the draft budget to combat the shadow economy are sufficient? In the alternative budget of the RKP and the Swedish Parliament Group, we are proposing another 20 million contributions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u19	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister and to the President of the Section, Mr Kangas, for a good presentation. This is a very worrying situation, however, that there is an increase in the number of non-payment subscriptions. In fact, they are larger today than at the end of the recession in the 1990s: more than 80 % of adults have default marking, ranging from 360,000 to 370,000. I would have asked the Minister: what can we do to change this direction, because the growth in the labelling of payment defaults is precisely due to quick-lease companies and their future operation? And another thing is that when municipalities have incorporated their activities, such as, for example, health care services or even ticketing trips, when they give you an infraction ticket, they are usually charged quickly — even dental or library fees are charged. It is quite unreasonable for people to be imprisoned in debt for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u20	At this stage, I will give the answers to the Essayah and Eestilä representatives, and then the Minister's answers. Then we'll continue our debut.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u21	Mr President! In his speech, the Minister mentioned the thinning of the district court network and, of course, the reason for these state savings. However, these savings are very difficult to justify, among other things, the closure of the office of the District Court of Iisalmi in Upper Savo, because the majority of the so-called customer base comes from the nearby Sukeva prison. If you think that the trip is going to lengthen to Kuopio, it means that escorts are needed, for example, for that trip of double comparison. On the other hand, it is also known that there are not enough facilities in Kuopio to take over all these Iisalme cases. I would have liked to have heard a little better arguments from the Minister. In fact, the same is true of the abolition of the District Court of Varkaus. There is no way that Kuopio will be able to accept these two district courts with the current resources. That is why I would have liked to have heard a little better arguments from the Minister now than these state savings, because, at least in that region of North Savo, these savings are not real according to the calculations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u22	Mr President! This over-indebtedness is one of the major problems in society at the moment, it is a real time bomb. I ask the Minister whether a positive credit register can be introduced in Finland as soon as possible, so that the creditor immediately knows what this person is in debt to, because in reality people themselves do not know where they owe money, and it is not possible to impose this over-indebtedness on the quick-lease companies alone? The second question concerns the seats of the district court mentioned by the previous speaker. I would like to bring to the minister such a common concern between the representatives of Northern Savo and Eastern Finland that, when these structural reforms and cuts are carried out, these cuts are very often applied to the same regions. It cannot help but have an impact on the fate of the future. For example, this abolition of the seat of the Upper Savo District Court affects the fact that our export companies
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u23	Secretary Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u24	Mr President! I will start with Mr Heinonen's question on this right-of-law investigation. In other words, the project is indeed under way, and in that study the citizens have been asked for appropriate punishment for various criminal cases — violence and sexual offences, among other things. In addition, judges have been asked to assess the penalty in the same criminal cases in accordance with the current penal practice. This research material has been collected and the analysis has begun and the results will be completed in summer 2017, when they will also be communicated. Then it is time to draw conclusions. So this is how it is going to be with this issue, and of course there is always news that weighs this public sense of justice, and in that sense it is good that we are now able to study the information. I'm trying to answer bigger entities like this. Mr Tolvanen asked, or someone asked, about this online vote — yes, Mr Tolvanen. In October 24th, the government called it. One day in its strategic session, Finland will move to an electronic vote, i.e. to an online vote, alongside a traditional vote in all elections.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u30	Mr President! It is a very good thing that in the government negotiations the government parties decided to improve the fiscal frameworks compared to the decisions of the previous government, based on the guidelines of the parliamentary working party, not entirely but in the right direction. Otherwise, we would be in a disaster situation — thanks to the government parties and to us who were there in the negotiations. Then here the section president made an excellent statement about the situation in Pelso Prison. 2008 In the evening school of the Old Government, it was decided against the suggestion of the then Minister of Justice that Pelso Prison should not be abolished but developed. It is now almost ten years since this development has taken place, and now health authorities have required that part of the prison capacity be dismantled, and temporary facilities are now promised to be built. I particularly call for a permanent solution to the Government spending limits debate to ensure that the 120-seat prison is secured in the future, and I hope that the Minister of Justice will:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u31	Mr President! Last year in this Chamber, at the same time, we discussed the quality of the drafting of legislation and, among other things, whether the Ministry of Justice would only need one single minister. They say well prepared is half done. That is still true. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, of course, in all the other committees too, we always assume that things are as well prepared as possible. Sometimes, however, it seems that the Ministry of Justice, for example, has sufficient resources for proper, appropriate and competent preparation. Is that the case, Minister: do you have sufficient resources to prepare good legislation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u32	President! You really don't have to be jealous of Minister Lindström. Yes, he has a heavy double minister's briefcase, but finely and responsibly he does his job, considering that resources are also scarce. I, too, would like to say a word to this matter of Upper Savo District Court. Indeed, we must ensure that the objective of saving the euro does not cause damage to EUR 2. But I would also like to say something about what the committee has rightly drawn attention to, namely these adequate resources for judicial training, now that there are training posts and the establishment of a training commission. I hope that we will really see to it that things are getting better. And at the same time, it must be remembered that for this: Again, when is the Court of Justice realism?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u33	Mr President! First, a word of thanks to the government for this opportunity to vote a letter from the Finns abroad. This is really important and will improve the state of democracy for them. I would have joined those who represent duubies in this development of the online vote. I see the advantages — young people are used to doing things online, I'm sure they'd also like to vote more hard on the Internet — but then there are the dangers of breaking and entering data, digitalisation, a different kind of cyber effect via the Internet. In my opinion, there is a very precise place for consideration here, even in the light of recent experience, and perhaps one can ask the question that although digitalisation is very trendy, is there something that is not worth digitising and it may be that the voting system is that way?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u34	Congressman Sarkomaa.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u38	Perhaps that is still possible, but Mr Sarkomaa has the floor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u40	Mr President! This is where good questions have been put to the Minister, and I would like to emphasise them a little more precisely because we actually have 372,000 people with a default mark in this country, or 8.4% of the adult population, who are in this distress and need something to do with it. However, even at the moment, banks are not complying with the legislation and people are not getting the domain names on which to deal, and thus, in the case of default marking, this crisis only deepens for these people and they are excluded from society. So I repeat the questions about the possibility of a positive credit register and then this recovery order that should leave the capital. And I would also like to ask whether the government has discussed a legislative initiative in the field of rapid-vippies among the ministries, because it now had:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u41	Mr President! After all, we in this country are currently undergoing a very large-scale regional reform, in which the development of the state's regional government is essentially included and linked. Of course, all ministries should take account of this regional reform in their respective sectors and act in such a way that the powers and powers of the provinces are strengthened in the development of their regions. So, Minister, in the area of the Ministry of Justice, what is the impact of this regional reform now? In what way, overall, will it be taken into account in the activities and development and reform of the Ministry of Justice? Then, Mr President, I also share the views expressed by Mr Rantakangas and the serious concern about the permanent development of that Pelso, and I would also like to express my wish that the Minister should:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u42	Mr President! Here the committee has very strongly raised this new project in the Pelso prison, and we hope that it will indeed rise to a high level in future discussions. Another very important point is the fact that the budget of the prosecution is still falling. The experts we have heard in committee said that now is the time for the ministry to tell us which cases are not being dealt with, because it is no longer possible to deal with all the issues, the resources are no longer sufficient. Legal protection and legal protection will no longer exist. So I ask the Minister: when this turnaround should be done quickly, when will you bring a proposal for additional money to the prosecution so that it can do its own work?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u43	And now, Congressman Kanerva.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u44	All right, President, first of all, the expatriate issue: quick action, please. I assume that in the case of online voting, the best expert in the hall is the representative of the plant — I have heard his arguments here. And when my own view is that the enormous risks, the security risks, are included in this, I would ask the Minister, in his own administrative field, to show the responsibilities required of the Director in the administrative field. You have a good capacity for that. I know you as a good friend and I believe that you will be able to show leadership in it in order to ensure, for example, the secret of elections. Who at the moment guarantees that when voting at home on the Internet, there will be no overkill against another person and his electoral secrecy, not to mention these enormous risks that the world of hacking, the cyberworld, currently offers with the introduction of this online vote? That is why I hope,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u45	Mr President! As Mr Haavisto and Mr Kanerva have already said, there are significant security problems with the electronic vote and, in particular, the online vote. Concurrently safeguarding the credibility of the elections and the results of the elections is a very important technical challenge, virtually impossible without the techniques which voters find very difficult to understand, let alone trust. My question is: what is the big problem with the current electoral system, which must be corrected by means of an online vote at a price of EUR 12 million?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u46	Mr President! I'll take it from the same subject. Of course, an online vote in this digital world would be a very natural, up-to-date way of implementing direct democracy, but it really should not be naive right now. We must be aware of the risks, and there are indeed the risks of certain parties trying to manipulate the results of the elections by taking advantage of the known cyber methods. Let us imagine that a NATO referendum in Finland, for example, would take place online — a terrible situation. So now, good government, think very carefully about what you are doing about this very sensitive issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u47	Mr President! There has already been talk of the district court network in Northern Savo and Eastern Finland, in particular Iisalme and Varkaus. You, Minister, have been very patient in accepting all the information and, I might say, even a kind talk about these matters — for which you are acknowledged. I would like to stress that economic calculations must have quite a high priority in these matters. When it comes to efficiency and accessibility, it has to have a great deal of weight, even when cutting down the network leads, on the one hand, to reventives, to new construction, and, on the other hand, it also pays for the increase in their journeys and the length of their journeys. I appeal to you, Mr Minister, to take seriously the pressure that comes from Eastern Finland in general, that is a rational pressure, and you will see at the end of the motion that reason and responsibility prevail.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u48	Mr President! I thank the Minister for many good reforms. I personally draw attention to the pressures and duties of the Court of Justice. I myself have worked in the Court of Appeal and the District Court, and I would particularly like to thank you for having invested in, for example, the concentration of uncontested cases on certain district courts, so that judges have time to deal with the increasing and complex issues. Thank you also to our jury, who is able to do good work in the courts. In fact, I would have asked whether, in response to this problem of travel and concentration, more thought has been given, for example, to the introduction of videoconferencing from prisons — it would be a fairly safe and reliable environment — in order to solve transports. Then I would have asked you about that. Oh, by the way, I forgot what I had to ask my second question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u51	Mr President! I read the news that the State Civil Service Center is staying on Lake Lapinjärvi. This had been decided by the Minister. As the number of persons who have completed civil service has increased year by year, the need for space has also increased, and now new facilities are being renovated and, possibly, new facilities are being built for those who perform civilian service. However, the State would also be able to use the Hennala garrison, the former headquarters of Hämeen Rykment, that is left over from Senate properties as a new location for the Civil Service Centre. This would also have been in line with the State's own farm programme: according to the farm programme, the State first uses its own premises and only then becomes a tenant, Hyyrian, municipal and other premises. I ask the Minister: why did the minister not act according to the state's own farm programme?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u52	Mr President! I am taking part in this online voting debate. During the previous parliamentary term, I was the leader of the working group that investigated the parliamentary online vote, and at that time the working group concluded that there was no reason to take the online vote forward for a number of reasons. These are the reasons that have now emerged from this debate, and I believe that there has been no change in the circumstances. In this respect, we should keep ice in the hat. Technology has not developed, but cyber threats may have become more serious since its study. The most serious problem I still see as the problem at the moment, as is the case with that working group, is that in practice the state still does not have the means to identify citizens electronically, online, through its own actions, but that identification system is at the stage. The representative of the plant hit the nail position in his question, that what is wrong with the current system,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u53	Mr President! I would like to continue with what Mr Haavisto, Mr Kopra, Mr Kanerva, Mr Plant and Mr Stefan Wallin have said as an addendum. I myself am a child of the digital age, I am the youngest Member of Parliament in Helsinki and one of the youngest MPs in Parliament, and yet I see a lot of risks in the online vote. I'm sure external influence is one of the biggest reasons for my risk analysis. I have appreciated the Minister's action in many areas, and I too would call for leadership in this area in relation to the risks involved. Let us imagine a situation in which citizens would have questions about the outcome of the elections. This would undermine faith in democracy, in us decision-makers and in democracy in general. This is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u54	Mr President! Firstly, I would refer to what Mr Kari said. As a representative of Parliament in New Zealand, I would like to thank you for continuing the activities of the Civil Service Centre in Lapland. They've made good plans to keep it going. With regard to data protection, I would like to ask you when you have this Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman, which of course participates in the development of the information society and the maintenance of fundamental rights both in Finland and in the EU, and next year the EU General Data Protection Regulation will enter into force and the necessary measures will be taken by the Ministry of Justice and the Office of the Data Protection Ombudsman, and there will also be additional resources for this: there has been a great deal of concern in the Constitutional Committee, where I myself am involved, that many of the proposals coming from the EU Commission, such as the Eurodac proposal, will have serious data protection problems – so that the Data Protection Ombudsman has repeatedly raised – but there has not been sufficient scope for Finland and perhaps no smaller Member State to address these problems. Is the Minister aware of this,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u55	I will give the floor to the representatives of Kosonen and Zyskowicz, and then the Minister's reply, and we will continue the debate afterwards.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u56	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for the excellent decision of the prison in Sulkava, and secondly, I agree with Mrs Kääriäinen's speech on the scope of the District Court Network in Eastern Finland. I would have asked Minister Lindström about savings, because savings will certainly play a very important role here, when this network is being cut: even there in Savonlinna we have island conditions and long journeys everywhere, so how much savings will eventually be expected if we also take into account the travel times used by judges, travel costs and so on, the total cost of this particular concentration?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u57	Mr President! Today I am pleased to agree with Mrs Kari. Legal cases in Finland are delayed and it threatens people's legal protection. Representative I understand that Kari called for more resources for the judiciary. Of course, this could be done if resources were to be provided. Another way to approach the matter is to try to deal with the easiest and simplest cases outside the judiciary, so that courts can focus more on important issues. Among other things, there has been the issue of punishing ordinary drunk driving in the penal procedure. How's that going? Second thing: Today Hesari told us that, according to the Supreme Court, anonymous evidence is not justified, even though unscrupulous professional criminals are threatening revenge on the witness and his family. What does this anonymous argument, which was just laid down, mean in practice, if not in such a situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u58	Secretary Lindström, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u59	Mr President! Let us start with the Public Prosecutor’s Office — at least it became a question of Mr Laukkanen and others. Of course, the budget situation in the prosecution system is worrying; it is degressive. However, a slight increase in the number of prosecutors has been achieved since the difficult past year. Of course, the on-going IT reform will entail costs and efforts have been made to prepare for it through the accumulation of the appropriations to be transferred. Will the D.A. have time to deal with all the cases? After all, that line of business is becoming more and more demanding, and there has been an increase in the number of cases with international connections. We have a number of actions in progress in the Public Prosecutor's Office and in the Ministry, which are expected to have a facilitating effect on the work of prosecutors. The restructuring project has therefore been launched and these core activities will also be reformed and, of course, the training and specialisation of prosecutors will be developed. This project to reduce the number of judicial proceedings, which Mr Zyskowicz referred to in this last speech, and the reform of the fine procedure will contribute to releasing resources for the core work of prosecutors, i.e. pre-trial cooperation and prosecution. Of course, productivity gains are also expected from the information system project. More than that, less money tries to do things smarter so that resources stay where they are most needed. Pelso from prison: Yes, I know, the situation there is very worrying because it has been stalled and stalled for many years, and now this situation is in hand. The Criminal Sanctions Agency, together with Senate Properties, has launched the planning of replacement detention facilities on a timely basis, with the aim of acquiring temporary accommodation facilities at the beginning of next year. At the same time, the planning of this permanent solution will be launched and it will be necessary to assess the operational needs of Pelso Prison, not only in the prisons but also in accordance with the prison concept established at the Criminal Sanctions Institute. In other words, this matter has been considered with great care, and the big decision is indeed coming from what will be the future and what will be the permanent solution, and of course I myself am trying to influence the fact that we will find it during this parliamentary term so that we do not have to go any further than that. Representative Pakkanen raised these issues with the so-called error point systems in traffic. The Ministry of Transport and Communications is undergoing an overall reform of the Road Traffic Act and will also examine these penalties for traffic offences together with the Ministry of Justice — we work together. It has been suggested as an alternative to the fine currently being used to transfer to this kind of administrative payment. These preparations are now being weighed and collaborated under the leadership of the LVM. These error point systems are usually related to the penalties for driving rights, and the imposition of a driving ban on repeated offences has already been graduated according to the number of infringements, but this regulation falls within the remit of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. In other words, this will also be done in this cooperation. Representative Skinneri — and many others — is concerned that... Well, a lot of people are concerned about whether the Minister is up to it, and some are concerned about whether the OM is good enough for quality, skills and resources. On 21 September, we have set up a working group to reform the 2004 Government proposals guidelines, and these new guidelines are intended to help ensure that the laws continue to be well prepared and that the background to the preparation is brought to the attention of decision-makers and others. In other words, we have recognised that fewer resources must be able to do the same things as before and that the quality of legislation must remain and legal certainty must be maintained. This has always been the leading idea when we in the Ministry of Justice are preparing these measures. I do trust the people in the Justice Department, the officials who work there. There are professionals who do this job, and it's my job to line up. — I will answer other questions when the next opportunity comes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u60	Now, we will continue the debate for about half an hour, and the debate will continue — Mr Torniainen will reply next.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u61	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Lindström and the Government very much for the Government's statement that the current prison network will be maintained in Finland and will also be developed on the basis of the current situation, which has been going on for years. This is a very good thing. Another point I would like to draw attention to. When a number of speeches have already taken a position on this reform of the district court network, the question to the Minister is: will this geographical coverage also be taken into account, the whole of Finland? That's the important thing. Then there has been a debate on this possible online vote. I myself was also allowed to be in the working group that clarified the matter last season, and I personally find it a great concern that according to the information, there was no one in Finland who could have found the developer and implementer of the system who could have taken it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u62	Mr President! The number of sexual harassment reported to the police has clearly increased. The state budget proposal estimates this to be partly due to a change in the law that entered into force in 2014, which has allowed harassment to be investigated under its own criminal title. However, we in Finland too were able to experience a new phenomenon, sexual harassment, which came to us with asylum seekers last New Year's night. The investigation of those crimes was hampered by the fact that, although many victims did want the crime to be reported to the police, they felt embarrassed to go further. Putting sexual harassment under official prosecution would be the solution to the problem and would show that sexual harassment is reprehensible. I made a bill on this and I hope that all forms of sexual violence, including sexual harassment, will be taken seriously. Sexual harassment undermines the security of the weakest party, but also the sense of equality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u63	Mr President! Minister Lindström deserves to be commended for tackling the obstacles to employment associated with enforcement. Many long-term unemployment is also due to a serious problem of over-indebtedness, and unfortunately the trend is extremely poor. Last year nearly one in ten Finns was a customer of the enforcement and a new, gloomy record was made on the payment default labels. I would now like to ask the Minister for further information on the progress made in this package: at what level have we now discussed improving the labour market status of persons in enforcement or preventing over-indebtedness, such as a positive credit register which operates in many EU countries – and now I am pleased to see claims coming from both sides of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u64	Mr President! The Minister has already been asked several times about these Varkaus and Iisalmi under the threat of closure of the District Court of Eastern Finland. I would like to point out that, when there are long distances and these accused, witnesses and the whole orchestra have to be carried back and forth long distances, whether this overall economic vision has been taken into account in this activity, so that it is not only the cost that will increase through this concentration. And if you look at the buildings of Iisalme and Varkaus District Courts, they are specially made, they are modern, good courthouses. I believe that they should be used more effectively.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u65	Mr President! It is important for a Finnish person's life that when dealing with an official or court, he gets his sentence and decision as quickly as possible and that it is also valid. One of the biggest concerns for the development of Finnish society at the moment is the production of unnecessary complaints. There are half a dozen people in each municipality who, as other jobs, are doing this — there is nothing much more important to do — that is to say, there are administrative complaints in their factories, which then leads to a situation where, for example, huge planning projects are standing, construction projects are stopping, huge investments are waiting for, unemployment is increasing and nothing good is going to happen. How, Minister of Justice, have you, in your own valuable work, put yourself into this effort to get all this unnecessary bureaucracy out of the way?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u66	Mr. Speaker! Bringing referendums to the Internet is the future. This is precisely an increase in voting turnout, an increase in confidence in democracy. In Switzerland, this works. Switzerland is a model of democracy. I personally do not think Finland is so much worse that it could not work here too, apparently even in Estonia. It would also make it possible to increase referendums on issues of substance. Increasing decision-making on issues would certainly increase confidence in democracy, and if the introduction were made possible by the state, municipal referendums, for example, could be held and perhaps brought down their costs at the same time. However, I myself have little to conclude that the reason why these referendums are not being held today is that the decision-makers are afraid that the people will vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u67	Mr President! At the beginning of the debate, a few speeches were made on the grey economy — an important issue, and it is worth fighting against, as the Minister for Justice has done well. This issue was also addressed by the Section for Administration and Security, for example: As far as customs is concerned, it can be said that this year alone, Customs will bring back EUR 20 million in criminal benefits. As a small positive signal, we added EUR 300000 to Customs' activities. The question for the Minister is that when this grey economy affects the business of several ministers and the administrative services, where perhaps the most productive direction would be. Is it in the direction of the tax administration, Customs, the police, the courts, or what direction might perhaps have the greatest benefits if additional efforts were made?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u68	Mr President! There are a huge number of people in the bread queues depending on the aids in Finland. We know that the lack of visibility, unemployment, homelessness and, in particular, the failure to pay, which often triggers an entire wave of problems, are often the main causes of the difficulties. In this country, you can get a default mark very slipperyly, in the worst case scenario, so that the person himself has not even been aware of any problems. I would now like to ask the Minister: does the government have plans to take up these default labels, their backgrounds, and also to take up credit institutions, creditors, overly slippery activities, excessive reminders, handling and interest payments? Is the government supposed to intervene in the structures, companies and organisations that are arrogantly enriched by the problems and difficulties of others?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u69	Mr President! The Minister will probably know when the representatives of the High-Savo people approach, what is the problem, that is, what I am speaking about is the office of the District Court of Iisalmi. I do not have any answers from the Minister here, but when I know that there are many other people following this broadcast, that is why I too want to bring up these facts. The term of office of the preparatory project is until the end of 18, and it is still possible to influence it. Government parties and that working group have argued that district courts should be located in localities with population centres, and long distances should not hinder this. Well, for Iisalme, the fact that we have Sukeva Prison near us increases the frequency of services, and the distance to Kuopio is considerably increasing, up to a hundred miles. We are all of the opinion that savings must be made, but if it is said that no savings will be made,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u70	Mr President! The number of people in default is increasing and the number of people in enforcement is increasing. A large proportion of citizens who are in difficulties would like to have a debt arrangement, but there is a lot of congestion and even if there are conditions, it cannot be covered. The working group has been appointed to improve the status of citizens who have been seized, i.e. to improve the conditions for their debt and for their full participation in life and society, thanks to the Minister. As a result of the recession of the 1990s, we have people who have lost their property and almost everything, and their children continue to be in debt. Is there any reasonableness to be expected of them, for example with the creation of this working group? Together with Mr Louhelainen, we organised an event for people with debt problems at the Citizens' Info, and Mr Lindorffink’s representative came there — fortunately — and these difficulties.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u71	Mr President! Many speakers here today have praised the increasing resources and expansion of Victim Support Finland, and this may be very much the case — thank you very much. Domestic violence is a bigger problem in Finland than we still want to admit. Finland has been and is still far behind in terms of places of refuge required by the Istanbul Convention, for example. The positive thing now is that the national free-of-charge and 24-hour helpline required by the Istanbul agreement will finally be introduced next week. However, this alone is not enough, so I would like to ask the Minister what could be the next steps to prevent Finland from constantly cramming at the top of domestic violence statistics.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u72	Mr President! The answer to the question raised here is that when district courts are rearranged, what has been clarified in this connection: has the total cost of centralisation actually been determined for those people who now have to travel longer distances. I would like to know that it has actually been calculated, too, that it is not just what is known as an estimated virtual savings. In actual fact, I asked for a reply to this when we talk about this online vote. If I heard correctly, then EUR 12 million is being invested in it. If that is the case, I really appeal to the government to reconsider the matter, for the simple reason that we now have a pretty good example of the election in one country, the outcome of which is still being questioned in this respect. In other words, as long as the system is not impeccable, we should not go out and experiment. In Vihti we have organised one experiment under the municipal elections, and it did not work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u73	Mr President! The right to insurance deals with various matters related to income security, including the right of a person to work pension, national pension, unemployment benefit, housing allowance, student allowance, disability benefits paid by Kela and so on. At the oral hearing, the appellant is allowed to explain his/her situation and has the right to express his/her views on the doctor’s opinion. When you have a judicial development programme as a project, Minister, I would have asked: how is the project under this development programme going to assess the arrangements for the oral hearings of insurance law and the impact of the oral hearing on the legal protection of the appellant?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u74	Mr President! It is easy to agree with Mr Rantakangas and Mr Laukkanen and Mr Korhonen who spoke here earlier about this situation in the Pelso prison. We went there in the autumn under the chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr Tolvanen, and the situation is very worrying. Thank you for taking this issue into account, particularly the overall financial perspective, and for taking decisions quickly, as the Minister has just said. Together with representative Vähämäki, representative Sarkkinen, Vehkaperä and Tuppurainen, we submitted an amendment initiative to the Housing Company Act signed by more than one hundred colleagues, and that bill would enable decision-making in housing companies by a qualified majority of nine tenths. There is a record in the Government Programme that the decision-making process of the housing company will be smoother, and I would like to ask now:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u75	Mr President! This has also been mentioned in previous speeches about this situation in the Pelso prison, and that is what I would also like to highlight myself. After all, it has been a difficult situation there for many years, and now, because of these serious indoor air problems, the health situation of the staff and also of the prisoners must be taken into account. As far as the situation in Pelso prison is concerned, it must be borne in mind that a policy has been drawn up years ago that there should be a refurbishment of the premises and that the activities there should continue to continue. And now we expect a solution to this at the latest next spring, and we will get this renovation started, which we have long been waiting for. As far as Pelso is concerned, it is also important, as a prison in the north, a large area, that family members from long distances also meet prisoners and are not moved further away from that north.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u76	Mr President! The Ministry of Justice has set up a working group to explore the possibilities of enhancing the effectiveness of conditional imprisonment. The task of the working group is to assess various ways of enhancing conditional imprisonment through the development of a system of accompanying sanctions. At present, a conditional judgment is not regarded as a sufficiently effective sanction, but rather as a comment. The reason for this investigation is the public pressure to extort a conditional sentence. Already during the previous term of government, the Ministry of Justice’s working group proposed a tightening of sentences so that a short initial period of sentences would be spent in prison. However, there was no progress. One possibility would also be to combine penalties so that part of the sentence is unconditional and part conditional. From the point of view of citizens' sense of justice, it is important that the penalties are adequate and effective, so I ask the Minister: will the update of the legislation be brought to an end in this respect during this term of government?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u77	Mr President! The situation of the Istanbul agreement and the way in which it is being pushed forward in Finland has already been raised. I would like to encourage the Ministry to take further steps to help victims of intimate and domestic violence. Of course, good work has already been done, efforts have been made to improve the status of victims, and we have also received more money to strengthen first and second homes, but much remains to be done. I would like to ask the Minister: are there any new measures planned in the past on this subject?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u78	Mr President! I would also like to worry about this government's plan to reduce the number of district courts from 27 to 20. It does lead to an excessive journey for many citizens to the nearest district court. It will then lead to costs being borne by customers and the threshold for recourse to legal protection provided by the judiciary will increase further. Such a change will increase the regional inequalities of citizens and reduce access to justice-related services. However, jurisdiction in district courts is largely based on the personal presence of the parties concerned and, in terms of access to justice, the accessibility of the courts is of great importance. I understand the austerity pressures of the government, but I think that we are going beyond the pain limit to see how much of this district court network can be reduced. And I also hope, as others have done before, that these savings will be taken into account when calculating them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u79	Mr President! Mr Ojala-Niemelä raised this position in his first speech. The Sámi Chambers have appealed several times this season to the government to set up a reconciliation commission in Finland to go through our common history and to make clear what has actually happened in this country and what the Sámi people have been through. These reconciliation commissions have good experiences all over the world, and it would be great if the Finnish Government, in the centenary year of Finland, showed such unity of the people and handed this kind of reconciliation to our own minority and indigenous people. I would like to ask the Minister how the government has responded to this proposal and appeal from the Sámi Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u80	Mr President! During the autumn, the section has dealt with almost all of these issues here. With regard to the online vote, we did not write anything in the report because we said that there was a working group to think about it. My personal opinion does share this very strong uncertainty about this issue. I read that report on the experience of the municipal elections in 2008 and it did not encourage progress at least on that basis, which means that careful consideration is needed. Otherwise, the section was concerned — and probably also in the Committee on Legal Affairs — about the maintenance and strengthening of legal protection, and that is the most important issue. Secondly, I would like to highlight this position of over-indebted and incentivised unemployed people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u81	Värderade Talman! For many years, it has been evident from numerous studies that the treatment of victims of trafficking in human beings in Finland and the handling of such cases could be improved. Repeatedly, victims of trafficking in human beings have been sent back to Nigeria, Italy, and then there have been victims of trafficking in human beings. Finland is committed to acting differently in international agreements in these cases, but the practice has been very volatile. One way to improve the situation would be to change the foreign law on the residence permit of the victim of trafficking in human beings so that a vulnerable position as such would be sufficient to justify the granting of a permanent permit. How do you feel about this? Do you, Minister, regard this situation as problematic and as something that should be corrected just because of our international reputation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u82	Mr. Speaker! This reform of the district court network is fully justified, and it has been adequately investigated, and digitalization, using remote connections, will also reduce the number of customers running in court with certainty. We also have to lighten these processes, and Mrs Zyskowicz has already asked about this extension of the scope of the requirement. That is what the working group is now sitting on, and until a year and a half it will be tried to lift. But one thing that is less important, which I do not know is that there is a working group going on, is a matter of conciliation. Conciliation of criminal and civil matters is primarily human for the victim of crime, but also, of course, for the perpetrator of the crime. Above all, it's cheap. The U.S. Attorney recently suggested that almost all defamation cases, for example, could be settled in mediation. I would like to ask: would it be possible now to set up a working group that would, without prejudice, consider this extension of the conciliation procedure? That would be economic and human.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u83	Mr President! The premises constitute a lion's share of the total central government expenditure. In my previous speech, I referred to a strategy for managing and directing the costs of these premises in relation to the civilian service centre in Lapinjärvi. Last time I heard from the police today, I was worried that the police were constantly forced to operate in inappropriate facilities, just because the Senate, through its own rental logic, is holding onto these tenants. I would now like to ask the Minister: why did the Minister go against the farm strategy by introducing this extension of Lake Lapland instead of providing a civil service centre service in Lahti, Hennala, the garrison that has been abolished during the previous year?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u84	Mr. Speaker! I, too, would like to join in thanking Mr Lindström for the pragmatic and citizen-oriented approach you have in dealing with matters. Similarly, thanks apply to the Ministry of Justice, when, for example, our committee work calls for opinions, the opinions come, they are expert, and they also come quickly. It's very good to see. Keep up the good work. There are a few things I would like to raise: Thank you also for Sulkava's open prison, it was a rational decision. It is effective, it is inexpensive, it is a very right policy that it has been given further permission to operate and to develop its activities, it is very good. Then I also share this concern about the District Court Network in Eastern Finland. Of course, we understand that processes are being lightened and digitalisation is being introduced, but that network also has some significance for the fair handling of events.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u85	I will give the floor to the representatives of Myllykoski and Sarkomaa, then to the Minister, and then we will go to... Let's also take Mr. Niikko. These are the three replies, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u86	Mr President! There are 54 fast or small loan companies registered in Finland. I would like to ask the Minister for his opinion as to whether other lenders should be banned in Finland — when we then have foreign lenders online — in the very sense that criminal money laundering could thus be better curbed. I would also like to ask the Minister: when this positive credit register has often been brought up in this debate, could it be a first step, however, that legislation should define the maximum amount of recovery costs, for example, in relation to the amount of the loan? Then the lender has the risk that he has misquoted?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u87	Mr President! Even in a tight economic situation, it is very necessary to ensure the legal protection of people. Parliament and the Committee on Finance and our section, the Municipal and Health Section, have been concerned over many years about the scarce resources of the judiciary and have also demonstrated additional resources over many years. Special concern has been expressed about lower courts, especially district courts. At the moment, many courts are still congested, and indeed scarce resources have led to longer processing times. It is therefore absolutely essential that the measures of the Government Programme and the Justice Development Programme be taken forward. That is how we have firmly recorded this report by the Committee on Finance. In particular, the reform of the structures must indeed be pursued with determination and indeed ensure that the resources are sufficient to carry out the core tasks of the courts. That is what we heard from the Minister in the Chamber, but, if the Minister could tell us again, how these measures are going to proceed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u88	Mr President! Mrs Myllykoski, in her first speech, heard that I had mentioned that 80% of the adult population had failed to pay, but in my opinion, it was at least intended to say, of course, that 8%. You must have noticed, Minister, that during this hour and a half, the main issue and the main concern has been over-indebtedness and the increase in the number of default marking. In your closing speech, I would like you to spend more time answering it. Then one more question: The number of rape offences has increased, there were 1,052 in 2015, and at the same time there has been an increase of 20 per cent in the proportion of foreigners and foreigners, even nearly 27 per cent of rape offences are committed by foreigners or those they are suspected of. What can be done about this? This is a serious matter, because we have also received a great many asylum seekers. It would be reasonable for all to be able to integrate them into society in such a way that such a phenomenon would no longer be seen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u89	And Minister Lindström, five minutes, then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u90	Mr President! Thank you for a proper, good conversation. Yes, Mr Niikko, I thought that the majority of this time should be spent on this amount of over-indebted people, on the concern about this whole, which involves enforcement, which involves these quick levers and so on. In short, this household indebtedness rate has continued to increase, the number of people with defaults has continued to increase — according to Finnish customer information, at the end of September, there were 374,000 people in such a register — i.e. this is a big problem. I will not go further into that enforcement, but I will mention that when Mr Elomaa asked about this, that this working party must therefore assess all kinds of options and find solutions, which means that this mandate is truly comprehensive. So, what measures can the State now take to eliminate these default markings more quickly than is currently the case? This retention period for default marking in the credit repository has been shortened by the current Credit Information Act, in particular in cases where the subject of the default marking has not received any new default marking during this registration period. Of course, there are always these two aspects, i.e. the storage times of the default data stored here in the credit register have sought to take into account not only the legitimate interests of the data subject but also the needs of those who need credit information in their operations. But then, if we come to these quick levers and to this market, it was not very long ago that this matter came up again and I was asked for an opinion on this matter and then I told it. In other words, the Ministry of Justice is currently examining the effectiveness of the interest rate ceiling regulation, which came into force in 13. It takes into account, inter alia, the shift in supply to larger credit. And when I get a more detailed explanation of this status quo and all policy options, I will decide on legislative changes and other measures after that. That we find out — that is, first we investigate and then we lose. But yes, there is a clear place to do this. This is a big problem. I am not predicting what is coming out of it, but something will be done as long as we find out what the means are to intervene in this matter. This is a big problem. Maybe then another bigger thing like this. Mr Pelkonen and Mr Paloniemi raised the issue of this Istanbul agreement and, on the other hand, the issue of Victim Support has arisen here. These are good things, and the question is: what new measures? I have met with Monika-Women, among others, during this autumn, and I was quite surprised that we had such similar views on issues such as forced marriages and underage marriages. In other words, they have to be made concrete, and in fact these underage marriages would be really easy to fix by changing only the number. I've been agonizing with them myself. Fortunately, I have had very few of them on the table, but every time they come on the table, they are not easy. Even the pain of putting that line into it for 18 years would not have to reflect and grapple with one’s conscience. This is the kind of thing that needs to be developed. Well, then, this big question about the district court network. The chairman of the Legal Committee, Mr Tolvanen, said that once these have been decided together with the government parties, they have been tried to look as balancedly as ever possible. At the moment, therefore, I am in the working group whose task is then to prepare the legislation relating to this district court network. Of course it takes account of these possibilities for the video procedure and so on, the use of this technology. This use of ict in these matters will of course cost money, but it is the idea that when it pays, it will also bring something in the future. And such investments have also been welcomed by the Ministry of Finance. I can assure you that I understand this pain on the side of Iisalme, Varkaus, because I myself come from a city from which both the court and the administrative court were removed during the last parliamentary term and nothing helped. I can assure you that I know that this is not so easy. But this work is still going on, and of course we are thinking and hearing in a very constructive way these feedbacks from the representatives of the region,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u91	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u92	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! In the Debat, I have already been able to thank you for that reinforcement of support services for crime victims. So money is being allocated to Victim Support and support phone activities for victims of intimate partner violence. It is important that the trials are also conducted smoothly, so that they do not unnecessarily tear them open again slowly or perhaps never scarred wounds, especially in the case of sexual crimes and crimes against children. I would also like to thank you for the new construction of Hämeenlinna women's prison, which we discussed a moment ago. It will be completed in 2019, and this will get rid of the paljuceles. In addition, the renovation work of Kerava Prison and the new building in Jyväskylä, where the open prison and community sanctions office are located, can now be completed. I welcome the fact that, under the leadership of the Minister of Justice, Mr Lindström, a report was launched, in accordance with the Government Programme, on the fact that the penalties for crimes are fair in relation to the reprehensibility of the act. The Minister said a moment ago that this work of inquiry will be completed next summer, and hopefully more of these measures will follow. Some changes have already taken place and are reflected, for example, in certain sexual offences, in the hardening of their sentences. I am also concerned that we still have certain problems, for example, in keeping the criminal awaiting expulsion, and I myself am preparing a bill on this. The situation cannot be that a person who is considered to be a non-social person who cannot be there because the risk that he will repeat his crime is so great would be obliged, under today's law, to be released no later than one year after this detention or detention if his expulsion to the country of origin fails. My objective is that in the future we should change this so that people of this type can be kept in custody as long as necessary as their expulsion is successful, or another solution will be found that they will not go back to committing crimes in our everyday lives. Mr President! At the end of the day: There was also a wide-ranging debate about the online vote and the electronic vote, and these, in fact, were also mixed up in that debate. These experiments, which were carried out in Finland, were electronic voting, where we had to physically go to the polling station and vote, and there is, of course, an opportunity for online voting. And we are also preparing measures to enable this postal vote to be taken for those who live abroad. I am well aware that there are certain risks involved in the online vote. It has been described here that if the NATO referendum were, who would influence it and in what way. It is true that influence would certainly take place, but would it also be possible to influence this vote itself from the East or the West? Of course, we should be prepared for such things and try to prevent them. But it has to be said that when you were given a little impression here that someone was forcing you to vote in a certain way, you have to remember that online voting systems exist in the countries where it is used, a so-called penitentiary button. So if a wife’s husband forces you to vote for someone, you can cancel the vote when you go to the store and then transfer it to the person you want, that is, such a system exists. But we must, whether it is an electronic vote or an online vote, look for ways to improve voting turnout. And here, for example, the polling stations, the bringing of polling stations to where people are naturally present, become absolutely central. Perhaps a representative. Like me, I like to wear a dark suit and a white scarf and go to vote with dignity, but unfortunately today's kids don't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u94	Mr President! Unfortunately, I must say that all the official activities are in the midst of major upheavals and that there is a lot of good in it, but of course there is a lot of bad in it, and this judiciary cannot be outside it. After all, this Committee on Legal Affairs recently dealt with a large legislative package of courts and included this system of judicial training as an important issue. As I recall, ten years had been prepared and now it has finally been brought forward. It is a good reform, although some say that it should have been waited until the establishment of the Court of Justice. But we cannot do that now that we do not know the date on which the court office will come here to Finland. But there's a lot of good elements in it. Many other reform projects have been carried out in connection with the courts. It is, for example, that asylum matters will be divided into three other administrative courts in addition to the Helsinki Administrative Law. This should be the case if we are to get the cases before the courts as quickly as possible. In addition to the fact that there are projects, the district court would be the only court where these so-called daily cases would be dealt with so far that this complaint route would no longer exist. There is already a procedure for the extension of the authorisation procedure, but it needs to be extended further. There was indeed a talk about this network of courts that its number of offices is falling from 27 to 20, and this has been carefully examined. I understand this need in certain small areas, but I believe that digitalisation and remote connections will make it easier to deal with it. Above all, the internal functioning of the courts will become more effective, because we have small and vulnerable district courts, with only a few judges who may, of course, fall ill, or there will be a big case and we will have to ask for backup from elsewhere, and that is not really the present day. When you have a larger unit, it is less vulnerable, although there may be other problems and challenges. Indeed, it was said that the courts would only deal with the cases that belong there, and that is a good project. After all, there was talk in the government negotiations that the use of the penalty procedure would be extended to two years. It is too big a change when it comes to penalties, but for a year and a half what the working group is thinking about, I think it is quite enough, and when the usual drunken driving cases were called for, then they would all go there, and probably many other things. In my own head, I was thinking that maybe more than ten thousand cases would be left out of that district court. It should be that those cases are dealt with in the district courts that belong there, and others are dealt with in another procedure. But it must be ensured that even if these processes become lighter, the authorities to whom these cases fall then receive resources. Now it's 1.12. the introduction of a new so-called fine law which employs a considerable amount of the police. It certainly lightens processes with prosecutors and district courts, but it increases the workload for the police, and the police did not have the resources to do so. That's a bad thing. I have already highlighted the importance of this conciliation. I was at the first conciliation seminars in Finland in the mid-1990s — that is, 20 years ago — and I was very critical of this mediation. But I've had to change my opinion a little bit, or quite a lot, along the way. Reconciliation is a good thing. It is a good thing from a human point of view, and it is a good thing from an economic point of view. And now, as I hoped from the Minister, we need to be open-minded about which issues could be dealt with in conciliation. The insults could be one such group of things, and there are many others. That conciliation will either be carried out as a single action or at the same time. Since I myself have seen many victims of serious violent crimes, who have absolutely no fear of the offender, I would see that it is very important from a human standpoint that this offender and victim meet elsewhere in court and can discuss this matter and at best apologize to the victim. It will make it very easier for this victim and for fear in the future. That does not mean that the matter is not also being dealt with in court and the offender is being punished. But we need to think about this without prejudice, because I think this will get us another twenty thousand cases out of that district court and get those things that belong there. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u95	President! There have been very important issues here — the status of victims of crime, the district court network, prisons, over-indebtedness, the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights brought up the conciliation procedure, the question of the right to vote — but more than anything else in the debate brings up concerns about over-indebtedness, from many points of view, and if anything mirrors what society is now going to do. For this procedure of enforcement, I would like to point out that public authorities' claims in the enforcement procedure are at the root of the problem, on the back, whether they are those of the state or the municipalities. Private debts and claims will pass. Is this always reasonable and human sense of justice if, for example, careless quick - payments get ahead of alimony? This is something to think about. In my view, the role of the recovery of public claims should be improved and, equally, this issue was raised in this speech, that in this procedure of enforcement the capital will not be much reduced when interest and various expenses constitute a significant part of the payments, and then the capital would be reduced and could be recovered again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u96	Mr President! Congressmans! Good speeches have been made. This branch of the Ministry of Justice is probably close to my heart because of my profession, and here there are a number of subjects I could talk about, but I will raise a few points to the debate. In this case, the chairman of the Legal Committee spoke of courts, and when I myself have worked in the courts and in the authorities and in the insurance court, I have seen a close look at the fact that there are cases that do not belong there, on the one hand, the procedural provisions may not be best served by a quick procedure and, on the other hand, by legal protection. I welcome the fact that this whole package is now being reviewed and examined everywhere. The judges in the courts are doing a tremendous job, as are the prosecutors and the police. I am not saying that there are people in every workplace and organisation who do not necessarily do so well in their work. There will be a great deal of feedback, and one of the reasons why we should also take care of resources is that these people will be able to cope with the work that does not happen because, for example, people have too much work to do, that there will be no mistakes and, ultimately, even police charges. There was talk about training judges and the education system, and I think it is essential that judges in office should be given sufficient training, because it is precisely these international forum regulations and the various rules that cross-reference that are very complicated to interpret, and they have sometimes even become an indictment of the judge when he has not been able to properly interpret the matter, even though he has sincerely tried to do so. That is why it is important to have sufficient resources and knowledge and to invest in it, not just to criticise the person who is trying to do its job there. But with this I do not want to say that every professional group does not have enough room for those less brisk people, and that is why, for the sake of legal certainty, the possibilities of redress are well maintained. In addition, this was also a question of enforcement debtors and over-indebtedness. I myself have often wondered about this problem, and I understand very well that this should be the solution for those who do not have access to the debt arrangement. There should be a solution that you do not have to pay these debts all your life — it does not motivate anyone to go to work if you only pay those debts forever. One thing, of course, is that the running of interest rates could be stopped as in the debt arrangement, there would now be one option. But I also understand, of course, that there is also the protection of the creditor, especially in the case of a private person who is waiting for his money — it is not that simple, it is a problem. Then it is also good to remember that, unfortunately, some young people have also come to these large damages because of crimes. What, then, would be the good, reasonable solution to the fact that there would then be a reasonable payment and compensation for the damage caused by the crime so that it would not then be completely uncompensated? Difficult questions in that sense. The reform of insurance law is also good. I myself would like to make one point about this whole system of insurance rights and complaints, which, for example, provides a lot of feedback on accidents at work and their substitutability, precisely because the person himself has many medical reports from specialist doctors and yet, in this system of insurance rights, they are knocked out either by Kela’s doctor — one doctor — or by the insurance court. I myself, as rapporteur for insurance law, when I had once been in the past and when I dealt with accident insurance, found it very difficult for me to understand when I felt, on the basis of medical advice, that the degree of disadvantage was someone and that it was because of the accident, and then, according to the opinion of the insurance court doctor, the composition went away. There was then a situation where the doctor of the insurance court felt that this was due to ageing and degeneration and that it could not be considered that the prolonged illness was the result of this accident. Many times then I thought that it should be almost zero years old, it would be such a complete body that it could be considered entirely as a result of the accident. I'm glad they're taking this forward. And I would say that it is good to think about the fact that these uncontroversial matters would indeed remain out of court there. After all, at some point there are plans to transfer uncontested divorces to the local register offices, and I think that would be the right place to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u97	Mr President! The Ministry of Justice estimates that the economic situation of the administrative sector will be relatively good next year. It is good to look at what this idea is based on. This idea mainly arises from the fact that there is a reasonable amount of appropriations to be transferred which will temporarily improve this situation. In its opinion, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights draws attention to the fact that, given the momentary nature of this situation, it is already necessary to prepare for the situation in a very structured and long-term way that these funds will continue to be sufficient in the future. The functioning of the judiciary is one of the key issues in society in terms of legal protection and legal protection. In Finland this level has been considered high, and also in international comparisons it is considered high. As early as next year and in the following years, the budget of the prosecution system will fall, and this will certainly be one of the major pain points for us. The Committee on Legal Affairs therefore stresses that the importance of adequate funding for the entire administrative chain is essential, from the police to the prosecution and then to the courts, to this whole so-called trilogue. Finally, Mr President, I would like to focus on the fact that there is an increase in and a real rapid increase in payment disruptions, and it is also to be assumed that the government's action, particularly in terms of cuts in unemployment security, will lead to an increase in these payments disruptions. This means that there will also be a significant increase in the amount of enforcement over the next two years. So these enforcement resources, which are now being added only to these so-called 'information management measures', are not enough; there is also a clear need for staff increases. While there are many MPs here in Parliament who have gone through the debt arrangement for over-indebtedness or for some other reason, it would be clever of the Ministry of Justice that — now that such people are here, including themselves, who have gone through the debt arrangement as a family — such people would be involved in this reform of the debt restructuring law: to take these traps into account, the protective portions — both the protective portion of the enforcement and the protective portion of the debt arrangement, and then, as it were, the share of this possible work — to increase, to this whole package of discussions, from here along with a few representatives with practical experience of these. Perhaps even those representatives who have then been involved in this enforcement in their civil work should be involved in that working group, at least in some way, bringing vision. I very much welcome the fact that Pelso Prison is now prominently displayed here. It's a progressive prison, and keeping it is, yes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u98	Mr President! It is good to continue with this speech by Mr Laukkanen. I, too, would raise these matters of the enforcement debtor. During the last parliamentary term, we corrected these fast-track legislation, but it seems that these companies are always one step ahead and the legislation is dragging on. In other words, measures would be needed to improve this regulation. One small detail is this enforcement of tax refunds. That seems to me to be unfair at the moment. As a general rule, around one third of the wages and salaries income may be seized, while the rest remain with the debtor, but the tax refund consisting of wages withheld at too high a withholding rate may be fully forfeited. These tax refunds will create a gap in the economy of many families just before Christmas, and I would like to see a return to the enforcement debtor otherwise bring little economic relief to everyday life. In the case of enforcement debtors, these tax refunds return with great certainty to run the wheels of the national economy, because money comes in need and often goes to satisfy essential needs such as food, housing and transport costs. The second point is that this section of protection is nationally equal everywhere, and it is clear, of course, that here in the south and in the capital region the cost of living is higher than in that province. I think that we should consider a certain degree of differentiation here too. These were just such surface scratches for this problem. But I am in favour of this Laukkanen proposal, of the idea that even a larger set of cases of enforcement and debtors' problems should be dealt with.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u99	Mr President! Although the Ministry of Justice's section is a small section in financial terms, approximately EUR 900 million, it is extremely important for the citizens, and the affairs of this administrative sector must work well everywhere in Finland in order for people to have a good life. In recent years, we have a very harmful phenomenon that has spread to Finland, making pointless complaints, with which certain types of bullies deliberately hinder social development and then boast afterwards that I was able to stop that project for years. People will be left without work, social services will not develop, new jobs will not be created, and many more damage will be done. All of this we have had to follow in all the municipalities of Finland, and in rural municipalities in particular, the progress of various projects, such as projects to improve employment, has in many cases been held back in the knowledge that jobs would not be created in rural municipalities, and this has resulted in very terrible stories for people's lives. As regards the section of the Ministry of Justice, it is important that the courts act in a firm and swift manner, and above all that Finnish legislation is being developed in the general direction that this unnecessary complaint can simply be prevented. According to the Government Programme, we have one of the most important objectives of the Government, and that has already been quite a long way to go. Many, many unnecessary bureaucratic rules have been dismantled on the agricultural side, resulting from the EU. Then there are these complaints on the side of the Land Use and Construction Act, which are going to be a huge amount of administrative rights for nothing. Let me give you one example, Mr President, from Ilomants: when the Vapo power plant and the pellet plant were designed, a person who considered it an honour to interfere with this development made a complaint about it before the Vaasa Administrative Court. The ground of appeal was that, since the factory deals with cane aid and is allegedly transformable by some chemical processes into a drug, the person concerned did not approve of the construction of a drug factory in the municipality. I read these papers and I was wondering that this couldn't be true, this must be some kind of joke. It was absolutely true. The project was delayed for about two years and cost Vapo Oy approximately one million euros and lost more than one million euros as a value of production. So, in total, this damage to this society cost about EUR 2 million, and it was a pure nuisance. There must be a possibility of complaint in a democratic society, of course, but such flexible complaints must be prevented. The appellants must be provided for this unnecessary treatment of the fee they have to pay, and it is precisely administrative rights that must be developed in the direction of creating such a pre-trial organisation, which notes unnecessary complaints away, and those vain things will be dealt with in three days away and then those who genuinely have a cause will get better treatment. But, of course, complaints must be dealt with, that is clear, and it is one of the principles of the rule of law that it is also possible to bring matters under review by appeal. In any case, such things as I have just mentioned should not be. The courts are working well for us, but we have to get rid of this unnecessary complaint once and for all. Legislation needs to be developed and unnecessary complaints blocked, and above all the right of appeal by the authorities. We have the ridiculous fact that the environmental side has been exposed to such a phenomenon where the authorities complain about each other's decisions, and then the administrative rights wonder what this is. Secondly, Mr President, on this electronic vote: There is a strong public debate about how the US presidential election went, whether something was hacked or influenced. Should this not be a strong enough warning that when the expression of democracy is voting, getting to vote, going to the ballot box there to write the number of the person you support and drop that flag in the urn, after which, if this right to vote has been used legally, the voters have made their own decision independently and independently, so if you go to these online votes somewhere other than that polling station, it will easily cause a person to be severely influenced or a candidate of their choice not to be elected but to be tampered with at some point? There are harsh examples of this around the world. I am firmly in favour of voting for democracy, going to the ballot box and making that decision alone in the voting booth and then the ballot box. I do not think that the option is reasonable to go ahead with the development of an electronic system. Information technology is an extremely good thing, but it has a huge responsibility, and I do not think it is appropriate for this voting process, and I do not think it is the way.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u100	The general debate will be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u101	The general debate on section 25 of the Ministry of Justice, which has been suspended today, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u102	Mr President! In my presentation of the section of the Ministry of Justice and in Mr Lindström's speech, an accurate representative could see the small difference between the expenditure of 916 million and the reduction of 15 million. The correct figures are 917 and 15 because the committee and section added EUR 0.5 million to the needs of the Legal Register Centre. I didn't see this coming in the calculation. Mr. Speaker! The issue of legal certainty is extremely important, and that is something the section was concerned about, and certainly also in the Committee on Legal Affairs, in particular. We now have a situation where there is a need for permanent funding for the courts, for the whole court system, so that legal security is guaranteed in a permanent way in the actual budget and not with any Christmas gift money, as has now been the case. This time, however, we did not put any extra money on this — we put that extra money in the Register Centre over there. The quality and speed of the work of the courts are fundamental issues in terms of legal security and must be given serious attention. Then there has been a debate, as in many years, on the issue of the shadow economy and financial crime, and this whole chain is very important, for the police to have sufficient funds for a preliminary investigation, for the prosecutor to have sufficient resources, for the courts to have sufficient resources, and then for the enforcement to have sufficient resources — that is, for the whole pipeline to be even. There is now a risk that the preliminary investigation and, above all, the prosecutors will:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u103	Mr President! Significant changes have taken place in the indebtedness of households and consumers in recent decades. As part of this pan-European phenomenon, the debt levels of Finns have also increased. Statistics Finland's statistics describing the degree of indebtedness show that indebtedness in Finland has almost doubled in the 2000s. At the same time, the number of enforcement debtors has also increased. At the moment, more than half a million Finns are in enforcement. The majority of those in enforcement are individual citizens. Greater efforts should be made to deal with debt problems so that the cycle of debt does not become, for example, a generation of over-generations or a barrier to employment. I therefore very much welcome the fact that the government is investigating how to dismantle these employment incentives in connection with enforcement and to facilitate the position of low-income, over-indebted persons. Mr President! In its report, the Committee on Finance stated that the enforcement body must take account of the tightening situation in the spending limits period and that restructuring is progressing on schedule. The project to restructure enforcement measures aims to improve productivity and economy in enforcement, without jeopardising the legal certainty of the parties concerned. Mr President! The effectiveness of the enforcement system and the related challenges, even the problems, will receive a lot of feedback from citizens. It is therefore very good that the government is taking forward this restructuring of the enforcement operation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u104	Mr President! In matters relating to legal protection and family reunification of asylum seekers, administrative courts and legal aid propose EUR 19 million, with the aim of achieving an average length of time for asylum cases in administrative courts of less than 6 months and a maximum of 10 months in administrative courts of the highest level. Of course, these monthly figures indicate that, in any case, things can take more than a year. Mr President! As a political idea, therefore, this right of appeal in these foreign affairs to the Supreme Administrative Court should be removed. This could work perfectly well within the framework of our current constitution and our international treaties. As this budget shows, savings could be made in this way up to millions, as one phase disappears and at the same time processing times are reduced. However, the reality is that all asylum seekers, who then receive a stunning decision in the administrative court, are, of course, going all the way to the end, in a way, even because of the fight for delay. This could indeed shorten these times and then save money and, in my view, achieve a more sensible judicial policy and then a more sensible asylum policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u105	Mr President! Mr Elo's speech was very supportive. Any means of saving at the expense of the asylum crisis is very welcome. There is also an eternity debate on the legal system that revolves around the citizens' sense of justice being tested by the reduction in the amount of prison sentences, first-time sentences, paroles. It seems that crimes do not receive the kind of punishment they should receive, and this cannot be right. I would therefore like to see a change in the thinking model so that penalties are not considered first and foremost, but rather an active consideration of ways of reducing the cost of prison care per person, so that the penalties will last longer with less money.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u106	Mr. Speaker! When this government started and Jari Lindström got a double briefcase, he wondered how he could cope with these demanding tasks, especially those of the Ministry of Justice, but I have to say that Minister Lindström has made an excellent contribution. A list of measures to reform the entire administrative branch of the Ministry of Justice and to develop activities extensively was already included in the Government Programme. It should then be noted that on 17 August this year, Minister Lindström's programme for the development of justice was adopted and is being implemented. These measures under the Government Programme and this programme by Lindström are very important to implement across the board in the area of judicial administration, because they can solve an enormous number of these problems which we have in this sector. It is precisely this issue of legal security, the swift handling of cases, the great economic values that have been found in these matters, the relationship between the debtor and the creditor, and the issue of the trap of incentives, such as enforcement, that are matters that concern ordinary people and the nation as a whole. They need rapid action. Mr Lindström has taken them so strongly into the programme that we must thank him very much for this. We will certainly not get more resources in the coming years as much as is needed, so that these structural benefits, including those of 3+ digitalisation, will become particularly important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u107	Mr President! The right to insurance deals with various matters related to income security, including the right of a person to work pension, national pension, unemployment benefit, housing allowance, student allowance, disability benefits paid by Kela and so on. Mr President! I have received several communications from people whom the insurance company considers to be capable of working against their own view. As part of the justice development programme, a study is now being carried out on the practices of insurance law, which seeks, inter alia, the organisation of the oral hearings of insurance law and the effects of the oral hearing on the legal protection of the appellant. It is also intended to examine practices in requesting medical advice and the impact of these opinions on the legal protection of the applicant for change. At this hearing, the appellant will be able to explain his/her own situation and have the right to express his/her views on the expert opinion. Minister Lindström replied to me today that the project concerning the organisation of the oral hearings of insurance law and the impact of the oral hearing on the legal security of the applicant relates to the judicial development programme and is in the process. That is good because so many Finns are affected by this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u108	Section 26 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior is now presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u109	Mr President! In its report, the committee first deals with the operational costs of police action, which amount to almost EUR 700 million. The Committee welcomes the fact that the government added EUR 8.5 million to its draft budget. According to a report received by the committee, the increase will allow the number of policemen to remain almost at the level of the current year, and in practice all police officers will be employed. The committee considers it essential to ensure the availability of new police officers in the coming years. In order to ensure this, the proposal includes an additional allocation To increase the number of students admitted to the Police College of Applied Sciences to 400 students. The increase will allow the minimum number of 7000 policemen under the Internal Security Report to be maintained. The committee refers to its opinion on the Internal Security Report and remains concerned that the number of policemen in the EU is already the lowest in terms of population. In addition, the budget framework for the police will be strongly decreasing from 2018. The Committee therefore considers it important for the government to review the resources of the police and other internal security actors in the spring when preparing the budgetary frameworks. The committee also considers it necessary to develop a supplementary police system, especially as there is full employment in the police sector. It is also important to clarify the operating costs. The committee attaches particular importance to improving the efficiency of online police activities. In addition to intervention by violent extremists, online police should also promote the safe use of the Internet for children. The committee will add EUR 500000 to the police in the fight against cybercrime. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: In its report, the committee also deals with the fight against the shadow economy and increasing cybercrime and considers it necessary to increase the spending of the protection police. An appropriation of approximately EUR 230 million is proposed for the Border Guard. With the draft budget, the Border Guard will continue to have to prioritise its tasks. The need for adaptation is estimated to amount to EUR 15 million during the spending limits period. In the Internal Security Report, the Government outlines the basic control of the eastern border, the safety of cross-border traffic and the management of maritime rescue. In addition, the obligations of military defence are fully met. In line with the Government's policy, an increase of 160 border guards will be assigned to control the eastern border. Of this, 80 border guards can be covered — with the intervention of the Border Guard, these 80 will be added. In order to achieve this objective, the committee considers it necessary for the government to allocate a permanent appropriation to the recruitment of 80 new border guards. The committee will add EUR 550000 to the Border Guard. The operational expenditure of the Emergency Response Centre is set at approximately EUR 50 million. According to a report received by the committee, the number of staff can be kept at the level of the current year, in 600 person-years. The committee stresses the need to take account of its role as a crisis organisation in the planning of emergency centre resources. The committee will add EUR 200000 to the Emergency Response Centre. Mr President! Finally, the expenditure of the Finnish Immigration Service and reception centres will be significantly reduced compared to the current year, as the number of applicants has stabilised to around 60 to 100 per week. In the draft budget, 10,000 applicants have been used to estimate expenditure. The committee considers it necessary to further speed up the processing of asylum applications. In addition to the smooth functioning of the proceedings, it is essential to ensure that decisions are taken: Mr President! Finally, the Committee welcomes the fact that the Finnish Immigration Service has drawn up a national control programme for the reception system and has improved the financial management of reception centres. The Committee draws attention to the fact that, in order to minimise costs, the aim must be to achieve the widest possible degree of competitive tendering for the services to be purchased.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u110	Mr President! A total budget of around EUR 1.52 billion is proposed for the administrative sector of the Ministry of the Interior next year. In the corresponding situation one year ago, the total for the section was EUR 1.71 billion. In addition, additional appropriations have been made available on several occasions for the 2016 budget, in particular for the reception of asylum seekers. The number of asylum seekers has since stabilised, but there is a strong change in the operating environment in which internal and external security are strongly intertwined. At the same time, internal security resources are shrinking in the long term. This development is in conflict with the increasing and more complex tasks of the authorities and changes in the operating environment. Before I go through a few pick-ups on the budget from my point of view, I should like to thank the committee for the points it has raised and for the additional targeting of measures relevant to internal security: The committee has added EUR 500000 to the police's operational expenditure in the fight against cybercrime. EUR 245000 for the prevention of sexual exploitation of children on the Internet and EUR 255000 for the prevention and detection of online bullying and scams. The Committee on Finance continues to view the situation of the Border Guard as worrying due to the changing operating environment. The committee will therefore add EUR 550000 to the operational expenditure of the Border Guard. As a third addition, the Committee on Finance has added EUR 200,000 to the operating expenditure of the Emergency Response Centre Authority and stressed the importance of the Emergency Response Centre activities in the assistance chain. The committee notes in its report that the shrinking resources of the Emergency Response Centre will pose challenges for undisturbed emergency centre operations. Yes, Mr Niikko, the President-in-Office, has just pointed out that a little more is now being made available to the police, and indeed a total of EUR 697 million is being proposed. In accordance with last spring's spending limits decision, an additional allocation of EUR 5 million will be allocated to the police for 2017, and the appropriation will increase to EUR 10 million from 2018. EUR 27.4 million is also proposed for the activities of the protection police in order to secure the resources of the protection police. Last spring's spending limits decision will include a level increase of EUR 2 million from next year. Particular attention will also be paid to the prevention and investigation of violent extremism, the illegal activity of extremism and hate speech, and the strengthening of the fight against terrorism. After all, the budget includes an additional EUR 10 million for the police and the protection police, and with this additional money the police are introducing new approaches to the prevention and investigation of hate speech. The aim is to improve police performance, strengthen online police activities, ensure and strengthen enforcement of the assembly law, investigation and monitoring of violent extremism, and national and international cooperation in combating extremism. This additional allocation, just as Mr Niikko said, will also guarantee the continuation of 200 temporary police work for next year. And while the number of students admitted to the Police College of Applied Sciences can now be raised, we will also safeguard that future from a quantitative point of view. For the operational expenditure of the Finnish Immigration Service and the state reception centres, Mr President, EUR 60.7 million is proposed and the storage capacity of the Swano reception centre is increased. This is because of our situation, which has been the case here. Fortunately, the number of asylum seekers has stabilised from the peak figures in 2015, and that is why these are the falling amounts, well done. Finally, Mr President, EUR 231 million will be proposed for the next year of the Border Guard's operational expenditure. The situation in Russia and the Baltic Sea region is most important to the activities of the Border Guard. The aim is to strengthen internal and external security at the eastern border. The Border Guard shall establish, inter alia, the rapid reaction reserve required by the EU Border and Coast Guard System. A total of EUR 73,2 million is proposed for emergency services and emergency centre operations in the 2017 budget. This includes an additional EUR 2 million level increase from the Spring Framework Decision to safeguard the operation of the Emergency Response Centre Facility and to ensure the introduction of the new Emergency Response Centre Information System. Finally, President, in the context of the Spring Framework Decision, it is necessary to review once again the level of resources of the police and other internal security actors. In order to make it possible to implement the guidelines of the Government's Internal Security Report, the budgetary plan to be prepared next spring should make the actual correction movements from 2018 onwards. We will do relatively well in 2017, thanks for that, with these additions, but we will need a framework correction there then, and that is why we are already talking about this. — But thank you once again to the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u111	Let us allow a small debate on this when the Minister spoke.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u112	Mr President! It is good that the police budget is now slightly increased and that amount can be kept unchanged. Border control must also be stepped up and delays in emergency centres monitored. They came up at our section hearing. During that previous Question Time, there was talk of Aleppo and Syria, and it has been horrifying to see how Syrian dictator Russia is also bombarding civilians. The Daesh, Isis fighters who have left here will probably return to Finland, and I would like to ask you, Minister: Is the situation under control for these returning terrorists? Do you have the means or the resources and the powers of our authorities to monitor the situation and intervene in these returning terrorists?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u113	Mr President! I thank the Minister and the committee for their good work. I myself receive a great deal of mail on income support for illegal residents, and Minister Risikko said some time ago that this is about to become a guideline at some point in cooperation with the STM. I would have asked: How is this going? I myself am a Kela Councillor, and today we went through the Kela Council meeting yesterday about the transfer of income support from the beginning of next year to Kela. It was felt that this would be part of the basic income, albeit with some reservations, so it would be up to them to decide. Yes, I had the feeling that there might not be an answer for the officers if someone came to ask how they were doing. It's not many weeks before they're supposed to start making decisions. Is this instruction coming?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u114	Mr President! It was a minimum that the government corrected the situation that was coming, i.e. the situation where 200 policemen and women would have been temporarily laid off. I'm glad we got a correction and an addition. This was also expressed by the Socialist Group in Parliament. However, in this statement by the president of the Section for Administration and Security, it became clear that the government was increasing resources for internal security operators. I appreciate the fact that the Minister was more realistic in his speech and explained this situation, where in practice the budget goes down at the same time as the appropriations for the security increase should go in the other direction, that is to say up, because the security situation around us and also within the country has gone in a worse direction. I ask the Minister: are you going to concreteise by the government this level of 7200 policemen and women that you have set now? This level was presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in spring discussions
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u115	Mr President! The Finnish security environment has changed substantially in recent years. We have had the asylum crisis, online crime in its various forms, extremism, aggressive abuse and slander of people. In the face of a new one, it is a very good thing that the government was able to complete the budget in such a way as to keep all the police officers in the villages and on the streets. I would like to thank the Minister and the entire government for that. We certainly need more resources, and that is what we need to work on during the spending limits period. However, President-in-Office, when we are currently debating an internal security report in Parliament, which now describes the current situation of the security authorities, then the Government's internal security strategy, which is intended to provide a very concrete means of how our internal security authorities will be organised in this change, I would like to ask the Minister: you are a powerful social worker. Will you also become a powerful situ influencer and do this reform?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u116	Mr. Speaker! There is a very exceptional and progressive overall concept of safety in Finland, and for its part, Minister of the Interior Risikko is very much responsible for it. In this committee's report and division work, we take into account the police, the Border Guard, Customs, the Emergency Centre and so on, they are doing valuable work, and that whole thing is absolutely essential. Now such a phenomenon is emerging that the overall reform of the alcohol law is progressing and we know that about 70% of police alarms are linked to alcohol consumption. How does the Minister assess the overall reform of the alcohol law to affect the need for police officers if the law proceeds as it currently stands in the round?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u117	Mr President! It is, of course, a good thing that the government was able to increase the budget for the police, but this increase, which has now been made, is to extend the current fixed-term stability by one year. It would actually be an important message to these policemen to get a more permanent job. The government is making immigration policy at the very heart of international law. For example, family reunification has been made more difficult for vulnerable women and children to get here for safety. Surely everyone is concerned about their loved ones, who are in difficult circumstances. Secondly, the lists of safe countries that have been drawn up by the government are calling into question people's right of access to safety, and it has now been seen that there have been excesses, for example, with regard to Iraq. Is the government going to update or review these or even disable these safe country listings?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u118	Mr President! Indeed, the reform of the alcohol legislation that has been submitted to the consultation and the draft text in practice, according to the police's assessment, and even the draft law - you, the government, your own estimates - mean an annual increase of around EUR 10 to 15 million in the amount of the police budget, which means a need for an increase of between 200 and 300 police staff per year. Have you considered this at all? I must say that if we compare the number of policemen in the last parliamentary term, for example, the number of policemen is already in practice, that level, decreased and the goal has been set even lower than it is today, that is to say 7,000 policemen on the surface. How are these amounts going to cope with the challenges ahead?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u119	Replying to the representatives of Korhonen, Löfström and then Niikko, and then I will give the Minister a first intervention.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u120	Mr President! The Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior have been subjected, as it were in recent years, to a particularly great deal of wallpaper, for two reasons, firstly because of the drastic environmental changes taking place here on the internal security side, but also because these internal security actors have been caught up in this harsh economic adjustment programme in a number of ways. It was decided to increase the resources for border control by EUR 550,000 in committee. This increase was first and foremost triggered by the fact that the committee wanted to preserve the coast guard stations of Kalajoki and Kemi, for many reasons: in Kalajoki Fennovoima's proximity, Kemi becomes and is a strong centre of industrial policy, a centre of economic activity. Either you in the Ministry and the Minister have thought about the way this increase is now being targeted at the coast guard stations of Kalajoki and Kemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u121	Värderade Herr Talman! Båtskatten går i morgon på remissrunda och med den kommer det ny byråkrati. Till media har tjänstemän sagt att bland you give sjöbevakningen kommer att få ansvar för att se till att den raus Skatten är betald.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u122	Mr President! The appreciation of the police is very high in Finland, and I am pleased that we have the Ministry of the Interior, which considers it important to maintain police resources at the current level. And, as the Minister's speech indicated, he will also have this debate in connection with the spending limits decision, that this money will be enough in 2018. Unlike the opposition here today, this question of the number of police officers is now being criticised by the opposition, it is no longer up to the minister, but it is up to us to get those police officers to come to this work. All the cops are currently employed, and more work could be done if there were people to come. Then I would have said to Mr Kari that EUR 2 million will be added to the protection police and the need for the protection police has been taken into account. In that sense, we attach great importance to the timely response to cybercrime, as well as to terrorist crime, and to all those who are dangerous here, to follow up in some way and try to get out of the country, so the government is doing a good job of keeping Finland calm and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u123	Mr Niikko opened the reply to Mr Kari. — Before the Minister, Mr Kari.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u124	Thank you, Mr President. The opposition has criticised the fact that we are going in the wrong direction. The security situation, both in Finland and in neighbouring areas and in the wider world, has gone in a bad direction. It has become, as it were, a security threat for all of us citizens. At the same time, the budget is moving in a different direction, the budget is moving in a smaller direction. Since 2011, I have been a member of the Administrative Committee, a committee with all the key actors in internal security — police, Customs, Border Guard, Häke and so on. At that time, from 2010 to 2011, the Parliament set the target of 7850 policemen and women. If the government hadn't located its own motion, the level would have gone to 6,500. So this slide needs to be stopped now. That is why I also need this realism in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u125	Secretary Risikko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u126	Mr President! I'll answer it a little like in the order of the questions. In other words, foreign fighters were asked, and indeed, foreign fighters have left Finland, some of whom have returned, some of whom have not — there are also women. That is why it is important that we now have the aid to follow certain people, but then it is also important that we take some kind of catch into this system of ours as well. This is the kind of Reach Out that we have started, which is trying to get them on the right track — when it may leave them on the right track. That is the system we want to have them in, and this is, of course, a great job for us to find them and for them to be willing. As far as the number of illegal people in the country is concerned, we now want no such quantities. An illegal person is illegally present in the country and we do not want an illegal presence here. And that is simply a good thing for this individual, because here, when there are no papers, if you are illegally in the country, you may be caught in a criminal spiral, may be exploited by criminals, and that is not good for anyone. That is why we assume that, as soon as possible, if a final decision comes from the absence of asylum, then it is precisely such return systems that must be included — first and foremost, of course, voluntarily, but we also have forced returns. And then how such constitutional emergency aid will be given. That is what we have been discussing right now in the government, the ministerial group has met, and there will be instructions for the municipalities shortly. The basic situation is that the emergency aid will be provided there in the municipality and that the municipality will have to be fully compensated for it. And then there is this, too, that I do not think that Kela should be confused with this, it is my opinion that Kela is not part of this, but that its emergency aid must leave the municipality. And I do not think that income support should be paid to people who are illegally in the country, that is to say, emergency aid only. Then we talked about the number of policemen. Indeed, if these 200 people, these fixed-term ones, had not been kept here, we would have really fallen far too low. Now we are able to keep practically all men and women at work, because we have about seven unemployed people, which means that we do not have them in the reserve, and that is a good thing now. It has been said in its time that 7,000 would be such a minimum, but I would say that if this money had not come, we would not have been able to keep it either, and that is why we need that spending limits correction. There's been a lot of questions about what alcohol law brings. That brings us to the need to increase the number of police officers, because we need them there for domestic violence and the rest of the criminal community.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u127	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u134	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u135	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u159	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u168	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u169	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u175	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u181	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u182	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! There was some talk of the effects of alcohol law on police duties. I did not take part in the debate, and all I can say is that we also have examples of increased police work being carried out by stricter regulation. We have had certain summer events that have been operating through the picnic system for a long time, and when there is a ban on drinking their own alcoholic beverages, for example, when listening to music, people have come to the area in a much harder drunk manner and have caused additional work for the police. In other words, more stringent regulation is not only the way in which these problems are addressed, but in some cases it can also be a good way to try out a more central European way in alcohol policy. In the Committee on Finance, we added money to the fight against cybercrime. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF) and the European Social Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ESF) and the European Social Fund (ESF). We also thought it was important to improve the efficiency of online police activities, and this is an indication that the role of the police is expanding all the time, or if it does not expand, it will at least be renewed and new tasks will be added to it all the time. We also heard more than one hearing about emergency centre activities in the Administrative and Security Section. In fact, in 2014 it was still possible to answer 95% of calls in 10 seconds and 98% in 30 seconds. In 2015, 92% was dropped, and now this year, in the first six months, the response rate of 10 seconds was only 91 per cent. This was seriously highlighted in the hearings in the Section for Administration and Security that if we do not increase the resources for emergency response, these expectations will increase in the future. Let's talk about seconds, but then, in many situations, it's a long time for someone who needs help. More than 3 million calls every year to emergency centers. Much has been said about the number of police officers today, and I welcome the fact that that 8.5 million was added. It will be able to secure the continuation of 200 temporary police officers in work next year. So basically all the cops are employed, and the number of cops is not a question of money. Next year, therefore, we will need more people trained in police work, and that is why the government is also responding to this. In order to ensure this, the proposal therefore includes an additional allocation to increase the number of students admitted to the Police College of Applied Sciences to 400 students, enabling the minimum number of police officers to be maintained in accordance with the Internal Security Report. It is important that the resources of the protection police are also taken care of. In my previous speech, I referred, for example, to the possible return to Finland of Isis, Daesh terrorist fighters, and it is very important that we be able to follow who might be trying to get back here. And the flow of refugees should also be monitored. Mr President! My conscience, too, is that I want to be able to hear Mr Kari Tolvanen speak again before the next section, and I will therefore end for four minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u183	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u184	Mr President! This surprised me a little bit. Thank you, Mr Heinose. This is where these asylum seekers were examined earlier with the Minister, and they actually arrived here last year in 32476, and as was then seen and profiled, there may be only one third of asylum. Currently, 27% have received asylum and some 6800 applications have not been processed. It is now right that the most in need should be given security, women, children, the elderly, and that they should be taken here. That's how it's supposed to be. After all, the government has a programme of 80 measures on what is to be done in this asylum crisis. So those who deserve asylum will receive it as quickly as possible, and those who do not deserve it will leave Finland as quickly as possible. Now I am concerned about illegal residents — and they are, in particular, illegally staying in the country, they have a negative decision, which is valid, they are not undocumented, they are illegal — because if this group grows very big, they are easy victims of crime, victims of trafficking and, secondly, they are easy recruits for organised crime. For example, we have gruesome examples of suburbs in Sweden, where rescue authorities, for example, are afraid to go without the police. We can't make that up here. Similarly, we have certain risk factors for individuals who have been in warring areas and have returned here. They are particularly to be followed up, and it is quite gratifying that the supo has received additional funding for this activity. In recent years, Mr Supo has received several additional appropriations, although the total amount has been slightly reduced, and the staff of the contribution has indeed increased to around 350. That's the way it's supposed to be. Even when the intelligence law — preferably during this reign — is passed, we will also have the tools for this fight against terrorism. That's the way it's supposed to be. Mr President! Just a few more words about these police resources. It is great that in this downward trend, the police have received additional funding from the government of 8.5 million and from the section for a specific activity, including the prevention of sexual exploitation of children online. That's the way it's supposed to be. These statistics are somewhat misleading in that at the best times when we had 7800 police officers in Finland, a little bit on top, we were also counted according to the protection police staff, that is, about 350, and now we have 7,200, which is, in fact, if we use old mathematics, we have 7,500 and on top. So even though this amount is too small, the bill has not been quite so big since here is little of this supo status changed, it has moved directly to the Ministry of the Interior. But it is a fact that the police need more resources, and it is excellent that these 200 young policemen are now allowed to continue their work for next year. It's necessary. But money really can't buy more, because even if we have more money, we don't have any unemployed cops at all. But it is important to increase the level of education. In fact, this year some 50 new police officers will be completed, but in the future the number of training will increase to 400 per year. That's the way it's supposed to be. Similarly, the Border Guard must be protected in these times of hybrid threat and remember the important work that the Border Guard does. To conclude, what has been a challenge to police administration — I have been there for some thirty years and I know that it is always a challenge, including all judicial authorities — has a short-term financial perspective. That parliamentary working party last season tried to achieve a long-term goal of at least one government term so that we could know how much money is available, whether we are talking about security or judicial authorities. There should also be such a pipe thinking: from the emergency center notification to the prison, until the Criminal Sanctions Agency. Its funding must be fair for everyone, so that the pipe works and the suma stays there. I'm sure there's still a lot of work to be done next spring for the minister to solve this kind of eternity problem, but I have every confidence in the minister and I think he'll solve this one too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u185	The general discussion on this section will be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u186	The general debate on Section 26 of the Ministry of the Interior, which was suspended earlier today, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u187	Mr President! The Committee on Finance adds EUR 500000 to the fight against online crime, some of which goes to the prevention of sexual exploitation and the fight against cyber-bullying and scams. What is behind this concerns more than one area of government. Somehow I interpret that this kind of hate speech, quick conversation, deliberate provocation, has increased. Why is that? One reason, I suppose, may be the lack of empathy, the loss of empathy, the inability to share the feelings of others. Again, it is closely linked to how much we read and how much children read and how well they know their native language. Responsibility for this cannot be brought down to society alone; responsibility also rests with parents, families and guardians.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u188	Mr President! The government is investing in security. The role of the police as a security actor and importer is at the heart of internal security. The Government responds to a challenging security situation by increasing police resources. An additional EUR 8.5 million was proposed in the draft budget for the operational expenditure of the police action. With this funding it is possible to extend the deadline of 200 police officers even after the turn of the year. Still, there's a great deal of concern about the police. Police resources in relation to workload are not sustainable. The Committee on Finance therefore referred to its opinion on the Internal Security Report, in which it was concerned that the number of policemen in the EU as a whole is already the lowest in terms of population. The Committee on Finance therefore considers it essential to ensure the availability of new police officers in the coming years. In order to ensure this, the proposal includes an additional allocation To increase the number of students admitted to the Police College of Applied Sciences to 400 students.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u189	Mr President! In this area of administration of the Ministry of the Interior, I would like to pay particular attention to internal security and the fight against the shadow economy. In the context of internal security, there is still a strong rise in the number of asylum seekers in the last year. On the other hand, the government's savings targets for the entire spending limits period are not good. The reduction in the number of police officers haunts the framework year after year. The fact that the police were given the opportunity to re-hir temporary police officers for next year is a good thing — for that I thank Minister Risiko. In practice, police activity is at a rather extreme level. Compared to the 2010 figures, the number of police officers has fallen by over 500. In addition, the number of police graduates is considerably lower than the number of retired persons. Of course, efforts are now being made to improve on this. This reduction in the number of police officers is already evident in the service work for citizens, such as criminal investigation. The police have had to prioritize the subjects of the criminal investigation so that some of the requests for an investigation remain unresolved. This contributes to the loss of public confidence in the police — a matter that the Finns feel has been at a very high level for a long time. The message has also come from a change in the health and safety situation of the police. In sparsely populated areas, the lack of support patrols has already led to very high risk situations. The same is true for the Emergency Response Centre. The reduction in the number of staff has also been strong in this sector. In the draft budget, the target of 541 staff has been set when, according to the Internal Security Report, it should be between 600 and 630. In addition, staff sickness is significant, indicating an overload of work. Mr President! We in the Left Alliance have drawn attention to the need for an investigation into the shadow economy. The grey economy and all kinds of financial crime are causing a huge fall in public finances. In various surveys, the grey economy has been estimated to account for between 5 and 14 per cent of Finland’s gross domestic product. The resulting tax deficit is significant. The fight against the shadow economy has brought income to the state many times as much as the resources invested in it, but now these investments are on the decline. Fortunately, Minister Risikko has returned money to investigate the shadow economy. Of course, in the Left Alliance we believe that the investment in it should have been higher, because the extra 5 million will be cut by the increase in automatic traffic control. It should also be noted that most of the resources to combat the shadow economy come from the police's core funding, which is also being significantly cut in the coming years. Then, with regard to the control of heavy traffic, we still need heavy traffic controllers with the skills of a mobile police officer. Such tasks include checking drivers' driving and rest time recorders, checking overloads and checking that the goods are correctly secured. At present, vans and trucks must have a licence, a transport licence, a driver's certificate and a transport document and can be presented either in paper form or electronically if requested by the police or Customs. These regulations have been designed to ensure the legality of transport operations. Now these provisions will be removed from the government's proposal. You have foreign trucks whose condition and loading do not meet the requirements of Finnish law. In addition, control of transport has been transferred from the police and Customs to Trafi. However, Trafi does not have sufficient resources and experience in this type of control. Special expertise and professional skills are needed to monitor heavy traffic. Separate units would be better placed to monitor comprehensively heavy traffic as well as cabotage. A separate unit would bring more safety to transport and prevent a black economy in transport. It would also guarantee jobs for Finnish carriers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u190	Mr President! The Government has completed a report on internal security during this year. The report is under discussion here in Parliament and work has also been started on that basis to prepare an internal security strategy. We will hopefully be able to discuss the strategy here in Parliament next year. It is good to be aware that the situation in internal security is changing. In the light of the events of recent months, previous major cuts and cutbacks in the context of police action seem no longer to be so sensible. Our stable and peaceful society has become more uncertain, and more and more members of our society are experiencing an increase in the feeling of insecurity. The internal security strategy should be prepared in a cross-sectoral manner. It is important to take account of the whole of internal security and future needs. The review takes into account the needs of different regions in order to achieve our goals in Finland as the safest country in the world. The government has reacted to a changed situation in internal security. An additional EUR 8.5 million has been allocated to the police action. This additional allowance can be used to extend 200 temporary police contracts after the turn of the year. This increase will enable the level of police to be maintained almost at this year's level. These additions have a clear message for society to maintain the level of safety. In addition, the committee has increased EUR 500000 to prevent the sexual exploitation of children and to combat cyber bullying and online scams, both of which are very important. The unrest of our society was reflected, among other things, in the riots in Pyhäjoki last summer. Policemen were evacuated from a wide area to secure the peaceful flow of the riot, and in the rest of the province they were allowed to try out the interface of the law in peace and quiet. Now construction operations in the Pyhäjoki nuclear power plant have reached the point where the site is fenced and only those with access to the site have access. These measures ensure that the work is at peace on a legal construction site. That's why regionally for us. For the residents of the southern part of Oulu, a valuable report from the committee on the security of the coast guard stations in Kalajoki and Kemi is available. To this article of the Border Guard, the committee has allocated an additional allocation of EUR 550000 to safeguard the operation. Kalajoki station plays an important role in ensuring maritime safety in the region, especially in view of the construction site of Pyhäjoki nuclear power plant and its future operations. Due to last summer's unrest, in order to secure an area without fences, the Border Guard has a significant role to play. More industrial activities are still coming into the Kemi industrial area and it would be a good idea to leave a large port of export without safety at sea. As far as the border guard is concerned, we must also see a change in our society. A peaceful border situation may change very quickly and in a surprising place. Compared to these, the calm attitude of previous years towards a stable border situation has changed radically. In this budget, too, the government has reacted as the committee did, and the additional allocation for the adjustment targets has been increased, albeit modestly but with a positive spirit, with a contribution of EUR 550000. The outcome of the internal security strategy work will hopefully make the needs of the border situation clear so that the economic plans can then respond better. The Border Guard has had to adjust its operations for a long time, and we are now at the pain limit in relation to the changing world security situation. With regard to the resources of the security authorities, I am concerned. The situation in the longer term must be taken over in the coming spring when Parliament adopts the report on the Internal Security Report. As part of the preparation of the Government’s spending limits, I hope that the Government will allocate sufficient funds to the police and other internal security actors to implement an internal security strategy that Finland is the safest country in the world, in line with the objectives of the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u191	Mr President! Immigration is a central part of the Ministry of the Interior's administrative sector. In my speech, therefore, I am focusing on people who are illegal in the country. Mr President! It's the night of the night when the gift papers are falling apart, but some of them are partying undocumented. According to the authorities, the paperless term is not good because it does not describe the illegality of the activity. As we know, man is not illegal, but staying here without proper papers is. In this way, it is also time to show support for those in need in the vicinity of Christmas. One example is support for voluntary return. Voluntary return is definitely the best solution for an illegal person and also for society as a whole. It is not a matter of begging for mercy in church premises, but of restoring life to normal order. If there are no conditions for a residence permit, I believe that our own beloved country, friends, family and possible reconstruction will bring security, support and hard work. In this context, I would like to point out that the authorities and the Helsinki Department of the International Organisation for Migration (IOM) support the voluntary return of those who have received a negative asylum decision to their country of origin. The forced return is the last resort. More than 40% of illegal residents in Europe are asylum seekers who have received a negative asylum decision. As these decisions now become more frequent, the number of illegal residents will inevitably increase in Finland, and this could jeopardise our overall security. However, much has already been done. According to the recent Suomen Kuvalehti, there has been a turnaround in immigration policy. Last year 85% of residence permit applications were accepted, this year 85% negative. At the same time, when cuts are being made to police and border authorities, preventive measures must be taken to deal with this new threat. The Government is preparing an action plan for preventing and managing illegal residence. The Supreme Administrative Court has confirmed the Finnish Immigration Service’s line in which you can flee to South Iraq, for example. Since this possibility of internal escape was highlighted in the guidelines of the Finnish Immigration Service last spring, only about 17% of Iraqi asylum seekers have received a positive asylum decision. Finland cannot therefore be the primary source of escape if there is also the possibility of seeking security within the country. The Supreme Administrative Court ruled that an internal escape is possible for a healthy and capable man, even if he does not have a family or support network in the area. Furthermore, arbitrary violence alone does not pose a danger to anyone coming from Baghdad that would require subsidiary protection. An asylum seeker from Baghdad must also have personal grounds to be granted subsidiary protection. The line taken by KHO is clear and supports the government's immigration policy. Mr President! The success of the return will be furthered by continuing negotiations on return agreements not only with Afghanistan but also with Somalia and Iraq — the agreement with Afghanistan has already been concluded. The agreement takes particular account of the possibility of forced return, but, as has been said, as a last resort. There are different ways of securing the success of returns here too in Finland. At the time of the notification of the removal decision, the police shall inform them of the possibility of voluntary return. At the same time, it will be ensured that other authorities and organisations also actively provide voluntary return when meeting unauthorised residents. To promote voluntary return, the Finnish Immigration Service prepares material for national use for both authorities and organisations. Mr President! Finland has done better with voluntary return than many European countries. This year alone, more than a thousand Iraqis have returned to their homeland through this voluntary return programme. This can be seen as a success, and we should continue along this path.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u192	Mr President! In this section 26, in the Ministry of the Interior's administrative field, it says that 'immigration can help prevent possible future shortages of labour and also strengthen the knowledge base'. I remember that we were promised a labour shortage in the '70s, a labour shortage in the '80s, a labour shortage in the '90s and a labour shortage in the 21st century. We have always had either unemployment or high unemployment. Then another thing, this, is that "strengthen the knowledge base". We Finns have huge intellectual capital. I wonder why we have not been better able to repeat it in terms of exports and business. That is where we should invest more in making it maximum use of human capital, rather than getting people to live here on the basis of Finnish social security. This goes on to say that "immigration in many sectors is already of considerable importance for the availability of labour". Well, this is for real. Here in the south, Estonian men take up quite a lot of these construction work, but it costs us that the Finnish builder will then be unemployed at the same time. I myself once left politics so that we could avoid the mistakes that other European countries have made. In practice, this Islamic humanitarian immigration has proved to be a failure to succeed in the desired way. In the Brexit case, the camel's back was cut off by immigration, and Britain has stated that they are even prepared to settle for a little worse trade agreements if they are sure to be able to decide more about immigration on their own. Hungary is turning asylum seekers at the border and has not come into any trade sanctions or other sanctions from the EU. I myself argued in the autumn of 2015 that we would have turned asylum seekers at the border. In this way we would have saved hundreds of millions, over a thousand million would have saved money. Only about one third of asylum will be granted, and how much will it cost us to deal here with asylum applications that do not lead to a positive decision? In addition, this uncontrolled humanitarian immigration takes away both money and security. And these are the terrorist mass murderers we support here, because we do not choose at the border who comes here to Finland. We'll just accept and afterwards investigate who's come here. Moreover, these legal costs are very expensive when they complain to the administrative court about a negative decision and then to the Supreme Court. This proposal by Mr Simon Elon to take away even that right of appeal to the Supreme Court would already bring a lot of savings. The Finns of Peru have been blackmailing immigration policy all along, and I personally am horrified by such an idea if the Finns of Peru had not been in the government. If these other parties were in favour of this liberal and borderless immigration policy, how much more would we have had? I'm not even going to guess. This change is quite clear. First came the Brexit, and now, for example, in France, you can no longer even become president if you are not conservative and mamucritic: Fillon and Le Pen are both mamucritical and conservative. This translation has taken place because being positive is a good thing, but being too naive leads to destruction. We are bringing that sense to this now, and Europe is becoming that sensible trend, and I hope that we too will be able to get this under control as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u193	Mr President! If I am satisfied with many of the government's actions, it is impossible to be satisfied with it, which is the government's contribution to reducing these costs of immigration. I have already asked the two Home Secretarys in a row what the government intends to do to save the unit costs of asylum seekers, i.e. — to put it more clearly — how to print the day in the reception centre cheaper. We are talking about hundreds of millions of expenditure, of which even cutting a fraction would make it possible to cancel many of the savings that are detrimental to the underprivileged. Or we could cancel the planned motorcycle tax with such savings very easily. However, this simple question has not been answered. How should this be interpreted? They didn't even want to get these savings? How can this be when everything else is cut? The asylum business must be able to take away too much profit. There is also a clear reduction in attraction factors when staying in a reception centre is not comparable to staying in a hotel in full care.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u194	Mr President! I already mentioned in yesterday's general budget debate that one major reason for the government budget deficit next year is the increased costs of hundreds of millions of euros of immigration compared to normal years. It is therefore essential that the government make much more determined efforts to implement its immigration and asylum policy programmes. Last year, more than 32,000 asylum seekers came to Finland, an estimated 6,000 applicants this year. However, this figure is still well above the normal years and is largely due to applicants from Russia arriving in the early part of the year. Now it's settled. The report by the Committee on Finance has considered it necessary to speed up the processing of applications for asylum, and this has already been done by means of legislation, among other things, by improving the processes of administrative rights. However, it is essential to ensure the quality of the decisions so that applicants are not given positive decisions in line work, as seems to have been the case in autumn 2015. The line seems to have tightened clearly this year. Mr President! Approximately EUR 280 million has been earmarked for the reception of refugees and asylum seekers for next year. This year the cost has been as high as EUR 632 million. The reception centres have now been closed significantly and the use of the remaining centres must be efficient. And while this decreasing cost development is a positive thing, it must be remembered that some of the expenses are passed on to municipalities, for example, after those who have received a residence permit become residents of municipalities. Mr President! Finally, the Minister: Mr Risikko pointed out that asylum seekers who have been given a valid negative decision should be effectively removed from the country. The Minister seems to be developing in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u195	Mr President! Finland has a border of 1,300 kilometres in common with Russia, so an excellent proposal is to step up control of the eastern border by hiring 80 new border guards. Voluntary defence work will also receive an additional EUR 404,000. With this additional effort, it is possible to support a wide range of different types of Finnish defence-related civic activities. Mr President! Cybercrime has multiplied and, unfortunately, many of these crimes remain unresolved at the moment. In its report, the Committee on Finance has also paid particular attention to cybercrime and has allocated EUR 500000 in additional funding to combat cybercrime. This is a very good decision. Money is allocated, among other things, on two very important issues: preventing the sexual exploitation of children online, combating cyber bullying and online scams, and solving them. Mr President! The operational expenditure of the Emergency Response Centre is set at approximately EUR 50 million. The Emergency Response Centre Authority shall respond to and forward to the assisting authority emergency reports relating to the safety of persons, property and the environment. Emergency Response Centre activities affect the whole chain of assistance and are a key factor in coping with crisis situations in society. I support the increase in the budget of EUR 200000 proposed by the Committee on Finance in relation to the operating expenditure of the Emergency Response Centre.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u196	Mr President! I welcome the increase in police appropriations in the supplementary draft budget of the Committee on Budgets. These increases make it possible to extend the deadline of 200 police officers and to employ practically all police officers and the number of police officers no longer lags behind because of the limited budget. In these times of many threats and unrest, this can be very gratifying. Mr President! Once the coming year has been secured, the key issue in the future will be to ensure the availability of police officers for the coming years. In order to ensure availability, the draft budget therefore includes an additional allocation to increase the number of students admitted to the Police College of Applied Sciences to 400 students. This increase in the number of admissions will enable the minimum level of 7000 police officers to be maintained in the years to come in line with the Internal Security Report. Mr President! I am in favour of securing the resources of the police, and these financial reports do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u197	Mr President! I would like to emphasise the important article in Suomen Kuvalehti, which indeed stated this full translation of asylum policy: 85 per cent of approved residence permits last year, 85 per cent of applications rejected this year. And a quote from this Finnish Photo magazine: "After the Finnish Immigration Service interpreted in the spring that it is safe to return to Iraq, only about 17 per cent of Iraqi applicants have been allowed to stay in Finland. The line differs significantly from other EU countries' decisions. In the EU countries, on average, 59% of Iraqis have been granted asylum or residence permits; in Sweden, a positive decision has been taken by 45% and in Germany, 71.5 % of Iraqis" — 17 % in Finland since this spring. The next time a single voter comes to me in tures and squares to say that this government has not blackmailed asylum policy, I will direct him to the most recent Finnish Photo magazine — no more advertising of the magazine. The second point I would like to raise is the so-called foreign fighters mentioned by Mr Heinonen — although I am very much alien to this word of foreign combatant, but it is the terrorists who come back to Finland, to put it quite folklore. As far as these people are concerned, I think it is a little peculiar to the idea of the Ministry of the Interior, perhaps this general thinking in Europe, that these people could somehow be turned back. I dare say that there are few cases that can be turned back. If you have gone down this ultra-Islamist path, abandoned all the values of our Western democracy and, you may say, fundamental humanity, then it is very difficult to see how such a person could be turned back. I very much hope that these cases will exist and can be helped, but unfortunately I believe that these people are rather scarce.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u198	Mr President! After a little bitter feedback, we must give the Minister a small word of thanks when it has been earned. In other words, the savings of the Border Guard threatened to change the opening hours of Imatra and some other international border stations away from 24 hours a day, so that those border stations would have been closed at night. The savings would have been very small, of a size of tens and at most hundreds of thousands, but the damage to business would have been very great. The attitude of the officials who prepared this showed a strange arrogance: it was said that liquor and gas were being applied for across the border, without understanding the importance of the border link for business and the size of the decision to change the opening hours of that border, because it also affects Russia. Fortunately, however, Minister Risikko, after listening to the party borders, announced that these savings would be cancelled.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u199	Mr President! Immigration and its costs still speak to Finns. According to an IMF study published early in the year, Finland will incur the third highest costs in the current year as the costs of the refugee crisis are proportional to gross domestic product. Only Sweden and Denmark took precedence over Finland in this survey. The current government has therefore been working actively to reduce the cost of immigration for a very good reason. The draft budget before us has allocated EUR 250000, inter alia, to information activities related to immigration. Enhanced information based on facts can prove to reduce the number of asylum seekers who are seeking falsely in Finland. Mr President! It is also a very good thing that we now have a national programme for monitoring the reception system, which will make it possible to improve the financial management of reception centres. The draft budget provides for an amount of EUR 5.8 million to finance voluntary returns. The organisation of voluntary returns and their success are directly linked to the number of people staying illegally in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u200	Mr President! Last year around 32,500 asylum seekers arrived in Finland — nearly ten times as many as in normal years. Finland was not prepared for this. The situation was brought under control, thanks to the government's brisk operations and good cooperation between the authorities. In the current year, approximately 5,500 people have applied for asylum in Finland. The budget for next year has provided for 10,000 asylum seekers. Looks like we could use the budgeted money. So far, about a quarter of asylum applications have been negative. During the next spring, decisions on negative residence permit decisions will be final. The risk is the formation of a so-called undocumented group, of which no one knows anything and who are exposed to criminal activity or crime. Mr President! The Administrative Committee visited Italian hotspots in the autumn. A huge number of refugees come to Sicily on the so-called Mediterranean route from African countries, mainly the sub-Saharan regions. This Mediterranean route from Libya to Italy is in the hands of human smugglers. This completely criminal and inhuman activity must be brought to an end by all means available. The Government has discussed the implementation plan to integrate those who have received a positive residence permit decision. It is important to have a big policy on integration, for example in investing in municipalities. Our society can't stand another, foreign society.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u201	Mr President! Security is a central task of the state. In the area of police action, emphasis is placed on police preparedness, financial crime and the fight against the black economy — a very good thing. Another good thing is that there will be an increase in the budget: EUR 245000 will be allocated to the prevention of sexual exploitation of children on the Internet. As I said, security is a central task of the state, every sexual offence is too much. I am very pleased that our government, too, assumes once again that children are entitled to immunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u202	Mr President! The European Commission has acknowledged that there are significant weaknesses in the structures of European asylum and immigration policy and has submitted legislative proposals to Member States to improve the effectiveness of the asylum system. They were also discussed in parliamentary committees. At last, several critical aspects of the merits of the Finns were recorded in the Finnish position. Among other things, the Government has reservations about proposals aimed at establishing permanent arrangements for transfers of asylum seekers which are binding on the Member States. It is absolutely essential to be able to decide at national level on the number of people to be reinvested. The objective of the reform of the asylum system must be to reduce unjustified applications for asylum and to improve the efficiency of procedures for the removal of those who have received a negative asylum decision. When developing the Dublin system, Member States must have obligations and incentives to manage the flow of migrants without shifting pressure to other Member States. Mr President! The Commission's proposal to extend the definition of family members was also totally unacceptable. The proposal would include family relations that would have been established after leaving the country of origin but before entering the Member State. Finland’s position was taken against the extension of the definition of a family member. It is quite clear that it would have had a cost-increasing effect. Finland's position was also taken against the Commission's proposal to extend the right to free legal aid to the entire asylum process.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u203	Mr President! According to the budget for next year, there will be 10,000 asylum seekers. I'm sure this is a realistic idea at the moment of what we have. But it seems that there has been such an idea in the air in Finland that, in a way, this situation is over and now we are starting to cool down. Unfortunately, that is not the case. According to the latest EU immigration report, 13.5% more asylum seekers arrived in Italy in October on the Middle Mediterranean route than in the corresponding period last year, and we know what amounts came to Europe as a whole last year, over a million people. 26. Since 1 September, more than 30,000 people have arrived in Italy, indeed 13.5 per cent more in October than at that time a year ago. This means, of course, that it will take at least weeks for these people to reach North Europe, and that means, of course, that we will leave, in my opinion, realistically 10,000 asylum seekers, but we should not be surprised either if, for one reason or another, next year, when the weather in the Mediterranean is warming up again, this wave goes up again. The same factors as in the past, which are driving people, are still in force in the Middle East in terms of world politics, in other words conflicts and poverty. In this respect, it is also worth recalling the Syrian conflict, which, of course, is a regrettable situation there, but there have been very few Syrians in Finland — the majority of those who came to Finland were Iraqis, and I would argue that there is no direct conflict there at the moment. So very much depends on the country who comes. In the case of Finland, we start at 10,000, but we are prepared to do so, at the very least mentally, that there may be more.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u204	Section 28 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Finance is now presented. President of the Section, represented by Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u205	Mr President! The section chapter of the Ministry of Finance Support for municipalities includes an appropriation of EUR 8.9 billion for the provision of basic municipal services. That's just under 400 million less than this year. Local government finances will be affected by an exceptionally large number of factors in the coming year and years. Next year, central government shares will be reduced, among other things, by the effects of the competitiveness agreement and the transfer of basic income support to Kela. The central government share is increased by a cost-sharing review and full compensation for tax losses, as well as the development of family and family care and services for the elderly, which will account for 100 per cent of the central government. The decrease in pension contributions contributes to strengthening the local government economy. The competitiveness agreement reduces municipal expenditure, as employers' contributions and holiday allowances, among other things, fall. On the other hand, the agreement reduces the income of municipalities due, among other things, to tax deductions. The overall impact of the agreement on local government finances is negative, EUR 168 million. The Committee notes that, in the longer term, the agreement will, however, increase economic growth and employment and thus strengthen local government finances. The Committee considers it important for the government to monitor the impact of the Competitiveness Pact on municipalities. Overall, government measures will strengthen the local government finances by EUR 39 million next year. This is shared by both the committee, the ministry and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. There may also be substantial differences between municipalities. After several years of cuts, government measures will strengthen local government finances both this year and next year. This is important to safeguard the services of municipalities and, among other things, to curb pressure on tax increases. According to the budgetary position target set in the budgetary plan, the municipal deficit will be up to 0.5% of GDP by 2019. By then, the government must reduce the operating expenditure of local government finances by at least EUR 770 million compared to the so-called technical budgetary plan prior to the government term. The committee considers the expenditure limitation objective to be justified and stresses the importance of the measures needed to achieve it. The committee attaches importance to the various measures contained in the Government Programme aimed at reducing municipal expenditure. The reduction in the costs of municipalities, regions and the whole publicsector for the project—newnameproject—to the So far, the reform has progressed slowly. In addition to government measures, municipal measures are still necessary. In conclusion, despite weak economic growth, the local government economy is stable. After 2007, for the first time now no municipality is in crisis municipalities. The tax rate will rise by 47 municipalities next year, but it will also be reduced by 14 municipalities, which is the largest figure of this millennium. The average municipal tax rate will be 19.91 next year. Mr President! The appropriations allocated to the preparation of the regional and social reform have been allocated to a new item. It is important that next year the reform takes place through the establishment of the provisional institutions and the establishment of the administration. The committee notes that regional and social reform is the largest administrative reform undertaken in Finland and has a significant impact on the role, tasks and activities of municipalities and the economy. It follows that the Parliamentary Municipality of the Future project, led by Minister Vehviläinen, is particularly important and is expected to do so very much in the municipalities. With regard to this section of the draft budget, the committee made one change: it abolished the EUR 1.5 million allocation for the reunification grant for the municipality of Rääkkylä. As a result of the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, the connection of Rääkkylä to the city of Kite was cancelled. Mr President! I would like to thank the members of the committee and section for their good work in this regard, and I hope that the Minister will also be pleased with our presentation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u206	Mr President! In this area of administration of the Ministry of Finance, I will confine myself to Customs' operational expenditure, for which an amount of approximately EUR 160 million is proposed. The reduction in the amount of Customs' appropriation is affected, among other things, by the transfer of car and excise duties from Customs to the Tax Administration. Of the other changes in appropriations, the biggest is an increase of around EUR 11 million in the IT system reform of customs clearance. The Committee welcomes the fact that this appropriation also includes expenditure on premises due to the loss of free spaces. According to a report received by the committee, there are a total of around EUR 3.6 million in appropriations that do not involve a corresponding decrease in expenditure. About 80% of Customs' operating expenditure is staff costs, so in practice the staff will be cut. Since 2016, Customs has reduced its personnel by a total of 400 person-years. Up to now, changes in staff have been achieved through natural removal and through digitalisation, a mobile customs control model, the adaptation of the establishment network and control technology. In order to achieve the operational expenditure savings presented for 2017 Customs, however, is considering laying off the entire staff for two weeks. In this context, the OD procedures have been initiated in October 2016. The layoffs would inevitably be reflected in operational operations, the availability and coverage of services and controls. In addition, lay-offs only shift the budget gap to the following year. The Committee considers it necessary for the government to take care of the conditions under which Customs operates and stresses that smooth customs operations also allow for the smooth operation of foreign trade. Mr President! Finally, it should be noted that, when considering the effectiveness of Customs’ operations, only the recovered proceeds are estimated to be around EUR 20 million in 2016. The committee adds EUR 300000 to Customs' operational expenditure.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u207	Minister Vehviläinen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u208	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Finance and, in particular, the section and Mr Kankaanniemi for this report, which is easy to agree with. I have read both the report and the statements and also the objections quite carefully here when they were completed. Mr President! As has already been mentioned here in the presentation, the local government finances will be strengthened by around EUR 40 million next year, given the combined effect of state measures. From 2017, it is becoming the second consecutive year when local government finances can be strengthened by the State. As the Committee on Finance notes in its report, the fact that there are no new crisis municipalities is also an indication of the improvement in local government finances. For the first time since 2007, as Mr Kankaanniemi has just pointed out, no municipality will be subject to an evaluation procedure due to a particularly difficult economic situation. It is also significant that 14 municipalities will decrease their municipal tax rate next year. Last time, there were at least the same number of municipal tax calculators in 2000, i.e. 16 years ago. There has been a radical change in the government's attitude towards local government finances compared with the last parliamentary term. During the previous parliamentary term, central government transfers intended for the provision of basic services such as education and health services were closed to close on EUR 1.4 billion. Now, in the Government Programme, the Government has committed itself to securing the central government shares of the municipalities, and we have also argued that the municipalities are not given new tasks and obligations, and if so, they will receive the full 100% State aid. Mr President! However, next year, in 2017, central government shares will be less than EUR 400 million lower than in 2016. Next year the central government share will be 25.23. The level of state participation is influenced by a number of factors already highlighted by Mr Kankaanniemi. Among other things, this transfer of basic income Kela reduces central government shares and also the cut of the previous government's EUR 50 million and savings on index-linked expenditure. On the other hand, the level of central government funding is raised by some issues, such as investments in the development of family and family care and the development of home services for the elderly and veterans. This time, in line with the budget debate, the system of central government transfers EUR 10 million to island members to compensate for the insularity costs, and this insular supplement was removed during the last parliamentary term, and it was now added here. The increase helps about 40 municipalities. For the first time, this budget has also brought together, for the first time across the ministries' borders, the budgetary needs for changes in the reform, i.e. the appropriations for preparing the regional and social reform were concentrated on a single item. There is a total of EUR 31.3 million for changes in social and regional reform. Mr President! Then there is the JTS billion, which means that when we have seen, on the basis of the preparation of the first year of the project to reduce the tasks and responsibilities of the municipalities, that the billion cannot be achieved through it, we have extended it to cover the entire public sector. Now, in the spring of next year, further decisions are to be taken in connection with the mid-term review, and that is why we call it the JTS billion, because it includes the whole review of this public sector. And a few words about digitalisation: We are investing a lot in promoting digitalisation in the development of public services next year. The most important of the key projects is this national income register, then, to mention others, the electronic housing register and also the digital services of informal care. I would also like to point out that, when I read these objections, I was a little surprised that the Social Democrats themselves objected to a cut of EUR 50 million in government development expenditure, and there are very important digitisation projects and many other projects, including police information systems reform projects, the judicial system, the reform of the tax system, and this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u209	It is now possible to ask for answers by pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u210	Mr President! In the early 1990s, when I came into municipal policy, the central government share was about 58%, and today it is about 25%, which means that it has also come down the slide here during the different governments. Minister, you said the last government cut. In the situation in which the previous government was, this surgery certainly also took place, but this current government has not cancelled those cuts but rather continued to do so. In addition to cutting in advance through the Kiky agreements, the opinions of municipalities on social welfare reform were very critical and there is concern about the impact of social welfare reform and other cuts on local government finances in the final analysis. I ask the Minister: how sensitive will you be to the local government economy, the impact of these major historic regional government reform and the social and health reform on the municipal economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u211	Mr President! Despite the massive cuts in central government shares in the last period
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u212	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u214	Mr President! The child’s right to day care cannot depend on the labour market situation of the parent, but the government has now limited the subjective right to day care. A recent study by THL revealed that poverty in families with children has increased and that families with poor families are especially families with unemployment. For such families it would be very important for the child to have a place for early childhood education, day care. And many experts have found that few who need day care on social grounds would actually seek it in fear of stigmatisation. When the decision was taken by the Parliament, we also accepted the commitment to follow up on the impact of the decision on municipalities, and I now ask the Minister of Local Government: how are you prepared to monitor the development of this day care situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u215	Mr President! Family and family care is finally the top project of this government, thank you for that. This government has taken action on this issue and, through state contributions, allows municipalities to make concrete improvements to the status and well-being of family carers. Minister, when the municipalities operate in very different ways and the money earmarked for this key project is not earmarked, I would have asked: how are the municipalities to be instructed, and is there any control over the implementation of these measures and objectives?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u216	Mr President! The representative, Mr Niikko, presented the work of Customs. Indeed. Customs is doing important work when considering overall safety. In this context, I would like to highlight the aspect that has not yet been raised here in any context, namely the role of Customs in anti-doping. The most amazing substances come to Finland across the border, and they end up in a grey economy for users who do not know what they are using, how they are using it, and even less do they know what the consequences are. The consequences can be terrible. Customs' work alone will bring back EUR 20 million this year as a criminal benefit, and I am not sure whether this figure will include the impact of this anti-doping work and the smuggling of doping at the border.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u217	Mr President! Next year, the local government finances will be strengthened by EUR 40 million. It may be difficult for a single municipality to see — at least in my own municipality of residence, and in many other municipalities, as a result of the competitiveness pact, next year may be very uneven. However, in the long term, the local government finances will be strengthened and its EUR 40 million will be strengthened next year. This is also about the big picture — the central government cuts are nothing like what has been done in the past — and also about the fairness that if additional tasks are carried out in municipalities, they will also be given 100 % funding in connection with them, for example, family care and things like this. But I would have asked the Minister when you were present: how do you now see at this stage in the government term this large picture of the balancing of local government finances? Next year
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u218	Värderade Herr Talman! I morgon kommer båtskatten att gå ut på remissrunda. Det är är en punktskatt som kommer att innebära mycket ny byråkrati och mera regler för att kunna inbringa circa 20 million euro. Vi ska se hur mycket det kommer att kosta Skatteförvaltningen och Trafiksäkerhetsverket att bygga upp den rai byråkratin och hur mycket av sjöbevakningens resurser som kommer att behöva allokeras för övervakningen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u219	Mr President! It will be very interesting to have a debate with the government parties about whether the local government finances will be cut next year or whether the local government finances will remain positive, as the government parties have promised. I would like, Minister, that, when this debate takes place next year, if you could bring out a report in the framework debate on how this is going to be, and in the framework debate that will follow. After many evenings of debate with the government parties, the Minister also pointed out that the state share of basic services was cut last season. It's true. Those same cuts are now at the bottom and you did not cancel them, even though you have criticised them. In addition to that, you made an additional cut of 50 million, which was also in force at the end of the last government term. But in addition to that, for the first time in the spending limits debate, you cut 75 million more in direct central government cuts than we would have done. It's a big mistake. I shouldn't have done that. And I am sorry that you also chose another way, that the tax revenue of the kiky cuts was not reimbursed or the actual kiky costs, and that you also cut the municipalities' share in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u220	Mr. Speaker! Mrs Kiuru should know the facts, because you have received this same paper, which also
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u223	I would also like to respond to the following representatives: Mrs Katainen, Mr Heinonen and Mr Räsänen. Then there is the Minister's reply, and then we will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u224	Mr President! In spite of all the criticisms I find it wonderful that this government has kept its promise to the municipalities,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u227	Mr President! The impact of state measures on local government finances on net will be positive next year when Finland turns 100. Our Government Programme includes a number of measures to strengthen the finances of municipalities and reduce municipal expenditure. This is also an important decision because we are about to undergo a social welfare reform that will also put all Finnish municipalities in a new position and situation. Urbanization seems to be accelerating in this country. I am concerned that once the HHT axis, recognised by the government as important, the Helsinki-Hämeenlinna-Tampere growth corridor, has received the MAL agreement as the first growth corridor, then now the state-owned VR will reduce a significant number of train shifts from Hämeenlinna and Riihimäki. In fact, it is now causing this area, which would be ideal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u228	Mr President! The big picture in this respect in relation to the local government finances and municipalities and therefore residents of municipalities is that the impact of the decisions taken will also continue to increase the differences between municipalities. This has been a long development in Finland due to migration and many other practical reasons, but for example, taking the net benefits of the Competitiveness Pact from municipalities through central government participation cuts means that municipalities are treated differently here. And then, when we know that in many other legislation municipalities have made quite different decisions — some municipalities have not wanted to touch, for example, the subjective early childhood education of children, others have raised customer charges quite a bit — I would have asked the Minister what your view of this municipal field is: how long are we going to allow the differences between these municipalities to increase?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u229	And then Minister Vehviläinen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u230	Mr President! In fact, there were quite a few questions about this whole local government economy. On this point, I understand very well that the opposition does not want to see that next year there are indeed positive things: that there will be no more crisis municipalities and then that 14 municipalities will reduce their tax rate. They are facts; they contribute to the fact that local government finances are better off than they have been for years. At least I myself think that it is not only the effect of state measures, of course, but the municipalities themselves are also doing this adjustment, and the municipalities themselves deserve the greatest credit for the well-being of the local government finances as a whole. But these government activities are not quite trivial either. When calculated in this context of making the budget, when making JTS, when making the municipal finances programme, what this synergy of state action is, it will be a strengthening of the local government finances for the second year in a row, and that is a good thing. But then, of course, it must be said that not everything is necessarily a permanent state, and we have major changes ahead of us. But once again, when we talk about this bigger picture, which we have been talking about for a couple of days now, we take the fact that if the Finnish economy is now going to grow and we also see what significance the Kiki agreement has for exports and for the economy as a whole, then it also means that new tax revenues are coming and that it will be possible to strengthen the local economy again. That everything has to do with everything, and that's really important. Then here is Mr Karimäki and Mr Karimäki The Louhean’s questions were somewhat similar in the sense of asking how to monitor these effects and who is doing it and with what accuracy. I would like to remind you that even though this money is here in the state-responsible tube, the substance ministries are the ones who are looking at the follow-up work, especially at this point, of course, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. And I also have a lot of confidence in the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, although the Association of Local and Regional Authorities does a good job of it. There may be much faster up-to-date information on how municipalities have taken certain State measures than the STM. Then Mr Löfström's question was a little on the part of Minister Orpo's side with regard to the taxation of boats. All I can say about this is that it is in the process of being prepared, and then there are groups that do not come under boat taxation, for example, professional fishermen, that is, those who are involved in this business are not involved there. Mr Katainen asked about this so-called JTS billion. When, in February, we in the Committee on Economic Policy said that it concerns the whole of public finances, we certainly wonder what cost savings we will be able to find on the government's table more, i.e. on all the key projects, including this digitisation project on my property. They are not cuts in this parliamentary term, that is what I would just like to say, there is the same time span as there is in the case of the 3 billion people in the war. So we'll look at the next decade, and it'll make this job easier. Then, on the other hand, I have noticed that and the opposition parties here know very well that, in the last parliamentary term of 2013, when a similar decision was taken to raise a billion people by reducing the tasks and obligations of municipalities, it was not very easy to do so, it was very difficult. But then I myself have also become in the Ministry of Finance so that I want to look at all this public finances. However, I think it is important for the whole that we consider that we find here such areas of enhancement, places where this can then be done again. Congressman Heinonen was concerned about the connections. They will probably be spoken of otherwise, but then it is quite clear that whether we are here in southern Finland by the growth corridor or anywhere else, in Savo or in the north, it is absolutely essential that the connections play. It is essential for people to be able to go to work, because many people also have long business trips, that they have good connections, and then that the infrastructure is in good shape.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u231	Then we'll take another debatative tour.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u232	Mr President! As has been pointed out here, the government is able to strengthen local government finances by EUR 40 million, but on the other hand, the total debt of municipalities amounted to EUR 15.5 billion last year and is estimated to be more than EUR 20 billion in 2020. Of course, a very large part of this is investment. For example, if you look at my hometown of Espoo, you invest heavily. As everyone will know at this stage, the West Metro will pay Espoo, i.e. only in the City of Espoo, EUR 770 million, which then comes largely with loan money, and in addition, for example, the school network is invested most in all municipalities, and of course the fact that there will be 4,000 new residents every year — one example of why more of this total debt will come to the municipalities. But I would like to ask the Minister how the Minister himself views this situation. However, this increase in total debt over this five-year period is quite significant. How did you see that in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u233	Mr President! I draw attention to the position of sub-regions, sub-regions, i.e. functional areas between regions and municipalities, centres of knowledge and industry — about fifty in Finland, hundreds of thousands of people in these centres, sub-regions, in total. In North Savo, in addition to Varkaus, the vitality of the whole region is also essential. It is now necessary to draw attention to the fact that quite a few structural changes, cuts and contractions want to accumulate in these very regions and, as they accumulate, they do create quite an ugly impression for vitality and for the future. It's a kind of de-regionalization. I ask you, Madam Minister: has the government considered this issue from this point of view, and do we see that the sub-regions are such regional economic engines?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u234	Mr President! Perhaps it is a good idea to review what is now the concern of the opposition. Of course, we regret the fact that there is no recognition of the facts here. I myself have clearly recognised the fact that during the last government term the local government finances were cut by reducing central government shares. This was done by the last government parties and has been continued by this government, even though the two opposition parties of that time strongly opposed it. You didn't cancel these state-owned cuts. In addition, at the end of this last parliamentary term, you introduced 50 million state-owned cuts and 75 million state-owned cuts in the spending limits debate, and they have been plentiful on the part of the OKM. In addition, here on the spending side, you have tightened the spending limit on local government finances by 230 million. This now leads you to adopt a completely new principle, of which the Association of Local and Regional Authorities states: "The proposed cuts in central government participation are very large and are based on assumptions about the measures taken by the municipalities themselves.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u235	Mr President! I myself would like to draw the same attention to what Mrs Kääriäinen has said, that, in these times, when these structural reforms are being carried out and, understandably, behind the problems of state finances, these reforms are unfortunately directed in a negative way at the towns and regions in the region. If we look at the Upper Savo region, where we come from with Kääriäinen and also with Mrs Katainen, there exports are considerably above the Finnish average, and, best of all, this exports go outside the EU. Nevertheless, we know that the seat of the district court is about to be closed down, that there will be jobs in health care, which will automatically lead to lower and lower housing values. When the Minister said that local government finances are getting stronger and new tax revenues are coming, I would like to ask quite frankly whether the legal legitimacy of these tax revenues is correct. The tax value of real estate tax is calculated on technical grounds and the property is taxed regardless of where the dwelling is located in Finland. This leads to:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u236	Mr President! Indeed, the tasks and roles of municipalities will change significantly in the coming years with this regional reform. I draw attention to this area of environmental governance and land use. After all, we now intend to delegate a number of tasks to municipalities and to increase the local authorities' own powers in many places in relation to this planning and land use. For example, the granting and processing of environmental permits has been postponed to municipalities and may be postponed. I would have asked you about this: What are the impacts of these increasing environmental and planning tasks on local government finances? It is true that, for example, when applying for environmental permits there are quite large fees, which will have to be paid, and of course they will come to the municipalities in the future, but will this have some impact on the local economy, or will these dynamic effects then compensate for the cost of these new tasks?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u237	Mr President! 300,000 people live in mold and moisture-damaged areas. A lot of these are children and young people who get sick for the rest of their lives. The situation is unsustainable and has been known for a long time. In 2013, on the basis of a worthy report from the Audit Committee, Parliament adopted a report containing a large number of concrete proposals to improve the situation. In order to reduce health damage, a long-term plan was presented, supported by greater state support. We Greens therefore propose that a three-year programme be drawn up to support renovation projects, during which EUR 100 million is allocated annually to municipal renovation projects. My question is: what is the government doing in concrete terms to promote municipal home repairs?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u238	Mr President! It is now necessary for the Social Democrats to read and correct your misconception that the government is undermining the role of the municipalities. It is true what is said in this budget book, according to this book, 422 million fewer municipalities will be used to support municipalities — that money will be around 8.6 billion next year, and it will be around 5% less — but it has nevertheless been proven that, regardless of the reduction in the state contribution, the impact of state measures will be strengthening the local government economy, as was heard, 250 million this year and nearly 40 million next year. This was not possible by the last government, not even close to it, but almost EUR 1.2 billion of central government and tax changes were made in the last government, i.e. the last government, to put it in Finnish, robbed municipalities of funds and opportunities to provide basic services, and this government fortunately went on to improve them. And this road must be kept clear, the goal is clear, and the goal is clear that the municipalities will receive
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u239	Mr President! I think most of us are not only the decision-makers but also the decision-makers of our own municipality, and we all know that in our own municipality, probably nowhere, we don't bang the suspenders. As the Minister well said, the municipalities themselves are lifting themselves out of this swamp, and that is a good thing. At the time, Prime Minister Lipponen, in his own government's programme, raised the issue of urban policy, to which Mr Kääriäinen also made an excellent reference in his own speech. I myself come from a city region where the role of the central government as a producer of growth is significant. The Government has focused on this social welfare reform by creating 18 health business areas and regional government districts. Perhaps, in addition to this, we should also focus on the growth engine, the central and urban policies, to introduce a whole new driver? This is also the point raised by the Association of Local and Regional Authorities in several opinions — this is mainly for information purposes by the representative
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u240	Mr President! Mr Kiuru criticised the change in the expenditure limit in the euro in that speech, but now it must be remembered that the expenditure limit limits the pressure on the operating costs of the municipalities due to state measures, i.e. perhaps Mr Kiuru misunderstood the change in the expenditure limit somewhat. But Mrs Räsänen raised an important point in her speech. He assessed this competitiveness pact and, if I have listened correctly, said that the impact of the agreement varies from one municipality to another. And, Minister, there is my question: is it true that the government is also monitoring these effects of the Competitiveness Pact by municipality and, if necessary, by negative changes?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u241	Mr President! This is where Mr Korhonen will continue on this same matter. The fact is that, in fact, the disagreement that we have here, I think, relates largely to the fact that we know the way in which they reduce measures are taken, and they then appear as less state, and this benefit is largely such a calculated benefit, so-called dynamic effects, and it is divided quite differently between the different municipalities. With regard to this competitiveness pact, for example, it has to be said that in municipalities with a large number of public sector employees, for example, when holiday money is taken away from public sector workers, it directly affects the tax revenue of the municipality. And there its impact will be much greater than then in another municipality, where, for example, the business structure is more diverse. That is why I perhaps agree with this question by Mrs Korhonen: when the committee's report states directly that the government is actually monitoring the impact of the Competitiveness Pact on local government finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u242	Then I will give the floor to the representatives of Kankaanniemi, Heinonen and Krista Kiuru, and then there will be the Minister's reply, and then we will go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u243	Mr President! The representative Krista Kiuru only takes a small part of this relationship with the state-municipality and draws conclusions which do not describe the whole. Yes, you should now admit that, as a whole, this budget, according to the calculations, will strengthen the local government finances by around EUR 40 million, and that is essential. It brings the dynamics of the local government economy, the opportunities to carry out the important tasks of the municipality, i.e. services for the elderly, early childhood education and many more. Last season, you cut the government's share of the municipalities drastically, which was forced to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u245	Mr President! Local government finances will also be significantly affected next year by other factors which have also been raised here in the debate. These include, for example, the pension reform, which reduces the municipal employer's pension contributions, and also the competitiveness pact, which reduces the labour costs of municipalities. Thus, the combined result of the financial year of local government finances will be confirmed next year, that is a fact. In fact, I fully agree with what Mr Vehviläinen pointed out, that quite often in this Chamber, too, some of them are just talking about, say, the state and another debate about the local authorities alone: it would be terribly important to see this public finances as a whole. Perhaps the most glaring example is the green alternative budget, where we are supposed to be doing away with training savings, but still leave
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u246	Mr President! It is good that this expenditure limit came into the debate. I agree with Mr Korhonen that this is a question of restricting state intervention in relation to the municipal economy. This increase in expenditure was now a little out of hand, as the reform of vocational education and training, 190 million, has also been pushed in. In that respect, the good argument of the government parties that local government finances remain positive at around 40 million is based on the fact that this spending limit can be achieved. This requires that the municipalities act in accordance with state regulations, and it has already been established that this will not happen. This week, too, the debate on emergency services alone took EUR 7 million. On this basis, we are in a situation where the Association of Local and Regional Authorities quite disregards the fact that the proposed cuts in central government participation — what you are doing, therefore, within this spending limit, as measures restricting expenditure in municipalities — are very high and are based on the assumptions of the municipalities themselves. In the opinion of the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, these changes should have been taken into account
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u247	Then Minister Vehviläinen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u248	Mr President! First of all, Mr Elo raised this municipal loan portfolio: EUR 15.5 billion, rising to EUR 20 billion by 2020. It is true that it is good to follow it, even though the municipalities have not, in that way, been in debt in the large picture than perhaps this state-wide debt. But then I must say that it is also essential to what the municipality owes it. If you take an eating debt, that is not a good thing, but the municipalities are responsiblely taking the debt for investment. After all, that is what it is all about. Mr Kääriäinen then raised this issue in the region and it is very important for a number of reasons. And when you asked whether there has been any attention to it, the report is about to be completed, it has not yet been made public, nor has it been presented to me either: in recent months, the coordination group on regionalisation has collected facts from the field of activity of each ministry about what decisions have been taken and looks at the overall impact. And it is the case that, in general, when these decisions are taken in the Ministry’s administrative field, it is not considered whether there have already been some weakening changes in Iisalm or in thievery or in some other region just now. For the whole of Finland, we must honestly look at what has been done over the past 10 to 20 years, and that is not fair if it always happens in the same regions. But then, as you know, the other side is that we are preparing for this social and regional reform and, in 2019, these new provinces will begin. I think so in my own mind — this applies both to the provinces and to every municipality and to the provinces and also to those regions — and to the smart province, where the elected provincial decision-makers decide, they know how to give value to those regions as well. It is also that the region must have its place in these reforms, and it is linked to these service structures, but also to a number of other issues. Mr Karimäki then raised the difficult issue of these home and moisture problems. I noted this in your protest, and this was the subject of a debate in the autumn on the basis of this excellent report by the Committee on Audit. This substance is part of the Ministry of the Environment itself, but I would say — you know that we have had a lot of these foundational projects in the past, and then they were taken away from both the STM and OKM side — that I think it is bad if the municipalities start to wonder whether they get subsidies from the state to repair such moisture damage in the school or like that, because they have to be made right there for people's health, schoolchildren and teachers and staff. That is why I think that we must be able to do this right away and not wait for it to come from the state or not. Then there is the relationship between the municipality and the region in this regional reform. I myself assume that when there is a good and this kind of enlightened province and then the central city there and all the other municipalities, so they do not do the opposite work, they are not rivals to each other, but they have a common vision of the whole region and a vision of how to boost economic growth, better business activity, better employment. And that's a lot of work for everyone. That's how we do it. . .
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u251	Then we go to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u252	Mr President! There's no need to talk long after this debate. Perhaps that is what I wanted to say once again: in this social and regional reform, it is precisely the social welfare that has received its greatest attention and, for a little too small, it has left it behind, whether we are talking about civilisation or a society of vitality, and I would like to see more thought being given to this here as well, but above all, in the municipalities. The vitality of municipalities will certainly depend on many things in the future. This will of course be affected by the measures taken by the state, which are now strengthening the local government economy, hopefully also in the future, but also by transport solutions, for example, and I very much welcome the fact that these land use, housing and transport agreements have now been concluded not only for urban areas but also for urban areas: we want to strengthen existing transport links and growth corridors, for example, whether it is a motorway or rail. The region will continue to be important around cities in the future, but it is important to ensure that effective public transport is provided in land use. I remember when in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection an expert told me that operating regional transport needs about 20,000 people along the route, that traffic is going fast and that there is not just one option in the morning to take public transport to work or school, for example. I thank the government for changing the Land Use and Construction Act. One of the things I have been presenting is flexible zoning. We need to look for ways to respond more quickly to different situations and also to promote community in planning. Mr President! I personally believe that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u253	Mr President! During this period of debate, this competitiveness pact and its impact on local government finances emerged. It is quite true that in the short term it is difficult for some municipalities, but if you think of it in the long term, in the perspective of several years, and even in the perspective of the Bank of Finland the other day, then of course our exports will be strengthened, that our industrial investment will increase, that employment will also help the local government economy, and that big economic context should also include this competitiveness pact. We do seem to have a fundamental disagreement with the Socialist Party about how to deal with municipalities and how to build confidential relationships. It is quite true that, of course, the government will not be able to reverse all the actions of the previous government, in so far as specific references were made in the recent debate, because then, once again, our sovereign debt would increase, which has also been criticised by the opposition. However, it is also a fact that, despite this difficult Kiki agreement, the local government finances will be strengthened by EUR 40 million next year and, in general, the confidence in municipalities that, if new tasks are created, they will be compensated by 100%. And, of course, it is important that these tasks for municipalities should also be dismantled. Well, when it comes to the inequality between municipalities, it must be said that it is very important that social and health services are now transferred to the province, because it has perhaps been one of the main factors that has led to the inequality between municipalities, when a small municipality of less than a thousand people and a large capital have responded in exactly the same way to all social and health services. Now Finland is finally entering the time of the European municipal court, where there can be a lot of municipalities and a lot of them, but these expensive social and health expenditures are borne by the province.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u254	Mr President! It is really great that the municipal economy in the big picture now gets stronger after difficult years. The municipalities, of course, have made difficult adjustments themselves. In my own region of Central Finland, I have noticed that many municipalities have now made positive budgets and anticipate the development of local government finances very well over the next year, which is really positive when several years of deficit have been made here, and that is something we can all rejoice about. Of course, there are heavy investments to be made, and many investments related to these indoor air problems will have to be made by municipalities, but they must also be seen as a stimulus from the public sector, just as the larger state investments do. We must be surprised at this point in the recent debate: the fact that the Social Democrats considered the money for promoting digitalisation to be an act of looting — for some reason there are no more members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u257	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for his reply in relation to this development in the indebtedness of the municipalities. I fully agree that, to a large extent, it is a question of what the money is spent on. Of course, if they are used for reasonable investments, then they may well be able to make more money later. But I have to say that as an Espoan — I am not only a Member of Parliament but also an delegate — when it comes to municipal finances, I cannot fail to mention once again the Western Metro, which we are delighted to see today: 1.2 billion is a cost, and the cost has risen for the City of Espoo, taking into account an index increase of almost EUR 300 million from the original. What I would like to emphasise about these municipalities in such projects is, in particular, the drawing up of a good project plan. For example, Tampere, where projects of almost similar size have been carried out with much better results and less costs than that initial estimate, had a better project plan than in Espoo. Of course, there are many other things that have gone wrong in Espoo, but it is very important in this case that this project plan is in order. For the rest, I would like to thank the government for the fact that it is now dynamic or whatever the impact, according to estimates — it is an expert estimate — that EUR 40 million more local government finances are being strengthened so that it can be considered a good performance at this difficult economic time, otherwise what the state and everyone are living.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u258	Mr President! As Christmas approaches, the whole festival of Christendom, it will also be a year and a half for the Sipilä government. It is a good time to draw together what the journey of that year and a half has been going on together. President Paasikivi’s statement that ‘recognition of the facts is the beginning of wisdom’ has rarely been as timely as it is today. After two irresponsible reigns, the truth has been forced to look into the eyes. Unlike previous governments, the key issues, such as the consolidation of Finland’s public finances, the improvement of competitiveness and the preparation of structural reforms, have at last been pursued with conviction and determination. The EU's Stability and Growth Pact and the Economic Union Treaty, adopted by previous governments, and the so-called Economic Discipline Agreement, combined with irresponsible economic policy and party politics, have created the conditions in which Finland, aged 99, has been practically hanging loose and only one step away from the European Commission's leash. We have lived and are still living in a world of changes where even the possibility of military conflict is no longer excluded. However, criticism of the difficult decisions that have been taken, such as the Competitiveness Pact, which springs from the ranks of the people, has been completely understandable. Many people in difficult situations have been hit hard by the but mandatory cuts. The human price has been high in many places. However, it should be borne in mind that the second option would be to put the head on the leash of the EU Commission and dictate economic policy from Brussels. Nor would future generations forgive decision-makers for the destabilization of our society, our economy and our democracy as a result of party politics. Mr President! Finland has been in debt for some ten years, and if social stability and the Nordic welfare state or even parts of its features are to be saved, there is only one way. The necessary and unpopular decisions must be taken as long as democratically possible. The responsibility of each individual to choose his or her own life will also be emphasised. In the future, society will no longer be able to share risks as before without the price tag being too expensive. The work of the government is still in progress and is particularly ongoing with regard to the necessary rigorous forecasting of immigration and asylum policies. Mr President! Against this background, it is becoming increasingly difficult to understand the opportunistic shouting that emerges from the ranks of the fragmented opposition. Childlike and all-fact belief in debt recovery and lobby politics without the slightest overall picture or offering a credible alternative will certainly be supported at the edge of the market. In addition to the past, however, we must also be able to look to the future. Every basic Finn knows what the price of responsible decisions has been. In time, however, history — ultimately — will put the Sipilä government and its achievements in its proper place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u259	Mr President! The city centre has promised to put Finland in shape. Now we are doing what we have promised in the elections. Our society needs reforms so that we will have opportunities and afford to care for the weaker and those in need, that is, all of us. In the long term, our goal has been to secure services throughout the country, while at the same time looking at the whole package of services. Ways to think need to be redesigned and ways of making things more flexible. The change must be dealt with with with courage and a desire for reform. Local government finances will be strengthened next year through a number of decisions. Tax base changes will be fully replaced by municipalities and new tasks will not be transferred to municipalities without full funding. The Government will strengthen the confidence of municipalities in the functioning of the state in order to complete the major reforms together. Overall, government measures will strengthen the local government finances by around EUR 40 million next year. Reductions on the basis of the competitiveness agreement and the transfer of income support to Kela reduce central government participation. In addition, there are additions to the cost-sharing review and the compensation for tax losses. I hope that the Government will monitor the impact of the Competitiveness Pact on local government finances. The overall impact on municipalities can be very different, which is why monitoring is particularly important. In Ylivieska, for example, the impact of the competitiveness agreement and the Kela transfer have been negative, so that spending savings have been slightly lower than central government cuts. The regional reform will shape the tasks of municipalities in the future. Now we are at a point where it is important for each municipality to reflect on the role of the new municipality. In some areas, the reform does not have much effect, as the social and health sector and the tasks transferred to the provinces have already been carried out by joint municipal authorities or other cooperative bodies, but other municipalities have more changes. Overall, the impact is more on thinking methods than on actual activities. In Ylivieska and neighbouring municipalities, it is our experience that the transfer of operations to a separate joint municipal authority has freed up the resources of decision-makers to carry out the other functions of the municipality. Of course, the situation brought about by the change had to be adjusted for a while. The municipality of the future has an important role to play in promoting local identity and democracy and increasing vitality. Promoting business life, planning and land use, as well as decisions on transport, affect the vitality of regions and municipalities. There will be more time to build a municipality that looks like itself, and it is worth taking up. A total of EUR 100 million has been set aside for the Government’s key project to digitise public services during 2016-2018. Ten cross-sectoral projects are currently under way. For example, Kärki project money is used to implement the national income register, the electronic housing register and the digital self-care service. Personally, I am very pleased that the development of the national service architecture is proceeding as planned. The CAPA programme will end next year. The draft budget includes a budget of EUR 27.5 million for the completion of the programme and for the accession of the deployment phase. I am also happy about the Government’s brisk grip on taking the pilot action forward, which has taken steps forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u260	Mr President! As the social welfare reform progresses, health care expenditure is transferred from the responsibility of the municipalities to the regions. For four years I have been the marketing manager of the town of Valkeakoski, and I know that municipalities are almost desperately looking for ways to specialise and seek both companies and new residents. Now that the social welfare reform changes this field completely, many municipalities should consider specializing in the services and housing of honorary citizens or senior citizens. It offers a whole new opportunity, and when it is accompanied by this trend, which is now quite clearly visible, that smaller dwellings, ready-made small detached houses, can be introduced on the turnkey principle, it does offer many municipalities an excellent opportunity to specialise in good service so that new residents and senior citizens can receive good service.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u261	Mr. Speaker! Indeed, regional reform means that the social welfare and health services are transferred from the responsibility of the municipalities to the regions. Within these there are two very significant items of expenditure for the municipalities, which were always somewhat frightened by the municipality at the end of the autumn, namely the announcement of a further bill on child welfare and special care. They were always big bills, and I'm sure they are today. Now that they are gone and the whole of the war is removed from the responsibility of the municipalities, the municipalities are in a new situation. Of course, their main task is education, it takes up more than half of the future municipality's budget and it is extremely important. It is very predictable economically, and it is already in time to know how many children will come to early education, how much to school in the autumn. The budget can be measured correctly and there will be no surprises, as the birth rate and migration to the municipality are assessed. This creates stability in the finances and activities of municipalities. In parallel, a policy of vitality will then become more and more important and will be a very wide-ranging field of work and extremely important. Now that the government wisely relaxes and increases confidence in municipal local democracy, the capacity of municipalities to operate in this sector, in vitality policy, housing, livelihoods will be strengthened, and that is the real strengthening of democracy. While the economy is now getting stronger in the municipalities, at least at the moment, it will increase democracy, local decision-making power, and it is therefore good that, for example, group-size legislation should:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u262	Mr President! Every once in a while, when discussing whether it is appropriate for a Member of Parliament to act as a municipal decision-maker, I personally at least feel that it is beneficial in both directions. When you act as a municipal decision-maker, this parliamentary term finds that it is much more comfortable to go to the municipal council to discuss the budget of the year when you do not have to explain the increase in obligations or the removal of funds from the municipality. So we have acted according to the Government Programme, and the local government finances have been strengthened. In addition to the financial aspect, legislation has developed favourably. For example, through the Land Use and Building Act, the dismantling of standards can lead to greater growth in planning. In any case, taking decision-making powers to the local level is entirely to be welcomed. However, it is not appropriate to become careless because there are a lot of factors involved in the social and regional reform that may be at risk in terms of the local government's financial position. In particular, care must be taken not to place an unreasonable mass of property on the back of the municipalities by the province. This may, in a bad case, mean a big bill for a municipality that is already wrestling with an unprofitable property stock.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u263	Mr President! In the preparation of the major social and regional reform, the role and tasks of the municipality have been discussed since this reform. There have been comments or speeches about the truncated or flower-wetting system, or whatever the term has been said, and it may have been asked whether the municipalities will remain of what significance. Municipalities will continue to play a major role in the future and in particular — the municipality is one of the cornerstones of our welfare society and the basic unit of democracy. The municipality has been considered in the past years in such a way that it is mainly a service machine or a service factory, but the municipality is much more. Now that the tasks of social welfare and health care are transferred to the provincial level, the municipality can focus on those issues which in practice also have decision-making powers, the real decision-making powers. In this way, the role of vitality issues will be emphasised considerably. In the current situation, for example, the decision-making powers of an individual municipality with regard to special care, which represents a significant amount of expenditure, are very limited. In practice, the municipal council and the municipal government are only thinking about how to make enough money to pay for special medical care.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u266	Mr President! Although the government is still in debt with a budget deficit of EUR 5.6 billion next year, the situation in the municipalities has improved significantly during this parliamentary term compared to the last parliamentary term, as has already been said several times today. According to estimates by the Ministry of Finance, the impact of these measures by Parliament on local government finances was indeed EUR 1.1 billion negative during the last parliamentary term; on the other hand, this year the government's actions have had a positive impact of EUR 250 million, and next year it will have an impact of around EUR 40 million — that is, almost EUR 300 million already in total over these two years. The Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities also agrees with these estimates. Mr President! Municipalities have extensive autonomy and can make a significant contribution to the development of their future vitality through their own actions. This report by the Committee on Finance, too, has highlighted the active industrial policy of the municipalities themselves and its importance. It will provide them with more jobs and tax revenues and thus be able to better finance their services. And as the representatives of Kankaanniemi and Mäkelä have already pointed out in their own speeches, in addition to state subsidies and tax compensations, the conditions for municipalities to operate during this parliamentary term have been improved, for example by streamlining land-use regulation. It enables municipalities to develop their economic policy in a manner appropriate and appropriate to local conditions. It must also be stressed that this is precisely an opportunity, not an obligation to change previous practices in individual municipalities. We can therefore talk about an option that municipalities can take advantage of as they wish.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u267	Mr President! The regional and social reform must be carried out in order to be able to secure Finnish welfare services and also to secure the long-term economy of the municipalities. It is, of course, easier to secure the finances of municipalities under the conditions of the current government than it was in the past. The present Sipilä Government has refrained from imposing new obligations on municipalities without funding. This is a good direction, and I strongly support this. The financial position of the municipalities as a whole is now strengthened. This is an essential change in the continuing cuts in the central government shares of municipalities during the previous parliamentary term and the narrowing of the financing base. Now that the general economic trend is turning, which strengthens the income base of municipalities through taxation, there is much better prospects for the local government economy in the coming year and years than in the past. Mr President! In the process of regional and social reform, Uusimaa faces a double challenge. Uusimaa must be looked at as a whole so that the strong cities in the region, Helsinki, Espoo and Vantaa, are involved in Uusimaa as a whole, but at the same time we must be able to ensure regional representativeness and the development of Uusimaa as a whole at the future regional administration. We have a very big double challenge here, but I believe that we will be able to cope with this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u268	Mr. Speaker! Here there are two opposition representatives, representatives Myller and Semi, who are concerned about the local economy and these important issues. It would be very interesting to know when the Social Democrats have promised to tear this regional reform to shreds after they come to power in 2019 or at some point, which is the model of the Social Democrats' regional reform or social reform that you are offering to replace. During the last parliamentary term, a municipal model was built, and it ran into the Constitution. Have you now found a model that implements savings, implements good services, strengthens democracy and fits in with the constitution? This is a very important issue. When the minister is here, I will ask how the government intends to represent him. The financial reform mentioned by Mr Töllkin, i.e. the financing and central government contribution reform, will be launched. Have we thought about that yet? I think it would be very appropriate to have this reform already in this parliamentary term and, in fact, to start immediately, because it is certainly expected in the municipalities and this situation and change is so drastic, which will come about. Of course, the regional funding model is also important, and I would like the government to go ahead with planning the regional tax, because it only brings democracy to this. The second issue is this respectable impact of the Competitiveness Pact and its follow-up. We know that, for example, a city in Turku is losing a considerable amount because of this kiky agreement. How do you do that?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u269	Let us give the answers to the honourable Members, Mrs Myller and Mr Semi, then perhaps Mr Kankaanniemi's reply, then Mr Mäkelä's statement and then the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u270	Mr President! I am in no way convinced that any savings will be made in this government model, so perhaps they will not be worth it for the rest of us now. Secondly, I am not convinced in any way that self-government in this province model will take place. Secondly, I know that most of the feedback received by the government is based on the fact that first we should implement the social welfare system and then see what else is being taken into this provincial administration. In the Socialist model, these are the principles by which we are building our own social model so that we do not get involved in the administration but go ahead.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u271	Mr President! With regard to the question of how to develop the provinces and how to move forward, I think, in the same way as Mr Myller, that first we should have made a mess and solved the problems there, and that is the line taken by the Left Alliance. But then there is a personal view of regional reform — I have not even received the support of all my fellow parties — the fact that I see to a large extent that we should see that when we have different good, successful municipalities with jobs and others, then around them we would begin to build a larger province and regional government. And even the number of provinces should be reduced to a maximum of eight, could be less, because in my opinion it will be possible to secure better opportunities for residents of those regions to receive local services and other similar services, and also to secure in a way the development of the environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u272	Mr. Speaker! Of course, Mr Myller's reply did not at all determine what kind of social model you have, if you simply wanted to carry out the war, how different it is from the model that came into contact with the Constitution at the end of the last parliamentary term. If it is based on a municipality, i.e. municipalities are paying, but the regions are large — representative Semi is already talking about eight areas — so it inevitably encounters the constitutional problem that municipalities have no influence over decision-making but have a duty to pay. And this is what we ran into last season. In other words, the Socialist model should now be brought into the debate genuinely and perfectly so that it can be seen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u275	Mr President! In this debate on the differentiation of social and regional models or the joint promotion, I say that I think it is a little artificial that they should somehow be differentiated. I see no problem in taking them forward at the same time, of course it is laborious and requires a lot of preparatory work, but these things can well go on at the same time. This regional tax, which Mr Kankaanniemi mentioned, is certainly the future, and it must go in some way, but it is unfortunately not possible to do so now. But that province structure itself can be built, and this is how the government works and how it works. To this end, it has to be said, with the sound of a deep chest voice from municipal policy, that the role of the municipal decision-maker is not going to be very easy in the future. In the local economy throughout the country, with the exception of perhaps the largest growth centres, the situation is such that the pessimist will not be disappointed. In the next few decades, only a weak increase in tax revenues, an ageing population and the correction of mold schools, and so-called service network solutions, in other words, the reduction of services, can be seen. This is the practical reality, and even if it is not so gloomy, it is our job here in Parliament to create conditions for municipalities to operate, to create opportunities instead of restrictions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u276	Minister Vehviläinen. - I think it'll take two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u277	Mr President! First of all, this preparation for state aid reform. I agree that it should definitely be put in place during this parliamentary term and that it should make such a system of state participation in the new municipality and move forward. In the same way, I also think of this right to taxation in the provinces, that it was also in the line of 5 April last year that we were going to carry out such a comprehensive study of it and that it will also be put in motion during this parliamentary term. Then I will say my personal opinion that the report must be genuine, sufficiently broad and preferably also so that it goes there in 2019, when those provinces have already started and see how it works. Still a personal view: I consider the changes to the tax system to be so far-reaching that I think it would also be good for all parliamentary parties to be involved in it, for example in the form of a steering group. I think this is important for everyone to be involved in this work. Let me now turn to this question about this Socialist model. To put it bluntly, I do not know it very well and I am not very familiar with it — I am sorry, Mrs Myller, but I do not think it is very clear, nor have you presented it here in the Chamber of Parliament. As far as the issue of social security is concerned, there are critical comments in the feedback to the opinion, even with regard to regional reform, but then there was not much of a view that only social security should be done and that the other tasks of the regions should not be carried out, so that the remit actually received broad support there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u278	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would ask those Members who wish to put a question to the minister present to register by pressing the P button and standing up. I would ask the representatives to address the question to the relevant Minister for Sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u279	Congressman Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u280	Mr President! We are dealing with the government's proposal for next year's budget in an unclear situation. It seems that the government does not agree with the image of the economy and the necessary measures. The Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, has warned against further savings of up to EUR 1 to 2 billion in the mid-term review. On the other hand, Prime Minister Sipilä has said that there is no need for further surgery. In addition to the apparent disunity of the government, confusion has arisen as to the timing of the spending limits. The spending limits should be held in March, but the government has decided to postpone the time for municipal elections over April. The situation has also surprised the long-standing Minister for Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment of Erkki Virta, who said that decisions cannot always be passed over the elections. Since the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance are not present, I ask the Prime Minister, Mr Soin, why has the spending limits bar been moved over the municipal elections, and is there a need for further cuts of EUR 1 or EUR 2 billion?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u281	Mr President! I believe in the politics of this government. I believe that we will follow the government programme. We also intend, Mr Arhinmäki, to take up that game, unlike you: you are committed to a programme,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u282	Let me now ask those Members who wish to ask a supplementary question to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u283	Mr President! The government's budgetary policy can be summed up in one sentence: taking from the poor and giving to the rich. Let me give you an example: the government cuts the income of students by a quarter, i.e. almost EUR 90 per month. Students are already one of the largest groups of low incomes, and a large proportion of students live below the poverty line. The SDP doesn't approve of surgery. At a time when the government is cutting more than EUR 120 million from students, it has decided to give the same amount of money to high-income entrepreneurs through an inefficient and costly reduction in entrepreneurial activity, which even the government's own proposal describes as weak in terms of growth and employment. So I ask the Prime Minister’s deputy: why do you take from the poor and give to the rich? Now can you promise me that there won't be any more surgeries next spring? Yes or no, Deputy Prime Minister Soini?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u284	Mr President! I knew this question would come. I list them — you say there have been cuts, and it is true, there have been cuts — what has been done, for the low incomes, a number of solutions that improve their condition: family carers' holidays are secured, family carers' fees are increased, the guarantee pension is increased twice, the indexation of income support is maintained, and it is transferred to Kela, the Yle-tax is abolished from 300,000 low incomes. Then you say nothing about high incomes. The salaries of ministers have been cut by 7%, unlike, for example, the remuneration of MP Sanna Marin.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u285	Mr President! Minister Soini, the fact is that this government's policy is leading to an increase in child poverty, an increase in pensioner poverty, an increase in old age poverty, and now this time of spending limits is an absolutely essential issue. You, Minister Soini, said before the elections that poor people cannot, cannot and cannot afford to operate. And yet you make the biggest cut in history, for example, in student support. You're taking a quarter away from low-income students. Mr President! The Minister referred here to the fact that there would be some technical problems in that, which is why the spending limits argument cannot be held before the elections. An hour ago, an official from the Ministry of Finance has confirmed that there is no technical obstacle to holding a spending limits argument at the exact time it has been in previous years, before the municipal elections. If that is the case, can you now admit that the decision to transfer the spending limits to
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u286	Mr President! We have discussed this matter within the government, and I do not know who your source is and which official it is. We have been informed by the Supreme Director of the Ministry of Finance that this time in which the government has now arrived is good and right.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u287	Mr President! This is a public document. In a case published an hour ago, Chief Mäkinen of the Budget Department states that technically the negotiations on the spending limits could take place during the election week. But using these very arguments on the municipal elections, the government has made the decision to transfer you to the spending limits bar over the municipal elections. And now this raises a big question. Once you have already said that low incomes cannot, cannot and cannot afford to operate, and yet you are making the biggest cut in history to study aid, the citizens will stay and ask that this is not just happening in the same way. I would like to ask again: are you finally admitting that the decision to transfer spending limits and possible additional cuts from low-income citizens over municipal elections is a matter of political consideration and there is no technical reason behind it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u288	Mr President! I answered Mr Marin's first question on the need for surgery. I believe that we will implement the government programme and there will be no need for further cuts. I hope that the results will make this possible, which is, of course, the objective of the whole government. Then: we do not have any kind of game in this regard, whether or not there is a municipal election. We want to prepare the presentations properly. We also want to take them through when we do, not like the last government that voted against its own proposals on the last parliamentary day.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u289	A supplementary question, Mr Kalli, Chairman of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u290	Mr President! The budget and the government programme that we are discussing here have led to increased stability in Finland, more predictability, and it is now very important that Parliament, with its own contribution, also increases confidence. Consumers' confidence is clearly higher than in many years, and it is therefore very important that this debate should not go ahead now, what will be in the context of the possible framework next spring — many cubes run in the Kokemäenjoki river before being there. That is why I ask the Prime Minister's deputy: do you believe that consumer confidence will continue to be strengthened as a result of the implementation of the budget under discussion, and do you consider it important that this kind of debate is now taking place, which anticipates what might possibly be in April?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u291	Mr President! Of course, it is up to the opposition to challenge, and believe me, I have experience of it. As far as this is concerned, as Mr Kalli, a long-standing distinguished representative of Parliament, the chairman of the Committee on Finance, has said, there are signs of rise. The Bank of Finland has announced that the recession is over — this is not a government announcement. But of course we must stick to stability, credibility, predictability, so that we can have more investment, so that we can have more employment. Then international politics will have a very strong impact on us. What is happening in the United States, what is happening in Asia, is very important. We depend on our exports, on our industry, and in this respect the government has taken excellent measures, including those that promote industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u292	Mr President! Over the past few days, many students have been in contact with the fact that this EUR 86 cut into the monthly student allowance is really hard for them, and there is a risk that the inheritance of education will increase and that many young people will continue to study longer as the economic situation becomes more difficult. This cutting from young people is cutting from the future of Finland. At the same time, almost EUR 200 million will be cut from vocational education and training — at a time when one in five young men are at risk of exclusion outside education or employment. These are very bad decisions that cut Finland’s faith and prospects for the future. Therefore, Mr Soini, the Prime Minister's Deputy Prime Minister, when the speeches made by Finance Minister Orpo are very worrying to many Finns that we are now cutting more from low incomes or education, I ask you: can you promise that the government will not make further cuts in training in addition to these tough decisions already taken in the spring?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u293	Mr President! As I announced earlier, the Finns of Finland are committed to the Government Programme and the Government's line. Our view is that we should go for the better, and then there will be no need for further cuts. If we go in a worse direction, then we'll look at it again, but I believe in doing this government. We have made difficult, hard decisions, it is part of this game, but we have also made a lot of decisions that have also benefited the low-income. Of course, as far as students are concerned, for example, there was a long-term desire for students to be covered by general housing allowance, and now that they do, that too is supposed to be a bad thing. There.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u294	Mr President! I understand that the opening question, which is a little rough, has also covered tax policy and, above all, adjustment. I would like to ask the Prime Minister about this. After all, we have a wide range of adjustments possible, as has been the case here with a lot of speculation, and the government has taken a very different line from the previous government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u295	Mr President! It is true that VAT is a tax which the hardiest of all hits on low incomes, which is repeated in every product, in every purchase decision, it derails and dries — and this is what the last government did. The corporate tax rebate, which I believe was hundreds of millions of euros, was also made by the previous government. I'm not crying about them, but I'll tell you what's really happened here. This government does not want to increase the burden on people with low incomes, poor people, students, disabled people by increasing VAT because it is the most destructive tax on low incomes
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u296	Mr President! However, if you look at the facts, during the previous government, poverty decreased, income differentials narrowed. If you look at the achievements of this government so far, the income gap has increased and next year's tax policy will increase them even further. At the same time, you have operated on poor people, students, unemployed people, pensioners, families with children, sick people. This despite the fact that you, Mr Soini, the Prime Minister's deputy, said before the elections: 'In Finland, a million people live on the income of less than EUR 1000. Social justice means that these people will not be cut." You have operated on all these people. My question now is — since you have defined honesty as your most important political value: will you cut even more next spring from these groups?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u297	Mr President! I am delighted that Mr Arhinmäki's question was one of the facts: honesty is indeed one of my fundamental values. Then what happened during the last government — while you were there, while you were driving: 100,000 unemployed were a four - year balance. Minister Lindström will probably be able to say how much unemployment has fallen during this government, but these figures need to be accurate in this box. Then, Mr President,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u298	Mr President! Mr Kalli, whom I very much appreciate, pointed out that we should not be talking about next spring, that it is harmful. But why are we talking about next spring? Not because of what the opposition has said, but because this debate was launched by the Minister of Finance, Mr Orpo. The Minister for Finance, Mr Orpo, said that next spring these data, which now exist, will face cuts of between 1 billion and 2 billion. I suppose it will give some cause for concern whether the budget that is now being approved will make any sense if, after six months — after the municipal elections — the government takes a new decision to cut. Then the Prime Minister said no surgery. The difference between zero and 2 billion is bigger than the difference in size of a mouse, this is at least the difference in size. Now, for two days, we have been trying to ask Minister Soin when we know the positions of the centre and the coalition, what your position is with the current economic forecast.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u299	Mr President! This is good now that we have these horse-sized differences. Yesterday, Mr Harakka said that Sitra’s 350 million or someone is the size of a hair, so that there is still a little loose here. The Minister of Finance, Orpo, is not here. I'm not answering for him. I will reply on my own behalf when I was asked that I believe in the policy of this government and the implementation of the government's programme in such a way that there is no need for further cuts. I'm ready to tell you this a lot of times. I also believe that there are grounds for optimism. Employment has started to grow. In practice, tax revenue will grow and the economy will grow. For the first time since the collapse of Lehman Brothers, it seems to be a very good thing that the economy is growing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u300	Mr President! The debate on the economy has now taken place here yesterday, and it seems that today will continue. We should now also remember what has been said by the opposition about the economy before the elections. Before the elections, the SDP, among others, said that they would be prepared to make savings and cuts of EUR 3 plus 1 billion in the coming parliamentary term. At the time, Mr Rinne, the Minister for Finance, before the elections, said that cuts and savings of EUR 3 billion must be made right at the beginning of the parliamentary term. But what happened when the finance minister, Rinne, moved into the opposition? Now there's no surgery.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u305	Mr President! Let's take a thing like this, after having come to that council for quite a few years, that we have an exceptional situation that now the municipal elections have been moved here to April — they were actually scheduled to be last autumn. I believe that there is also opposition approval and that these matters have been jointly agreed upon. The government's mid-term dispute has nothing to do with municipal elections, nothing to do with how you run it. I understand that you are running, but things have to be done, and they are better done well prepared so that you do not have to vote against your own proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u306	With regard to this question, the last supplementary question, Mr Rinne.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u307	Mr President! There are spending adjustments in the Socialist option, and the alternative budget is worth reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u308	Mr President! It is clear that there are elements in your alternative budget that are good. For example, I very much like the fact that you did not want to increase the cost level of industry. That is the right policy, and the government did not want to add it either. But I'm still interested in this Sitra robbery, 365 million, I guess, or what it was, a hair-sized difference. That's what I've been thinking about. For that I appreciate the Socialist Group and Mrs Rinnetta that you have made an alternative budget so that it can be weighed. But I will follow it with great precision when you have announced — here one after another has announced — which cuts you will cancel if you are in power. I urge all of these to remember and deep down until spring 2019.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u311	Next question, Mr. Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u313	Secretary of State Soini.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u314	Mr President! This question raised by Mr Haavisto is very serious. We had a meeting of EU foreign ministers on Monday in Brussels. This violence and the use of force were strongly condemned and appealed to Russia in the context of this matter. I also talked about this with the Prime Minister, who met the Russian Prime Minister in Oulu on the 9th of this month. Our message has been crystal clear, especially through the suffering of women and children. It hurts my heart to see what they do to people there, and of course Finland is involved in all kinds of help and pain relief, where we can be. This is also a very big setback for the international community, for all actors, if not through concerted action.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u315	I would now ask those representatives who wish to ask supplementary questions to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u316	Mr President! Another aspect of this situation in Aleppo and Syria is that when we have followed the development of the war and now the latest events in East Aleppo, we see that the rules of war have been violated. Many people think that everything is allowed in wars, but we are well aware here that the use of chemical weapons, atrocities against civilians, atrocities against arrested or disabled soldiers, for example, is prohibited under international agreements, according to the Geneva Conventions. It would be very important for a small country such as Finland to keep these things on the table and to bring out these rules of war again, including those responsible for crime. Has Finland had such speeches, and have you, Minister, raised these issues?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u317	Mr President! These are very important issues and we have said, and I myself have said many times, that war criminals must be held accountable. It is rather unfortunate, however, that we have countries, mainly major powers, which such war crimes can't be brought to court, because they are practically in the hands of some UN Security Council to block the fact that these issues are being dealt with there. This is very regrettable, but we are keeping it on the table. You brought up these chemical weapons. That is the very essence of the issue. Yes, the credibility of the West suffered in 2013. Among other things, President Obama announced that the use of chemical weapons is a red line, a red line that cannot be crossed. What did Finland do when chemical weapons were destroyed? In my opinion, our Finnish company, Ekokem, participated and took responsibility, and we have destroyed these chemical weapons in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u318	Irade the Talman! Rwanda, Srebrenica, Darfur och nu Aleppo. Det internationalella samfundet står än en gång tandlöst med heiderna i fickorna. Flera gånger i historien har vi sagt: Aldrig mer igen. Men är står vi igen. Det är uppenbart att det är frågan om krigsbrott, det som har het i Syrien, och för stunden har tiotuseentals civila ringats in i en snarara som drasåt hela tiden.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u319	Mr President! This is an important question. In Europe, we have discussed quite a number of times whether the EU could be united and be united. Unfortunately, all the reform measures in the UN, for example, have come across the fact that these permanent Member States do not want anyone else there. The United Kingdom and France, who have been there, too, often speak out in favour of European cooperation, but still want to keep their own stools. And yes, I agree with Mrs Wallin — you listed these Rwandans, Srebrenicas and others who are terrible monuments to us — that the international community, including us, has not received any.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u320	Mr President! Five years — is it five years long or short when Finnish adults and children look at what is happening in Aleppo day after day? There is no neighborhood in Aleppo that has not been hit, there are no civilians that have been spared. And now we are once again asking in Question Time: do we Finns have any responsibility for what is happening there — quite close to us after all? In that respect, the explanations that year after year we are blinding ourselves and we think that politics does not have the means to intervene in this situation are simply no longer enough. I really hope that the government will raise this issue in international arenas, how long we will be able to close the eyes of the peoples of Europe to the fact that politics
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u321	Mr President! I will talk about this at an appropriate and inappropriate time, always in private meetings, most recently with the French Foreign Minister when he visited, and I will say this to everyone. How does Finland participate? We have a lot of volunteers, we do, private people donate. And you can certainly believe, Mr Kiuru, that the citizens' feedback that this will become will be taken seriously. There's gonna be a lot of it. I understand that some 500 e-mails have been received from individual citizens — now that the number of days may be a little behind — regarding this very issue. That Finland will play its part in this. The peace and help of Aleppo are not up to us, but unfortunately they are not resolved by us alone either.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u322	Mr President! Everyone sees that the East Aleppo government, with Russia's support, is going to win. At the same time, at least in view of the population's priorities, the Syrian Government will achieve its objectives and a military solution will emerge. The European Union has been rather powerless in this regard. We have not been able to influence this very much. But after this military action, there will be a phase of reconstruction, and my question relates to it. Has there been a debate within the Union on the way in which, in connection with the reconstruction of these future transitional solutions, this Union support will be strongly conditional both on the detection of war criminals and on the fact that the transitional solutions will also take account of the role of minorities?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u323	Mr President! Indeed, I hope that after the war there will be peace and reconstruction. It is clear that this reconstruction effort will also cost us Europeans. It must be understood and accepted here that this will happen. Then, of course, the dialogue between the major powers is now in such a difficult situation that the Obama administration in the USA is on the way and the Trump administration has not yet arrived. Here is such an intermediate state in a way that the U.S. is currently missing an active contribution. I believe that we will find a solution to this. However, as you said, Mr Vanhanen, it must also be conditional on the aid provided, so that those responsible for war crimes are not allowed into it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u324	Mr President! The situation in Syria and Aleppo is shocking. The situation is a human disaster. The killing of civilians in Aleppo and the delay in evacuation are particularly shocking. Mr President! The conflict in Syria is a complex one and its solution is not easy. The Syrian Government, supported by Russia, has committed shocking acts and war crimes. On the other hand, the opposition, consisting of scattered groups, including extremist groups, has also committed atrocities. Mr President! What Finland can do, what the EU can do, is limited, but I hope that we will do everything we can. But I would like to ask Foreign Minister Soin: what is Finland's contribution to humanitarian aid in Syria, and do we have the capacity to increase humanitarian aid to Syrian civilians?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u325	Mr President! Fortunately, the evacuations have now been made a little better. Of course, it is not much comfort to the dead and it is not enough, but it is. Then what you said about these other parties. Yes, there are extremist Islamic ISIS, there have been Nusra, who knows what these underprivileged gangs, who have also been guilty of violence, that is, this side exists. What is most shocking about all of this is that ordinary people who have neither part nor lot in either side of the force are the ones who are paying for this monstrosity. Of course, the government is also prepared to consider financial contributions to humanitarian aid and reconstruction. That is our human duty.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u326	By way of exception, I now grant you a representative. A brief speech to the mute.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u327	Mr President! Just that there is no misunderstanding on an important issue: Finland, of course, is always concerned about the conditions for humanitarian aid in Syria, too, with its own contribution. We are involved in the joint efforts of the EU. Today, I signed a decision to increase our support for the transfer appropriations in order to alleviate the difficult humanitarian situation. In January, together with the three UN relief agencies, we will be coordinating a plan, a meeting that will specifically focus on more effective aid in Helsinki, bringing together the wisdom of the Nordic countries, and certainly all the time in all relocation situations we will see how we can help the Syrian conflict in particular with our own modest contributions. Of course, if we get to the reconstruction stage, then, as Mr Soini said, it will be a place for even greater reflection and also for this conditionality.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u328	President! This war in Syria has not ended by war and the situation is not over yet. Thank you very much for the negotiation process led by the foreign ministers of the United States and Russia. I appeal to the Government that Finland, above all within the EU, but also within the UN framework, is working to find, contribute to the solution with its own contribution, both in terms of humanitarian aid and in terms of monitoring the implementation of this ceasefire agreement, and is also prepared to invest in the readiness to monitor this with Finnish measures.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u329	Mr President! Yes, a long parliamentary experience and a wise speech will always cheer you up — thank you, Mr Kanerva. After all, we also have European structures, the OSCE, which has carried out this kind of monitoring in a rather difficult and difficult situation in Eastern Ukraine. It is, of course, absolutely essential that these great powers are involved in this, and it is absolutely essential and wonderful that we have access to this. We have access to the debate — I understand that you have also spoken with Minister Lavrov and briefly with John Kerry at that OSCE meeting in Hamburg. This is exactly the kind of activity that all Finnish influences, ministers, parliamentarians and non-governmental organisations, must do.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u330	On this question, I would like to add a supplementary question to the original author, Mr Haavisto.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u331	Mr President! To Minister Soin: in several speeches, Mr Vanhanen, Mrs Wallin and others, the role of the European Union has been highlighted. If you look at this peace table, then the European Union will have a bit of an absence from it, we will not have an institutional role there, but at the same time the European Union will be reconciled with the role of the payer of reconstruction. In the Syrian refugee crisis, we have been a great recipient of refugees and also a humanitarian donor. I would have asked Minister Soin: what opportunities do you see that when the peace process comes and the reconstruction process comes, the European Union could play a more active role in that, possibly even at the peace table? At the moment, I do not think it is entirely fair that we are paying for this crisis, but our political role is very small.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u332	Mr President! Mr Haavisto, the special assistant to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, speaks wisely, and you are also familiar with this EIB, the Institute for Peace, which may be one of these instruments, even if it is not a direct EU organisation. Yes, I admit that although Staffan de Mistura has been much of a guard here and has done her best, the EU and the Member States of the European Union must take on the fact that there is no better result, nothing can be done about it — there is no explanation for the continuing plight of civilians of months like this. But it must also be understood that Finland is a five million people who cannot solve these issues alone but can be involved in solving them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u333	Next question, Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u334	Mr President! Today, a recent study by the National Institute for Health and Welfare on the poverty of families with children was published. It revealed that child poverty in Finland has turned up again: more than one in ten children are currently living in poverty in Finland. The most dangerous of all is poverty in the families of babies and young children. The study also revealed that the livelihoods of families with children have been weakened by insufficient child allowances and parental money, as well as government cuts. This government's cutting policy is particularly damaging for low-income families with children, and these small-scale government projects are not enough to reverse this trend. Mr Rehula, how does the government intend to reduce the growing poverty of families with children, especially if further cuts are to be made in the spring?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u335	Mr President! Firstly, the study by THL to which you refer shows that in this decade there has been no change in the increase in child poverty. Instead, that study recognizes that even a high education, for example, that is supposed to guarantee a better livelihood, is not the support and security of a family with children. Secondly, you ask what measures the government has taken. We are investing in services from the perspective of the day-to-day running of families with children — in the way that the family would receive support, in the way that in early childhood education, in the context of school, children would receive the best possible education and education, as well as the social security they need. This is more than just a matter of income.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u336	I would now ask those representatives who wish to ask supplementary questions to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u337	Mr President! Yes, this study clearly showed that this trend is now changing in a worse, worrying direction. I am surprised that the government does not take this seriously when it comes to problems relating to the livelihood of low-income families with children. This week Parliament has also voted on the transfer of students to the general housing allowance. It is a reform that benefits students who live alone on low incomes in particular, but it weakens the position of family students. Their livelihoods with this reform will fall. At the moment, Finland is the only Nordic country that does not take into account the familyisation of students in student support, and student families are already very low-income families. Mr Grahn-Laasonen and Mr Rehula, the representatives of the government parties have been in this Chamber all autumn suggesting that they are in favour of an increase in the number of guardians to study aid. Are the ministers ready now and today to give the family students a direct answer to the question: [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President : now we are lucky to have more than 15 seconds to ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u338	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u339	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u340	I am not happy to come to the question with my own speech, but if it takes too long, it has to be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u341	Mr President! You claim that the government is not taking it seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u342	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u343	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u344	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u345	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u346	Mr President! Many families with children are preparing for Christmas. Christmas is about giving gifts and getting gifts. Many families with children today live in well-being poverty in Finland. According to that study by THL, poverty among families with children is very often also linked to unemployment. It is also linked to temporary jobs that are everyday reality in families with children. The government has limited the right of unemployed families to subjective day care. This, in turn, weakens the ability of mothers and families to seek full-time employment, to go into training and to get away with it. I would now like to ask, Minister Ruhula: do you really intend to strengthen now, to direct transfers to families with children so that this poverty in families with children can be eradicated?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u347	Mr President! I consider the situation of families with children to be a very important topic for debate in this House at this time of Christmas, and that is something we need to focus on in particular. And on this very issue of early childhood education, which emerged, the legislation ensured that if there is a social basis, i.e. a child benefit, then early childhood education takes place on a full-time basis. But I particularly wanted to say about these actions when they have been asked that one of the very central things that is important to families with children is to engage in a hobby. Just a short while ago, I appointed a hobby moon for the group to think about, that is, when there are many obstacles to engaging, such as expensive costs, how to ensure that every child and young person can have a hobby. It would be an act in which there could certainly be broad cooperation across sectors, including civil society, sports clubs, cultural players and so on.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u348	Mr President! Minister Ruhula, you have just said that the government is investing in services in order to support families with children with low incomes. However, the government has cut early childhood education and group sizes are growing, and this is certainly a reason to weaken support for the growth of children. After all, we in Finnish society have always been proud that everyone has access to good education regardless of their background, but these government cuts to the entire educational path are those that make access to high-quality early childhood education more difficult for those children and, on the other hand, for their entire study path to which these cuts are directed. I would have asked Minister Grahn-Laasonen: how will the government ensure that education is not unequaled in Finnish society?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u349	Mr President! It is a central philosophy of the Finnish education system and it is a basic idea, which means that we want to ensure a high-quality, free education for every child and young person in Finland. It has been our national pride for the whole hundred years of our history for a long time, and that is something we want to invest in, in particular, in the future. These economic times are tight. It is visible in central government finances, it is visible in local government finances — we will not get anywhere from it, nor did the previous government. But now there is a positive tone in the economy, and education is also being developed more than one can say for decades. There's a lot going on out there: There are new curricula in force in primary schools, it is a major reform and it is backed up by the reform of teacher training and the contribution to the ability and renewal of teachers and their support for vocational development, as well as at all levels of education — I could go and list here, it is a long time — from early education onwards, the reform of vocational education is a big whole. In other words, material work is carried out in a tight, difficult economic environment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u350	Mr President! It is clear that poverty in families with children must be taken seriously. I'm sure that's what we all think. But I would like to stress now that very much of the impact on the well-being of families with children, on coping with everyday life, has on the services offered to families with children throughout our system. For example, I consider the strengthening of home services to be extremely important as a help in coping with everyday life, and I know from the studies that home services, if they are provided in a reasonable way and when they are needed, will, for example, prevent detention. Yes, the development of the service system is very important, and our top project, the Lappe project, is excellent in developing this service package, which matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u351	Mr President! I will respond to Mr Essayah's question in part, and this relates to Mr Paloniemi's question: We've been talking about the future here today and we've been digging through the past. In the evidences of how the conditions and opportunities of municipalities for service production have been met from an economic point of view, this government's credit in these respects will take a long time to compare with history. Local government finances have been strengthened in a way that has been able to contribute to the maintenance of services at least at the current level, or to invest in home services for families with children, such as the City of Vantaa. There are these municipalities and cities in Finland who have acted in the direction of spending money on preventive work, so that then the heavier the service is not needed. The central government shares of municipalities are:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u352	Mr President! It is very worrying that poverty in families with children has increased. That is something that we should all worry about and ensure that our children have a good future. We know that bread lines have grown and there are more and more family members. It is good that the government has invested in services and, for example, the home service for families is very welcome, but the services cannot be eaten. It is therefore very important that family income is taken care of and that family transfers or other necessary benefits, for example, are at a level that allows them to live and does not require them to continue to rely on income support in their daily lives. My question to the ministers is: what are you going to do to ensure that these benefits are at an adequate level and that the income is guaranteed for everyone?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u353	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u354	Mr President! One aspect of the debate and these issues has been, for example, concerns about early childhood education, day care, a situation in which a mother or father is in employment. The aim is to contribute to this, and through changes in, for example, early childhood education, day care, it will be ensured that the day care provision will continue to be available to people who need the child's day care. Yes, the legislation that was created and is in force allows for consideration, allows customisation, enables things that contribute to employment and employment. The best guarantee of living is that as many people as possible have jobs. As far as budget transfers are concerned, we are living in this situation according to what the government has agreed jointly. And the best part is,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u355	Mr President! It is very important for the parliamentary group and the government as a whole that every child can grow safely into adulthood and be a child safely. It is important for parents to have a job, to have a livelihood. Child poverty is a serious matter, but parents need a variety of services in their day-to-day lives, and it is excellent that there is a programme of child and family services combining very fragmented services and reforming services to meet the needs of many families. I would therefore like Minister Ruhula to tell me again what is the first thing to become of this top-level project. What are the first things to be seen in the everyday lives of families? I appreciate the work you do on that top project. It's a good job.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u356	Mr President! We have the Child Welfare Act as an example, which has been in force since 2007. It is written in the Child Welfare Act: the best interests of the child in all situations. Similarly, it is written that when there are municipalities that do not have all the skills and skills, the service needs of children in these municipalities must be taken care of as a whole. One of the most concrete issues in this respect is that these multi-professional — as is the term — entities of the various talents are assembled in such a way that municipal boundaries do not prevent the child from getting the services he needs in time. Another point is the much-speaked good practice — good practices and their multiplication are often mentioned here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u357	Mr President! The government makes a policy of income inequality: rich people get rich and low-income people get cut. This week the afternoon newspapers have told of a single mother who dares not heat the sauna because of growing costs. In food queues, the number of families with children has increased considerably, and at the same time the Internet is full of requests for help from deprived families so that at Christmas there is at least something to give to these children with children with children with children with low means. We are moving strongly towards a charitable society in which those with good income decide who gets and who is given. Minister, do you think this is the right direction?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u358	Mr President! If such a development is taking place, we must put a stop to that direction. That is why this government is trying to put, for example, the foundations of the social and health care services system in such a position that when that inequality development has been taking place, for example, with regard to the increase in health inequalities, as to whether the better-incomed or less-incomed, those health inequalities would not increase but narrow. We need the foundations fixed. Secondly, the argument that the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer: the student housing allowance system is changing so that students will be covered by the general housing allowance in the future, especially the low-income students will receive this change.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u359	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u360	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u361	We still have two brief questions to go over. Next question, Mr Hakanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u362	Mr President! Christmas is nearing, and so is the time for ham. However, there is a great threat to the frying of future Christmas hams, especially the cooking of domestic ham. The African swine fever, a virus that is not dangerous to man but is swine disease, has spread widely in the Baltic countries and also on the Russian side. The arrival of the virus for us here in Finland — either via tourists, permanent sausages, canned goods, hunting equipment, or by animals or wild boars — would be disastrous for our domestic pig production. The risk increases day by day that the disease may come to Finland. I would like to ask Mr Tiilikainen: in what way has this risk been prepared? What measures are being taken in preparation, and what financial risk analyses have also been carried out to combat the disease if one comes here?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u363	Mr President! That threat of African swine fever is very big for our food industry and, of course, for pigmeat production in particular, because if it were to spread to us, it would make it very difficult, if not completely, to export pork abroad from Finland, which is about to start. That is why everything must be done to combat the disease. The wild boar population, which is a potential vector of the disease, must be severely reduced. Wild boar hunting has been facilitated in many ways, further reforms are coming. In addition, possible wild boars must be prevented from coming into contact with farmed pigs or completely normal pigs, and measures are being taken here: double fences and bans on outdoor activities. But the greatest risk of all is that carefree tourists accidentally, unwittingly, carry those pathogens to us, and here, for example, that hunting trip.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u364	Ladies and gentlemen! This series of important questions in Question Time is also supplemented by an important question; I will give the floor to Mr Rinne, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u365	Thank you, Mr President. Now I hope the government can relax after this Question Time — and, Minister Soini, just relax. When you go through that state hall, you can see that the Christmas tree has been built. So Christmas is getting closer. We in the opposition have tried to make rather softer packages for the citizens rather than hard packages for the government. Christmas is at the door, and elves are also watching us here in Parliament. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Christmas means a little rest. After a tough year of politics, even hard differences of opinion, Christmas peace is in order. Therefore, on behalf of the entire opposition, I would like to thank the government for the past year and wish you all a peaceful Christmas time and a calming down. But since this is the last Question Time of this year and has not come to a very clear answer as to why the government is going to postpone this mid-term review of the municipal elections, I ask the government and especially the Prime Minister Soin because there has been extensive public feedback and inquiry about what will happen to Christmas: can you promise the Finns that Christmas will not be passed over the municipal elections — not over Easter, not over the municipal elections or over the Midsummer? Mr deputising for the Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a serious question.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u366	Deputy Prime Minister, can you respond?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u367	Mr President! I can answer and I am pleased that this is by far the best question you have asked Mr Rinne. Christmas isn't about to be moved. Christmas will continue to be a celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u368	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u369	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u370	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the Environment Committee's report YmVM 20/2016 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Chairman of the committee, Mr Hassi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u371	Mr President! This government proposal amends the waste water regulations for sparsely populated areas, which were originally adopted in 2004. Since then, these provisions and their deadline have already been amended twice and now for the third time. Originally, the deadline for updating the treatment of waste water from buildings built before 2004 to the current standards was 2014, then 2016, then March 2018, and now with this Government proposal it will be extended until the end of October 2019. Since 2004, an appropriate level of cleaning has been required for houses built in and after that year, i.e. these continuous changes apply to houses built before 2004 in sparsely populated areas. This change is based on the Government Programme. It exempts approximately 200,000 properties entirely from the obligation to improve waste water treatment until the property is sold or renovated so thoroughly that it can be compared to new construction. It is estimated that 66,700 properties are covered by the regulations, either in the groundwater area or within 100 metres of the water system. They will have to bring waste water treatment to a level consistent with current standards by the end of October 2019. The municipalities have had and still have the right to demand a higher level of cleaning, but after the adoption of this government proposal, this right only applies to new houses and old houses in so far as they are located in these specified areas and groundwater areas or not more than 100 metres from the water system. In other words, municipal environmental regulations on old buildings outside these limits will be excluded until the real estate is sold or renovated in depth. This will, of course, slow down the environmental objectives pursued by improving waste water treatment in sparsely populated areas. After all, the share of sparsely populated water bodies in phosphorus load has been estimated at around 13 % in 2014, and this is the second largest source of pollution after agriculture. For nitrogen, the load is lower, approximately 4%. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection notes that it may be a little difficult for the ordinary citizen to understand the rules now being amended because of this regional separation and therefore the need to pay particular attention to information. In fact, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is endeavouring, in its very thorough report, to open up as concretely as possible what is meant by this regulation. It is also possible to obtain an exemption from these requirements to improve the efficiency of waste water treatment, and the government's proposal will facilitate this possibility of deviation from current legislation. The current regulations require that the load is low and that the necessary cleaning level is costly and technically demanding. Now these deviations are turned into an alternative: if there is a significantly low load or if it becomes very expensive, there may be an exception. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention to the fact that a number of exceptions, in combination with the lack of clarity of regulation and flexibility of standards, may lead to a serious deviation from the waste water treatment obligations in Article 20 of the Constitution. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore proposed that these two conditions of derogation should be in force at the same time as alternatively. However, the committee maintained the alternative to this government proposal but stressed that the grounds for derogations were not intended to be applied on a large scale. The derogation is always discretionary and is granted only for a limited period and will cease to be valid if the reason for it ceases to be valid. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also wants to clarify in its report when the load can be considered to be significantly low. The committee notes, for example, that this may not be more than a property where two people live. If there are more than two residents and there is a water toilet, the load cannot be considered to be minimal, whether it is a permanent or leisure property. If, on the other hand, there is a leisure property and a dry toilet, as a general rule, the load may be considered to be significantly reduced, and if there is an outdoor privy and carrying water, this whole regulation does not apply. Of course, there is no need for exceptions if the basic cleaning requirement already laid down by the law is met. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also stresses in its report that the granting of derogations must not, for example, lead to a pollution risk for groundwater in water supply. The committee also notes that the specific problem is village-like, densely built areas further away from the shore, and expert hearings have shown that it is precisely these village agglomerations that have been a problem in practice when they contain uncleaned waste water and have caused odour and hygiene disputes. This is mainly the case of houses built in the 60s to 80s, where the sewage system is a mere well from which the pipeline leads to a ditch between neighbours. The Committee notes that waste water treatment is not only a question of combating eutrophication but also of preventing health damage directly to human beings. As I have already said, the committee stresses the need for the successful implementation of this law, for the existing guidelines and guides to be updated and for training and other advice to be organised in sufficient numbers across the country and for this national advisory activity to send a uniform message across the country, and for this to require considerable effort in advice and guidance, even because these solutions are property-specific. The committee also stresses that it is essential to ensure that the technical solutions used for cleaning work effectively. The committee continues to stress that these provisions are technologically neutral. The solutions may be based on the separation of toilet waste and grey water, which means that no waste water containing these toilet waste will be generated, or waste water will be taken separately into a sealed container, which will be emptied separately, or there will be a dry toilet, or, if all waste water is treated together, it may be an earthworming plant, a soil filtration plant or a small sewage treatment plant.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u372	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the committee, Mr Hassi, for a good presentation. The aim of this bill was to simplify and clarify these waste water issues, and the committee was undeniably faced with a challenging task. This has been the subject of discussion since 2004. The mission was difficult. There are two opposing points here, as it were, on a horizontal scale, on one side, environmental values, water protection and then on the other side, the acceptability and comprehensibility of legislation and these requirements: the public in many respects felt that the investment of thousands of euros was overcompensated. Now, in this government proposal, there is a balance between these two approaches, and the result is this. I believe that this will move forward and I hope that the public will now be informed that in the autumn of 2019 the equipment will be in the condition it should be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u373	Mr President! As I said during the debate on referrals to the law, it is right and reasonable that this bill, which alleviates the misery of people living in rural areas, should proceed. It is by no means a perfect performance. Reason only partially wins, but we still have to thank the government for the proposal and the committee's amendments. I hope that everyone in this Chamber can be as happy about this law as the Finns in Peru are: however, the government now moderates this sad law on waste water that has been worrying people in rural areas for years. One of our main objectives before the elections was to have reasonableness in this law. Mr President! I would like to express my surprise at the protest of the Green and Swedish People's Party. The countryside has always been inhabited, and today there is much less living than before. I do not understand the protest about the meth and the measuring points, when, in principle, this is merely a relaxation of the unfair law adopted by the previous government. When mistakes were not detected in time, they must be able to be corrected afterwards. The Socialist protest is also bizarre. In protesting, they are concerned about the inequality of citizens. Is it now at the heart of social democracy that, once mistakes have been made in the legislation and people have suffered from it, mistakes should not be corrected in terms of equity, but should be maximised so that other people suffer from it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u374	Mr President! This government proposal is quite problematic from the point of view of equality between citizens, the credibility of legislation and environmental governance, predictability and clarity, as well as the environment and health. As has already been said here, the original acts have been adopted in 2004 and have been amended in 2010, 2014 and, furthermore, this deadline for the implementation of the measures has been postponed several times. What we have said in our own protest that this puts citizens in a position of inequality is the same interpretation that has also been made by the Constitutional Committee in its own opinion. This is an attempt, as it says, to clarify and moderate this legislation. An important argument is that it is the records of the government programme, and we then had to grapple with them in that committee: once these entries have been made in the government programme, we will go. However, the committee unanimously stated that clarification has not been achieved. That is why the committee has opened up many things and tried to interpret what is meant by this law. However, in the committee's report, as you read, the committee stresses that changing the legislation again may, in practice, make it difficult for citizens to understand the legislation. The specific problem here is that the stricter regulations of municipalities are largely marginalized. Citizens are accustomed to certain types of legislation being implemented in certain municipalities, but once this law enters into force, these stricter regulations on environmental standards will be repealed. And this is also quite extraordinary in that, for example, there is a great deal of justification for municipalities to have the power to interpret — of course, there is no legislative power in the municipalities — that the decision-making power of the municipalities should be increased because the municipalities know what is best there. Now we are going in the other direction: we are taking away the power that the municipalities have already had. The municipality shall not decide that the basic cleaning requirement may be extended to agglomerations more than 100 metres from the beach or not in the groundwater area. Many experts drew attention to this because we have a lot of municipal centres with clean water wells and cesspools close together, and now there is a real fear that people’s health will be threatened in such urban areas. Indeed, I am surprised that such matters do not rely on municipalities and allow municipalities to decide what is best for health and the environment there. A lot of discussion also raised the question that, in this law, when these basic cleaning requirements are present on a property that is not more than 100 metres from the beach, whether that journey will then count from the discharge pipe from which the dirt water comes or whether it will be counted from the wall of the house. Here, quite a few experts — and I dare say that the majority of the members of the committee too — would have liked to have understood the matter so that the journey is calculated from the dismantling pipe, which is quite logical and natural, but this was not changed to the legislation. Then perhaps another speciality that remained here in the law is that when municipalities can grant these exceptions to those properties that are within this 100 - meter [100 m] distance or in the groundwater area, this entry into the law, the letter of the law, was very open to interpretation. That is what the committee in its own report has been trying to clarify and, in my opinion, for the better. In any case, however, the problem remains that very different interpretations in different municipalities can be made of the economic conditions that must exist in order to require this basic level of clean-up, and what kind of waste water is that in this situation? In fact, when the Social Democrats propose to reject this bill, it is precisely because the problematic issues that have been perceived as problems in implementing this legislation could already be corrected on the basis of the current law, when the municipalities had sufficient information on how to then provide information to the buildings and then give this information to the public in the right way. In fact, there has been no reason to go back and correct the legislation that is currently in force; on the contrary, we have put our citizens in a truly unequal position: those who have been rewarded, who have been kept waiting for us to criticise and complain enough here, we do not have to do anything. This is also relevant to such general law - abidingness. Officials have told us that, in some cases, citizens say that this will change, that we do not have to do anything. I would also like to stress that all the possibilities for rational action, including in matters which have been considered unreasonable at the moment, have been possible on the basis of this law.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u375	Mr President! The so-called waste water regulation now under discussion has a long history. Just because history is long doesn't mean it's very honorable. The regulation has been experienced and has been unreasonable to many of its destinations along its way. In most cases, the regulation has been found disproportionate in those very areas where its positive environmental impact would have been small, if not non-existent. Despite good intentions, the regulation has raised a number of problems and therefore the time for its entry into force has already been changed on two occasions. Now it's been 2018. The starting point for this proposal in our hands is the record of Prime Minister Sipilä's Government Programme, which states that the regulation of diffuse waste water should be clarified and moderated. According to the registration, sensitive areas, beaches and groundwater areas are subject to municipal environmental protection regulations and the cleaning needs to be improved by 2019. Mr President! In practice, this proposal will exempt some 200,000 dry land properties from the tightening of the waste water regulations until the property is sold or undergoed a thorough renovation requiring a building permit. In the future, the regulation will cover some 67,000 properties located in sensitive areas. I believe that this limitation is what it should have been in the first place. The requirements of the Regulation should have been applied immediately to beaches and important groundwater areas, and the environmental benefits that the Regulation calls for can be achieved. The regulation is not needed to intimidate and cost cottage grannies in the middle of forests.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u376	Ladies and gentlemen, there are a few of you here, and each of you who are taking part in the debate will also have the floor. That is why we are going in the order of the actual speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u377	Mr President! The current waste water regulation on sparsely populated areas has created a great deal of confusion and scope for interpretation here over the years. The purpose of the Government's proposal is now to rationalise and clarify certain aspects of the regulation on the treatment of residential waste water in sparsely populated areas. The chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mr Hassi, presented the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection very thoroughly. The essence of this government proposal is that a 100-metre limit is now set, i.e. from the outside wall of the building to the water, a building farther than that 100 meters. The second point is that a basic level should be set. There are no more detailed cleaning requirements for the household water treatment system in the property, not in the design or construction of those systems, but in the definition of the basic level to be fulfilled by the building. Admittedly, when the committee heard the experts, there was also some message that this government proposal may also cause confusion in the municipalities, how it is interpreted, but of course information is key here. The most important thing, however, is that we are now clarifying the current regulation which exists and moving forward. I personally believe that people will also be very satisfied in sparsely populated areas. Of course, with regard to what Mr Myller has already referred to, I personally see this 100-metre limit set and viewed from the outside wall of the building.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u378	Mr President! I have just, as chairman, presented the committee's report, and now I am presenting my own views on this matter. Together with Mr Adlercreutz, I have signed an objection in which we propose to amend three of the worst in my view. I find the government's proposal extremely problematic for the very same reasons as Mr Myller has already presented here. I would also like to say that, in the expert consultation, the Finnish Environment Agency pointed out that a study of legislation and its comprehensibility shows that, in particular, the wide-written exceptions and continuous changes actually increase bureaucracy when they make things unclear to everyone. But, indeed, this matter, which Mrs Torniainen also mentioned, is that the government's proposal sets the criterion of how far the wall of the building is from the water, in my view, illogical. Our objection is that if the end of the discharge pipe is closer than the wall, then the distance from the water will be determined by the person who is closer. Another problem is that when you go more than 100 metres from the beach and you are not in a groundwater area, but in a village-like settlement, for example, where there are old settlements and poor wastewater treatment or no sewage treatment at all, the municipalities are deprived of the power to regulate. I think this is a very bad thing, and that is why I am suggesting that the municipalities retain this power throughout their territory. Thirdly, together with Mr Adlercreutz, I would like to point out that these requirements for derogations are to be maintained in the same way as they are today, i.e. in the event of:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u379	Mr President! I do not really understand the fact that the protestors are being insulted for nibbling when they talk about this 100 meters. I think that Mrs Torniainen and Mr Hassi have already described the problem. If I have a 50 - foot [80 m] discharge tube and it is 20 meters [20 m] from the water, it is quite strange to think that the trip is to be counted from the wall of the house. In that sense, I regard that criticism as a quirk and not the fact that attention has indeed been paid to this metric flaw. On the other hand, I am surprised that although the Central Party has had a great deal of enthusiasm for municipalities having to have more chance of solving zoning,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u380	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u381	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u382	Mr President! According to this bill... We have been talking about these exceptions, and it is true that there are many exceptions, but it is certainly not quite black and white. If you take it from another perspective, i.e. this kind of social perspective, then the municipality has the possibility to grant a permit, that is, the municipality's competent authority may grant a permit on application. On what basis can the municipal authority grant an authorisation — it is therefore not obligatory to grant but may grant it? There are social grounds, such as old age, long-term unemployment, sickness or other comparable social performance barriers. In my opinion, it is good for the citizens if such an opportunity is created.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u383	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u384	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u385	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u386	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u387	Mr President! This amendment to the Environmental Protection Act brings to an end the long, worthless play that began in 2004. It was the first time that this was provided for, a legal effort was made to push through the matter, to correct the proposals made at the time on how to deal with waste water from rural residents' houses. For it is an incomprehensible spectacle of this farce that has been carried on around this issue. The fact that it is now concluded is a very good thing. After all, this proposal is still not perfect, but it is good that it is concluded. And please note, ladies and gentlemen, that in this matter we are now reaching the level that the Finnish Constitution says: the obligations imposed on citizens must be imposed by law, not by regulation or by the instructions of the Ministry of the Environment, only by legislation and precisely by law. This is the line that I salute with great joy. This, in time, would have been much longer in the sense and respect of people’s opinions. This bill still leaves us with the discretion of the municipality whether exceptions can be granted, for example, in the ways that Mr Kiuru has already mentioned, on the basis of old age, sickness, unemployment or some other basis, or, for example, a person who has a move from that rural apartment to an urban dwelling or a city-centred area, is given an exception, so that there is no need for a major renovation, and if someone buys and moves into his house and does a renovation, then things will be put in order. So reason in this matter has prevailed. The fact that this worthless play lasted so long must remain in Finnish history as an example of a legislative project that started to cost people living in rural areas, to make it more expensive to depopulate the countryside. That's what was in the back. And when you look at the impact of this bill on the protection of the Baltic Sea — but that was the biggest thing when this bill was taken away at the time — is this the first issue of the Baltic Sea protection that was invoked in all the speeches and all the political speeches that now need to be protected by the Baltic Sea — is there any of this protected Baltic Sea? Not a bit, and never come to protect you after this. I've always said with a little sense of humor that the grandmother of Ilomant's Naarva has that pee substance that's very powerful. When you're there at the risk of Naarva living in a detached house, normal morning chores are done in the toilet and then pull the cord and then the matter goes through the absorption fields into the soil, so I'm 100 percent sure that never, never in the world, never in the world, will there be any milligrams of this product, no matter what the species, into the Baltic Sea, never. But see what happens, for example, at the Pukinmäki sewage treatment plant, which is springtime: when spring comes and even here the sewer system leaks like a sieve — it is normal in all municipalities and cities — so a hatch is opened at the Pukinmäki sewage pumping plant and — a couple of times I have passed by in the spring, and at that very moment these hatches have been opened, and I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that the experience was not pleasant, neither to the sense of smell nor to the eyes, it floated a lot on the surface of the Vantaa River, and the smell was in my mind — it goes straight to the Baltic Sea, all of it, hundreds of thousands of cubic metres of it into the Baltic Sea. And you'll never lose a milligram of your grandmother's pee, ever in the world. The Finnish Constitution has such a so-called proportionality clause that its legislation cannot be disproportionate, i.e. the matter laid down must be proportionate to the objective pursued. That is what the Constitution says. There has been nothing to do with this matter of waste water in the last 20 years — the peak of absurdity, which has been tried to run around, with the sole aim of making life so expensive for people in rural areas that they will then have to move out of it, and the end result is that Finland will concentrate on the south here. This is one of a million ways, not the only way, one of a million means. And, Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that let us never repeat such a worthless play in the Finnish legislative history. At the moment, there is a new madness in the Ministry of the Environment called the Green Connection. They're driving it into the county patterns with rocks and axes. In the area of Kontiolahti, a plan for Kontioniemi is currently under way, based on a regional plan drawn up by the local regional association and then, of course, on a general formula drawn up by the municipality. Now there the green connection and building bans are said to interfere with the implementation of the formula, the formula does not proceed and the construction is standing. When you look at the plane at North Karelia, the municipality of Kontiolahti may pass by the eyes undetected when everything is the same green sea. That is why I hope, Mr President, that this common sense will sometimes be achieved in this way, which has now been dealt with in this waste water regulation. This is so absurd that never in Finnish history do this again. The tragic end of the waste water regulation is now in our hands. That is what I have here as a legislative proposal and as a report by the Committee on the Environment. I feel a great sadness for rural people that this kind of clowning is thrown in the face of rural people for no reason, without any apparent sense, without any purpose whatsoever to protect the Baltic Sea. The aim was only to depopulate the countryside, fortunately it has not yet been successful, but if I know the Ministry of the Environment at all — and I am referring here to the vigour that I have just mentioned — then there seems to be a new problem, and now it is up to us politicians whether we in this House have any sense of putting a plug on the officials, that this nonsense will end in this country, that it will never happen again as this Ministry of the Environment's rural waste water project has done. This is a warning example, and hopefully it will be the last.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u388	Mr President! It is interesting that Mr Hoskonen said so much about the original waste water regulation, even describing its aim to depopulate the rural population. Let us remember, however, that the original regulation of 2004 was adopted by the Vanhanen Government. That, in view of the fact, this criticism by the representative of the centre, Mr Hoskose, was surprisingly hard.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u389	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u390	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u391	Mr President! Once this has been discussed, I would like to point out that in existing buildings, where the property is located more than 100 metres away from the watercourse, i.e. the outside wall of its building, the sewage system must be made compatible with the basic level of cleaning when the building carries out construction work corresponding to the construction of a building permit. If they do not do the construction work that compares with the new building, there is no need to do anything there. Then, on the other hand, the household sewage treatment system of a property at a distance of up to 100 metres from the watercourse must be brought into line with the basic cleaning level by 31 October 2019. When discussions have shown here that municipalities cannot influence matters, the fact is that the government's proposal does not change the waste water requirements for the construction of a new building. In the case of construction of a new building, the waste water system of the property must meet the basic cleaning requirement and, if the municipality has issued environmental protection regulations, the cleaning, the level, must be increased to a more stringent level. This is a fact. Then I would like to say quite clearly that, since there are, however, issues to be interpreted here, particular attention should be paid to this information as to how the municipalities will then act. Yes, municipalities can also influence when exceptions are given to people, they have many opportunities to influence the municipality. But I hope that it will also be applied, and it may be small
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u392	Mr President! Yes, as I said, the proposal is not perfect, it is a compromise, and one part of the imperfection is precisely that the regulations apply to new buildings. In principle, however, this is a solution to a problem that does not even exist in actual fact. This speech by Mr Hoskonen raised some interesting details. It is said that knowledge adds pain, and I think it is quite painful to listen if this bill was originally justified by the protection of the Baltic Sea. Of course, it is easy to understand the absurdity of a bill, if its reasoning has already been absurd in itself, then it puts itself in its reasonable position. Fortunately, I was not listening to this argument in Parliament at the time. It is true that it is important for the Baltic Sea that Russia, especially as a region of St.Petersburg, assumes responsibility for cleaning its own waste water, as it has done with Finnish and EU money years later. It is also worth noting Mr Hoskonen's comment on these other issues of greenery in the preparation of the ministry. We just need to get this excessive greenness out of the legislation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u393	Mr President! This law has been in different fermentation facilities for 15 years, and now, hopefully, it will be these last readings so that this will not be changed after that. Yes, the stages have been varied and rich. However, there is an important issue behind this: water protection. The seas and lakes are very important to us and we want to enjoy them. There are some points I would like to raise: First of all, these anomalies. After all, these are always discretionary and are always made for a fixed period. There is a real need for good, clear, simple advice. And in general, because of this change, good advice, updating the instructions and training is needed, absolutely so that every municipality will then be able to act in accordance with this new law. One point that I am still drawing attention to is these devices, which are truly diverse and also diverse, have a wide range of levels. Ensuring these functions is crucial if the basic cleaning requirement, which is also required by that law, is to be met. That is what is required, as we say in the committee's report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u394	Mr President! A few more things to keep in the Minutes what I have felt about this whole project. From the very beginning, when this first performance came... Jan-Erik Enestam, as I remember, was then the Minister for the Environment, and the previous Minister for the Environment, the Minister for the Social Democrats, was already preparing this. But there is no point arguing about who started this, it is unwise to discuss it. Throughout my political history, I have thought that this project is absurd. I have been saying this all along, and I have made it clear — and I still agree with this, among other things, in the minutes of the conference of the 2004 Central Party delegation, to which I made a statement that it makes no sense. With regard to the equipment of the cottage in the townhouse of the Hylemantsi, civilization has spread so far that there are water pipes and sewers in those cottages too, just as it is customary to be in the civilised state, and there is also fiberglass in those cottages today, so that the 100 mega broadband connection can be used to watch TV and run online banks and so on. At the moment, this house is completely out of television — that if this civilization is discussed it can then be discussed. But all these opportunities and technological opportunities provided by civilization are fully utilised in my municipality of origin. 100 mega broadband works, water baths have been used for a long time and the wood sauna is heated — I don't know if it's an environmental crime, but it's just done. In any case, I know that, in my long experience, there has never been a waste water system that has ruined a well in any one of the houses or any wells of the people on the eastern border, and that is why there has been no need to dig a new well in any of the houses. In other words, this whole waste water decree is a complete nonsense, a complete futility, because the government is going against one group of people in this way. I think it is disproportionate, it is absurd, and it has a purpose other than environmental protection. I am in favour of protecting the environment, but there must also be sense in the matter of not making fools. Why are hundreds of thousands of cubes of it released directly into the Baltic Sea? Mr Hassi, I have not seen you in any of your speeches object to these problems caused by the spring floods, when, even in this city, almost a million people's waste water goes straight to the Baltic Sea for a while: once and for all, the gates are no longer enough and the systems are not receiving anything, then the gates will be opened to avoid even greater damage. I don't know whose fault it is, but if you're going to give a little priority to what you're doing, then maybe it's worth choosing the target a little more carefully. Hundreds of thousands of cubes of it itself are something of a small class compared to the little pee in the cottage of Naarva, and I would like to see some sense in this matter. The same applies to these regional plans and their future green lines. In our homeland, there are absolutely no more threats that threaten this nature. Neither is this law, government proposal number 128, any threat to these people. The only threat is the lack of visibility and the absurdity that prevails in this country, when everything needs to be brought here to live in Southern Finland, that is the big problem of this Finnish society. It is not this waste water regulation or the law made out of it. Mr President! To conclude, I would like to say that today, through the various projects funded by the European Union, all the world's project coordinators, young men and women, who have the Ministry of the Environment's project on their backs, and they are scaring the people that if you do not do this and do not do this, you will be subjected to damnation or some other church curse or the state will give you a large fine. I happen to have happened a couple of summers ago, in one of the homes of a friend of mine when I visited, to a situation where such a waste water counselor came to scare the people of the house, that when you have such a system and here nothing works. The master told this young woman how things really are, and said that you are always welcome to visit this house, the coffees are cooked and the pies are put on the table, but if that's what you're talking about, we'll ask you to leave immediately. In other words, people have been intimidated, moneyed, threatened and made with all the possible hares known in the Criminal Code as other than polite conduct. Do we still want to keep making fun of ourselves? For my part, I very much hope that this mockery will stop and stop chasing people in rural areas too, because if anyone wants to live and cultivate land or live in forestry or other livelihoods, then they will be given a real chance to do so. It is a similar Finnish citizen and a useful citizen in this country, as the people living here in the city are useful Finns, I greatly appreciate them. But it is not a question of appreciating people, it is a question of treating the whole country equally, and that is what I would like to call for in this sitting. I am a staunch supporter of that cause today and even next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u395	Mr President! We have strong faith in legislation, but the use of healthy everyday reason is also allowed. Such ownership, people's ownership of their surroundings, cannot be overemphasized. In Tampere, work is carried out in an association form in favour of the nearby lake, and it may not always be possible. There is an annual service to the lake in the Gulf of Kaukajärvi, whose resources are thus used to clean the lake. I remember when a couple of days after that event in 2014 at least a hundred people became seriously ill with stomach disease. I don’t think it ever worked out, but it is known that the bacteria and droppings from man apparently came from the diseases that caused them. That's the responsibility we all have. Unfortunately, I have to look almost weekly at a beach where domestic animals, dogs, entertain and then do their needs there, and there is a significant health risk. It cannot and must not be guided by legislation. A person must also have normal responsibility for his immediate surroundings. Much has been said about the Baltic Sea. Unfortunately, it is one of the most polluted, if not most polluted, seas in the world, but there has been a lot of good there. For example, the eastern part of the Gulf of Finland and the waste water from St.Petersburg are much better off than some years ago. I understand that about 90 percent of Peter’s waste water is being cleaned today. Of course, it is true that that 10% also corresponds to the emissions of a considerable number of people. The Kaliningrad region will then be another challenge in the Baltic Sea, which should be resolved.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u396	Mr President! The speeches made by the Committee on the Environment in this debate have also been very pertinent from the government parties, thanks to Mr Kiuru, Mrs Torniainen and Mr Kosonen. I would now like to comment mainly on this argument made by Mr Mäkelä that this is a solution to a problem that does not exist. However, as I said earlier and as also stated in the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, as has been the case for at least two years ago, is responsible for 13% of the phosphorus load on our waters, that is to say, for the lushening load that feeds blue algae and slimming, and is clearly the next biggest source of pollution after agriculture. This is not a non-existent problem; it is not just a question of protecting the Baltic Sea, but it is also a question of protecting the Baltic Sea. It is primarily a question of protecting people's neighbouring waters. And let me repeat what I have just said: the regions of Uusimaa, Varsinais-Suomi and Ostrobothnia have the highest population density in terms of quantity, and in these areas the need to improve the ecological status of waters, their own neighbouring waters, is the greatest and more likely to end up with more direct pollution. These are all coastal areas too, i.e. they are not only important areas in the condition of their own neighbouring waters but also in the condition of the Baltic Sea. Just as Mr Kiuru said, the Baltic Sea is still one of the most polluted sea areas in the world. The city of St. Petersburg has a great role to play, but as a summer cottage in the Kotka archipelago, through my husband's family's summer cottage, I have been able to see in the last 15 years that the improvement of the cleaning of the waste water in St. Petersburg is already reflected in the brightening of water.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u397	Mr President! A further comment on this problem and its magnitude. Depopulation and rural areas have been depleted for decades, probably since the beginning of the century, but especially since the 1970s urbanisation has continued to grow and the population in rural areas has declined. Did this problem exist, for example, in the '50s, in the '60s, when there were considerably more people living in rural areas? I cannot believe that defecation has increased in absolute terms from those decades to this decade per person. In other words, this has now been a new problem in the 21st century, which had never been invented before, and it has been put right.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u398	Mr President! I have lived in rural areas in the 1950s and throughout the year for one year in my childhood and all summers of my childhood, and then the main rule was the outdoor toilets, and the buildings that still have outdoor toilets and canteens, which was then quite common practice on land also in permanent dwellings, are still not affected at all, as mentioned in the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u399	Mr President! When this debate turned to whether the problem is in sparsely populated areas, the problem is how the current waste water regulation is interpreted across Finland, and there are very many differences in interpretation. This government bill is based on clarifying when something needs to be done, how something needs to be done, and the limit is now set at the 100 meters, from the outside wall of the building to the water. When you are closer to that water, you are told what is being done, and when you are farther than 100 meters away from that water, you are only doing construction work related to or comparable to the building. It is now being clarified specifically, and at the same time it is being made more reasonable to do what needs to be done. And while there are these anomalies, they have that interpretation. But the biggest problem is that people have not known when to do something and when not to do it again. And the fact is that when this regulation came into force and was corrected, so — as Mrs Hoskonen has already pointed out several times in her speech — there the traders circled around and told the heavens and manna how the cleaning equipment worked, and people began to fix it when it was not necessarily necessary to make any corrections. Now we are clarifying when we need to do and how we need to do it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-15-ps-135.u400	Mr President! That is precisely how, as Mrs Torniainen mentioned, there have also been unfortunate steps in this process, precisely by the market forces, that is, people have been misled, and people have had to pay absurd sums for some equipment that does not even work, and this is truly regrettable and, of course, brought its own tone to this tone. But if we go back to thinking about this protection of the Baltic Sea, the important thing is not only this regulation, but also the fact that the waste from the cruisers will be discharged in ports only in the next few years. Think: in seven days, when cruisers travel in the Baltic for such a long time, 3,000 people may then be thrown into the Baltic Sea, and when these cruisers travel in that Baltic Sea several summers, it is a completely absurd activity. Fortunately, the Baltic Sea countries have committed themselves to this now, and in a few years' time this ban will come into force, so that we can finally put this issue in order.
