ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 35/2016 vp. Section 32 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy is now presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u2	Madam President! In accordance with its name, our section has of course dealt with what has already been strongly highlighted in the general debate on the budget, i.e. that we seek solutions primarily to reach the recovery of the Finnish economy and to improve our employment. And, as we know, the direction of employment has been reversed and painful decisions have now been taken. In addition to employment, it has, of course, been difficult to approach the difficult situation of young people and the long-term unemployed, and it has become particularly important to confront them, that is to say, even though there has been a sharp increase in the number of job vacancies, this surprising principle of refusal to work has grown even more strongly. Appreciation of work has decreased among Finnish young people, and it is difficult to imagine and think about why it is alienating from work and how the people who are excluded from it as a whole are doing. In addition, we have focused in particular on East Trade, China and Germany's exports, the Arctic, bio-projects, circular economy and cleantech, the role of consumers, the removal of border barriers and, in particular, the marketing of tourism — an area that we still have to go through properly — in such a way that we have increased 150 million to Kainuu Edu, that is to say, the Eastern Trade in Paltamo and Paltamo pulp; It should be noted that tourism in Finland has recovered unbelievably well. In all Nordic countries, the state is enthusiastically involved in supporting tourism, but unfortunately in Finland it is also relatively least. And, as we know from public opinion, tourism is experiencing growth, as we saw in the news the last time, how many people from ten aircraft approached, but China and the Chinese in particular are a promising target. We have a bottleneck with a lack of investment. The tourism sector has not yet been seen as such. Both the autumn and the spring should be extended so that investors are on the move and invest properly in tourism: knowledge, staff, programming and accommodation. If such large masses start to move, it is easy to find a problem with accommodation. We have every chance, but in relative terms we lose out on state support for the Nordic countries. As far as unemployment is concerned, I would like to mention that as promisingly as new jobs have been created, this problem of encounters is something that must be taken seriously. This improvement has not been seen — but worsened — in the long-term unemployed and young people. There is a risk that Finland will lose one vintage of young people as a result. We have to find a solution to the causes that alienate us so much. Through work, our society and our ability to provide economic benefits to those who also need it will grow. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u3	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Finance and, in particular, the Section for Employment and the Economy for their excellent and excellent report, as well as the Committee on Economic Affairs and the other committees for their opinions. The Finnish economy has returned to the path of recovery and growth over the course of this year, and also gradually, albeit still rather slowly, towards a career in employment. Last year, when we were still moving close to zero growth, this year economic growth will reach 1% and in the years to come to just over 1%. This is not just a soft forecast for the future but relies on hard data from the past, i.e. total output of the national economy adjusted for working days in October 2016 was more than 2 per cent higher than one year earlier, in October 2015. The news of shipyard orders, car manufacturing and tourist flows also gives a reference to better things, as Mr Juhantalo said. The five-year gray tone is turning into a budding green. Strengthening this positive turn is now a priority in economic policy and also in the budget. The Competitiveness Pact is a key element of our common objective. As a result of the agreement, labour costs will fall and their growth will be much slower than in the rest of the euro area. This has a positive impact on labour demand. The decisions taken will boost exports and stimulate investment. However, the Kiki agreement alone is not enough to achieve the goal of 110,000 new jobs. This is why, in addition to the cost of work, the focus must be on strengthening structural competitiveness, i.e. knowledge, innovation, entrepreneurship, investment. We will strengthen structural competitiveness by bringing together the entrepreneurship and employment packages, i.e. a whole series of measures to remove obstacles to entrepreneurship and strengthen the conditions for employment. The decisions of the Budget Committee will strengthen the Entrepreneurship Package. Important tax reforms, such as entrepreneurship reduction and payment-based VAT, will make life easier for entrepreneurs and strengthen the company's ability to raise equity for investments. The same is true of the one-off payment of EUR 2500 equalising the cost of parenting, particularly in women-dominated sectors and in terms of equality, the increase in the household allowance and the facilitation of the generation of business exchanges. Tekes, on the other hand, launched an innovation voucher worth EUR 5000 a few months ago, which has been in high demand. Banknotes have already been issued to over 700 Finnish growth-oriented SMEs. With the help of the banknote, we encourage an increasing number of SMEs to make use of innovation skills to develop their competitiveness. In the autumn, I set up a working group to reform Team Finland's activities, and its interim report has already started to take forward. Further action will be prepared with a view to the mid-summer debate in spring. A few words on the budget appropriations for energy policy, which I am still responsible for. EUR 40 million has been earmarked for innovation and investment support for renewable energy and EUR 35 million for energy support for the Government's key projects in next year's budget. The objective of energy tip project support is to promote projects that can best promote future energy solutions in order to achieve the national 2030 targets and that would not be implemented without investment support. Examples include the geothermal energy project, as well as biogas projects. The growth of solar power projects has been significant in favour of energy support, which is also targeted at small regional application heat centres and small hydroelectric power. These solutions will substantially accelerate Finland's transition to a completely emission-free, sustainable energy economy. I therefore thank Parliament for its strong support for this common objective.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u4	Minister Lindström next, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u5	Mr President! Fortunately, our economic growth has shown signs of recovery. However, we have prepared the budget for the coming year in a situation where we have seen far too many years of weak economic growth and, as a result, our employment development has been weak over the last few years. We have been determined in the government to make a significant contribution to improving our employment situation over the coming years. Before I go into more detail on the details that we as the government have made to improve the employment situation, a few words about the current situation: the Ministry of Finance has estimated that this year the unemployment rate would be 9%. This is an improvement of 0.4 percentage points compared to last year. The forecast for 17 is 8.8% and for 2018 8.5% unemployment, so we are moving in the right direction. In this process of development, the new openings made by the government and the Competitiveness Pact play an important role. A few more words on the current situation: According to the latest employment survey, at the end of October, the employment and economic development offices had 328,900 unemployed job seekers. The number is large, but it is still 8700 fewer than one year ago. Compared with the year before, there were 4,000 more vacancies at the end of October than one year earlier. At the end of October, the number of services falling to the activation rate was 129,000, which was 8,000 higher than in October of the year before. Well, on several occasions in this Chamber we have talked about young people as well as the long-term unemployed. At the end of October, there were 41,000 unemployed jobseekers under the age of 25, which is 2,400 fewer than one year ago. Young people's unemployment also fell by over 1000 compared to the previous month. We still have a lot of work to do to tackle long-term unemployment. The situation is that we have over 122,000 unemployed over a year and nearly half of them have been unemployed for over two years. These figures are far too high. We will change the focus of passive measures more towards active measures. We will do so by extending the use of unemployment benefits. From the beginning of next year, the appropriations earmarked for unemployment benefits in the main category of the STM may be used to finance start-up grants, wage subsidies and mobility grants. We estimate that this would open the door to work for around 10,000 unemployed people. On the whole, we will transfer EUR 151 million from the section of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy to the section of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, and, as I said earlier, the appropriations for unemployment benefits in the section of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy will be used for activation. We will also increase the resources of the TE Offices by 17 million: EUR 10 million will be allocated to the recruitment of around 200 additional people, EUR 5 million to the purchase of profit-based purchasing services and EUR 2 million to the development of information systems. With additional resources from the beginning of next year, periodic interviews with unemployed people will take place every three months. The aim of increasing interviews with job seekers is to provide a quick job for an unemployed job seeker, to prevent long-term unemployment and to fill vacancies quickly. The starting point for improving the efficiency of TE services is that the services provided to unemployed job seekers are based on the customer’s service needs and support their employment. The purpose of the interviews is to serve and support the unemployed in seeking employment better than before. A few more words on the integration package that I am responsible for: Municipal compensation for integration measures will increase to EUR 232 million, which is about 100 million more than will be used for municipal compensation this year. This year, municipalities have received nearly 6000 people who have received a residence permit on the basis of international protection, but more municipal seats are needed. We have therefore made it possible, through the EU's Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, to provide additional support to municipalities for the reception of refugees. In the face of the new situation, we have also looked for new financing solutions, which I would like to highlight here the Investment Fund for the Integration and Effectiveness of Employment of Migrants. Mr President! To conclude, I should like to thank the Committee on Finance and the Section for a well-prepared and worthy report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u6	Let's go to the debat. I'll ask those involved to report to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u7	Mr President! Thank you both for the introduction. Now that this is the last of these days and Mr Rehn is here in the packages and in the plenary session, I would have liked to draw attention to the fact that we have forest chipping support and we have a lot of sawmills in Finland quite close to the profit threshold and, in terms of fairness and logic, it would be wise for sawmills to also get under the same support as sawmills. I would like to ask whether the Minister himself has a position on this, or whether you have discussed this possible matter with the future Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u8	Mr President! Thank you both ministers, especially the Minister for Labour, for raising the issue of long-term unemployment, because there is still a lot of work to be done. If we consider that there has been a positive trend in the economy, there has been a positive trend in production, then in fact employment has not yet taken place. According to Statistics Finland, we have 32,000 fewer women unemployed and 30,000 more men than a year ago, i.e. the negative in these figures. Then, if we look at unemployment figures, we have 8,000 fewer unemployed than a year ago. But that is actually the result of the fact that there are more people in self-employed education and, for example, in rehabilitative work activities, i.e. active activities. And now, if we look at this budget as a whole, the risk is that even if unemployment benefit can now be used more actively, it may not be targeted at the long-term unemployed, because the employment potential of organisations, for example, is limited;
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u9	Madam Speaker! Due to the lack of time, there was no opportunity to warmly thank the section members for their good work. The difficult issue of Terrafame was, in particular, an extraordinary one in which I would like to thank the largest opposition party, the Social Democrats, for their excellent, good cooperation with the government parties. This was a significant head start in such a way that cooperation can be found. Although one party completely disagrees with the arguments, our work in committee was smooth. We listened to 61 experts on this issue and twenty meetings. This is what we went through and went to the Terrafame mine. We were convinced that there was a well-managed environmental work and a well-managed system, the whole system. It is systematically good and effective. We are counting on its success in achieving a positive cash flow in early 18 C.E.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u10	Mr President! I would like to thank Mr Juhantalo and President for his fine words. I would draw attention to the fact that the problem with the Finnish economy is a drop in productivity. Up until 10 years ago, high technology accounted for 18 per cent of Finland's exports and now only seven. We have a double export problem: fewer exports and a lower price. The value of exports must rise. At the same time as the value of the export input has fallen, enterprises’ innovation inputs have fallen by almost one third, and these are related. In next year's budget, an additional EUR 65 million will be cut from business and innovation funding. This is harmful, even dangerous. And this is not the voice of the opposition, but this concern is reflected in the report of the Committee on Finance, which was prepared in a good spirit by the Section for Employment and the Economy. Concerns about the future's well-being are shared, about Finland's success in the digital world economy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u11	Madam President! The representative, Lindström, has very well begun to develop and diversify these employment services and to involve various producers in these employment services. One of the very big challenges seems to be how to get an open knowledge of the unemployed, that all actors are able to see the situation and, in a certain way, see how to deal with the unemployed and new jobs. There seems to be quite a lot of challenges in practical life with regard to this issue. How does Minister Lindström see that this could be rectified, preferably in the near future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u12	Mr President! Today, the National Economic Research Centre published a study that states that energy tax refunds worth EUR 200 million for energy-intensive industries will not help Finland’s competitiveness. This is linked to what Mr Haraka has mentioned, namely that our high-tech share of exports has developed in the wrong direction in recent years. I would therefore like to see a vision from the government of how we are heading towards the promotion of high technology exports by promoting solutions that have rapidly growing demand in the world, such as photovoltaics, smart grids, new forms of storage of electrical energy, rather than trying with various tax reductions and subsidies.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u13	Mr President! Hundreds of millions of business subsidies are distributed each year, part of direct subsidies, part of tax subsidies. Different forms of support have different effects, both in terms of employment, growth, innovation and the environment, and different forms of support have different impacts: some are more effective forms of support than others. Unfortunately, it seems that the government's business support policy is not based on impact assessments, as the most effective innovation, research and product development aid has been cut with the strongest hand, although it is these subsidies that are essential for the growth of high value added and exports. Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister: will the government carry out an overall assessment of the overall business aid package next year and take the measures proposed by the Left Alliance to raise funding for research, innovation and development to the level of the competing countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u14	Madam President! Finland succeeds only through work, and we are particularly successful when we make products and services that require a high level of competence, and they are created only through continuous research, product development and innovation. It is therefore a pity that the government cuts both Tekes' and VTT's funding, and we hope, Christian Democrats, in our own alternative budget that these sums can be returned to the state budget. However, my question concerns the long-term unemployed, because we need to raise our employment rate, including the intermediate labour market, and I would have asked Minister Lindström: could the government consider that the 3000 person-year limit for this 100% wage subsidy now set for associations and organisations could be abolished, because at the moment associations and organisations are unable to hire all the long-term unemployed who need it?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u15	Madam Speaker! The section president, Juhantalo, took up a very important question, work and the importance of work, as well as from the point of view of human mental development, but also from the point of view of the welfare society as a whole. And that is why all support should be given to Minister Lindström, who spends nights and days on more efficient access to employment services so that people who can work can apply to those vacancies. On the other hand, I would also like to take up Mr Turuse's speech in which he said that it would be essential for the competitiveness of sawmills and for the whole Finnish forest balance and the forest cluster to be able to maintain the position of the mechanical forest industry in such a way that it would be competitive. This means that these by-products must also have some kind of market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u16	Mr President! I will then make a more detailed speech on industrial policy on that list. Thank you to the Ministers for their proper and moderate presentations. I would like to draw attention to one specific point. Small and medium-sized enterprises exporting Northern and Eastern Finland have had separate regional transport aid. During the last term of government, we made sure that this transport subsidy was maintained. More than ten embassies visited me here to demand it. We took it seriously and now there will be EUR 5 million in the budget for next year. But in this Government Plan 2017–2020 it says that, in connection with the government's savings decisions, enterprise aid will also cease after 17, regional enterprise aid. I don't think this is possible. Do the ministers have any more detailed information on this? It is a very important issue for entrepreneurs in Eastern and Northern Finland who are exporting, and I think that this should definitely be changed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u17	Madam President! Less than three weeks ago, we were discussing an energy and climate strategy here in the Chamber. I do not believe that there was any mention or opinion on nuclear power plants. Let me take one example. It is assumed that a piece of sugar, be it Sirkku or Pulmu, corresponds to enriched uranium fuel with an energy content of 10000 kilowatt hours, i.e. nearly one detached house of energy, and the emissions of particulate matter are 0, as well as greenhouse gas emissions. That is why I ask Minister Rehn: is not the energy policy of the people linked to nuclear power? How's Olkiluoto 3, is there anything new about that? And then this Rosatom: at what point is the application for a building permit, are things progressing in the supposed chronological order?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u18	Mr President! Recently I was contacted by an unemployed person who had found his dream job in the company and tried to book time at the TE Office for this purpose. He didn't get time until a long time ago. The employer couldn't wait. I missed the test site. Well, now that this budget has been discussed in committee, a number of experts have suggested that, when resources are transferred to these three-month interviews, it will be more difficult to get time from work when there is an urgent need for advice, to agree on something. And the question here is not directly that there is no money, but that it is decided to spend money on a top-down and not on an employee's need. I assume that with this new budget, this kind of stand-up will become even more widespread, and many experts assume that. We should do something about it as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u19	Mr President! I am sure Mr Kontula was right, there is this problem, but there is also the other way around. Today we read in the Aamulehti, among other things, that there is a special problem: A furniture installation company would have a lot of work to do, but the unemployed do not seem to be interested in this job. It has certainly not been contacted by more than a few people, and then it has been said directly from there that the work is not of interest at the moment, because it has just begun to be 500 days of earnings-related. I should like to ask Minister Lindström: you have done a good job of employing people, but how can we respond to this problem of encounters, that on the one hand we actually have the unemployed, but we also have a shortage of labour in certain sectors and that young people are not interested in work?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u20	Madam President! The government wants to develop employment measures from passive to active, and it is easy to share this objective here in the opposition now and in the future. However, we have a decision that unemployed people who are prescribed and directed by the Employment and Economic Development Office (TE Office) receive an allowance for expenses, but those who seek, seek and find a place of education on their own will not receive this allowance. This expense allowance may amount to EUR 200 a month, and although we feel that this is a small problem, for the unemployed it can be a life-size money without which you are afraid to go to education. How does it work now that we want to transform the passive into active when, on the contrary, it is rewarded for being passive and punished for being active?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u21	Madam President! The section president, Mr Juhani, raised the issue of tourism, and tourism is a very important area for development. Last year, 7.4 million foreign tourists left more than EUR 4 billion in Finland. It is export income, tourism is an export sector. But we're still underachievers here. We have huge growth potential, more than 5% a year can be increased and even more so. Tourism is the only export sector that also pays VAT to Finland, which means that the tax revenue is high. It is also a labour-intensive sector, employing over 140,000 people a year, and most of them are young people in need of work. Tourism investment is needed to raise the level of accommodation and service levels, investment and also marketing. What kind of plans does the government have for developing tourism as an export sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u22	Mr President! Mr Ihalainen raised an important issue, namely transport subsidies and their continuity. About 14 per cent of Finnish companies' turnover is logistics, that is, when we talk about competitiveness, we must remember that it is more than just people's wages. Thank you, Mr Juhantalo, too, for the fact that tourism is finally rising to the level, including in this Chamber, where it belongs. I would have asked the Minister: if and when we talk about developing tourism, what are our specific objectives and how do we resource and schedule this work? Too often, our work is concentrated in certain areas, in certain cities. How are we going to develop tourism in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u23	Madam President! In my group speech, I said that the government would be ashamed of the unfortunate treatment of long-term unemployment, and this is certainly still a valid remark. Long-term unemployment is a very serious problem because it leads to the destruction of a large number of workers, quite frankly. They are permanently losing their job market eligibility and therefore every effort must be made to reduce long-term unemployment. In Sweden there are approximately as many unemployed as in Finland. However, employment services there — directly helping the unemployed, looking for jobs, looking for different options — have six times as many staff. This is not the difference that small tinkering and different tricks can make up for; it is the resources that are at stake. Does the Minister of Labour think that the resources of our employment services are adequate?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u24	Madam President! The Bank of Finland's forecast last week was certainly the best gift for the maiden Suomi. The economy has finally found its direction in the Government Programme. Thanks to the government, Finnvera's export mandate will be increased from EUR 8 billion to EUR 27 billion. This is a hugely important issue for Finnish companies seeking to enter international markets. Thank you also for making Team Finland as streamlined as it should be, i.e. all internationalisation services can be obtained from one door. But I ask Minister Rehn: How do you see that in the provinces this one-stop shop principle of Team Finland works? Many streamlinings are being made in regional reform, but it is now important that at the moment, when the economy is changing, we have the best possible services for our businesses and the state to support it then to show the way and help. What are the plans for the regions for Team Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u25	Madam President! Attention was drawn here just now to the fact that the government has not been able to secure enough employment appropriations. In the context of the amending budgets, we have constantly drawn attention to this problem. That brings us to the question, Mr Lindström, that, since the government has not invested in employment here and now, on the contrary, there is money, let me say, wasted on generous tax cuts for the good people, we are in a situation where it has even flashed that next spring's mid-term review is going down the road to further cuts. There was no response from the government as to whether there was a need for further cuts of 0.1 billion or 2 billion, but what is essential is that a policy that does not give rise to employment here and now may be subjected to further cuts, which would be a disastrous path. Ministers, both Minister Rehn and Minister Lindström, I hope that you will assess this additional need for surgery, and I hope that you can already say that there will be no such thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u26	Mr President! It has often been said in public that the active unemployed now loses up to EUR 200. I would ask Minister Lindström to open up what this is all about. If I have understood correctly, then the thing that entitles you to expenses is that you are studying an area in which you could be employed. Of course, I understand that there may be areas you would like to study, but that does not necessarily justify compensation. I would ask this to open up to the audience because it raises a lot of questions. Then I would have wondered about these unemployment statistics. Representative Filatov said that unemployment has fallen. If I listened correctly, he said that 32,000 women work more and 30,000 fewer.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u27	Mr President! That is why I used those two statistics because they always tell different things. They have about 30% of the unemployed in common, so it is worth learning what is inside the statistics. In fact, our unemployment has fallen by about 8,000. But what I wanted to say is that at the same time, self-training, rehabilitation, the work experiment has the same 8,000 people, which means that the number of people has not been more employed in the open sectors without forms of support. And now that this debate has brought up the fact that some sectors also have difficulties in accessing labour, we now have a lot of people in self-employment, which is an excellent and good thing, but there is actually more training in those sectors where employment is falling and less in those sectors where employment is improving. Labour market training can guide the direction in which people are trained, and it is easier for the long-term unemployed to get there. But the amount of this training has halved, and I think it is a big concern because it affects the availability of future labour force.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u28	Let us take Mr Zyskowicz, Mr Adlercreutz and Ms Kari before the ministers speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u29	Madam President! I too would like to thank both ministers for their good work, and when this is one of the last occasions to thank Minister Rehn, I particularly want to thank him, and I am pleased that he will continue to work for our common father country in the Bank of Finland. Minister Rehn said that 'confirming a positive turn now is a priority in the work of the government', and that is the case. My question is that, when we know that the positive turnaround that is now in sight is not enough for the government to achieve the ambitious targets set in the Government Programme in terms of employment and deleveraging, what new steps should be taken in the spring spending limits debate to boost employment and growth in order to enable the government to achieve those right objectives set in the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u30	Värderade Talman! If you compare the Finnish business field with a Central European, it is striking that we have very few medium-sized companies. Today, VATT published a report in which it states that energy tax refunds are very much directed at large companies and small companies are left without them. After all, the refund of the energy tax has in itself been seen as a very problematic issue, but the fact that it still distorts the competitive environment in this way is probably something that the government should take into account. Have you said this and are you going to do something about it? Emissions trading revenues are also being returned to the source. That is why Minister Rehn had a sensible, rational proposal to target investments that promote clean technology. I would see that this is an absolutely essential requirement for the competitiveness of our companies in the future. After all, we are now simply rewarding them for pollution.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u31	Mr President! According to statistics, the employment rate of young women is significantly higher in all Nordic countries than in Finland. We may have been somewhat confused in the opposition over the last few days by the inter-governmental debate on family leave reform, because we know that if we want to improve the labour market position of young women, family leave reform is definitely the best way to do so. However, every government party seems to disagree completely with what is going on here and, more and more, of course, our confusion about the fact that this issue has not been outlined in the Government Programme and that nothing has actually been said in the Government's recent equality programme. I would like to hear from the Minister for Labour what is going on here and what the government is doing now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u32	Then there are the ministers' speeches. — Minister Rehn, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u33	Mr President! Thank you for a proper, albeit sometimes critical, debate, as it should be. First of all, I thank Mrs Zyskowicz for what she has said, and I very much appreciate it. We share the same objective of improving Finland’s economy and employment, although perhaps the plot may change for me. You asked what new measures would be needed in the framework debate in order to achieve the employment objective. This is certainly a concern shared by all of us, and I would like to raise three points. Firstly, under the employment package it is extremely important to seek solutions for matching labour supply and demand. This work is carried out by a working group led by Secretary of State Martti Hetemäe. In parallel, of course, the forthcoming proposals of the incentive trap working group will also be very important if we are to be able to improve incentives for employment and employment, which, in the light of this debate, is clearly one of the major challenges facing the Finnish economy. Secondly, funding for innovation is a very important issue, and in this respect I also refer to Mr Sarkkinen's speech, as well as to Mr Haraka's speech. This is related to the development of productivity in Finland. Innovation funding has fallen in Finland, i.e. public funding, since 2011. It's not healthy for a long time, even though Tekes may have needed a trim to begin with. Now the Permanent Secretary Anita Lehikoinen's working group, consisting of representatives of both OKM and TEM and VM, Tekes and the Academy, is preparing proposals for qualitative improvement, structural improvement and quantitative improvement of both innovation and university funding. We will certainly have a common concern in this regard, as Mr Harakka said, and we will try to find solutions in the context of the mid-term review. The third question is, among other things, what Mr Jokinen referred to, namely the development of tourism. At the beginning of the year, I set up a tourism development group with a strong involvement of the actors in the sector, and it will make proposals so that its performances can be taken into account when preparing for that spending limits debate in April. Mr President! Representative Ihalainen referred to transport aid, which is valid for next year, in 2017, in current decisions. It has always been fixed-term, and the follow-up can be decided in the JTS dispute. In my opinion, the government is not giving it up. I do not usually advise my successor, but here I am trying to tie the hands of my successor, because transport aid is a very important tool for regional development, and Sweden spends many times more on it than Finland does. Congressman Heikkinen asked about Finnvera's export mandate. It is precisely because they are being increased from EUR 8 to EUR 27 million, which is very important for the shipbuilding industry, for the forestry industry, for telecommunications networks. In parallel, Team Finland's reform has also been implemented on the one-stop shop principle since September 2015. It has been well received by SMEs. Now the Team Finland coordinator will be in each province, who will gather forces in the province and help to ensure that growth-oriented and growth-oriented companies reach the national Team Finland area, thus building a chain from the provinces to the world and strengthening the prerequisites for internationalisation. The service voucher for internationalisation will contribute to supporting this work in the spirit of what was done with that Tekes innovation voucher. Representative Juhantalo commented on Terrafame's views. I would like to thank Mr Juhani both for his work on the budget and also for his constructive attitude towards Terrafame, as well as the opposition party, the SDP. It can be said that, in Terrafame, due to the weight of history, it has been a very hard task to put the environment and safety at work in order and to raise the operational activity of the mine towards profitability. This work is now on track, it needs to be completed, but we are on track. It is very important that the management and staff of the company experience trust from the government. I can tell you that they have full confidence in everything.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u34	And then Minister Lindström, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u35	Madam President! I will start with the problem raised by the section president, Mr Juhantalo, including the incentive traps, which has been raised here by others. Mr Rehn has already said that we now have working groups to consider these issues. We have taken measures on housing, and of course another big incentive trap is the cost of commuting. These are clearly the two biggest issues, and we must of course consider ways to do this. On the other hand, on the enforcement side there are things like this, even those we consider ways. So there are a lot of things going on — I regret that it is going a little too slow, but measures are being taken. These problems have been identified and are, of course, to be addressed, depending on the carrying capacity. Congressman Filatov, not yet positive in unemployment. Of course, there are many different kinds of statistics. I, too, think I understand the content of this statistics in a way and what it says. This job has taught me how to read those statistics. I myself will try to be very specific about what I say to the public when it comes to unemployment, employment rates and so on. Why the roof of the organisations, asked Mr Filatov, and Mr Essayah drew attention to the same thing, namely this 3000 man-years and the 100 % subsidy paid by the state. I have said this before that we have started austerity measures in these areas from the point of view of what is most expensive for the state. It is this 100 % State aid. So it is certainly not going to be completely down, even though you hear such news coverage, but there is this roof, and everything is from the fact that when you have to save everything you save — I regret that this is the case. Mr Jaskari spoke about the vision of diversifying employment services. The view is that the current TE and business services have not kept up with the economic and labour market rhythm, so a brisk renovation is needed. There is a lot of good work to be done in the Employment and Economic Development Offices, but I think that the system is too rigid — not only in my opinion, but also in the opinion of the government. There are too many individual services, they are scattered; expert resources, skills are difficult to move. We are now looking for a little kick in this, and not even a little bit, we expect much from it when, through growth services, the employment services are also, in a way, involved in this debate, they are actually becoming new operators here. I see this as positive. Of course, what is happening here can always be feared. Of course, it is up to us to tell the field too, the workers who are doing their work on these matters, what we are doing, in a timely manner and to dispel all the anxiety that is. And I would like to emphasise that decisions by the authorities will continue to be decisions by the authorities, not outsourced to anything. Well, then, the concern raised by this representative, Mr Kontula, that he will not have time to work when he needs to. In my introductory speech, I tried to tell you that we recognise that we need additional resources. That's where the 17 million is now. I would remind you of the list of ten points agreed together with the social partners. There is one point where it says: "The adequate resources of the labour force services will be secured." That's a strong promise. This means that the starting point, as I said in my speech, is that the services provided to the unemployed job seeker are based on the customer's service needs and support his employment, that is the starting point. I wish this word would also be spread because there is such unnecessary intimidation. I understand these concerns and the feedback that comes to you — they come, believe me, too — and I do not take them too lightly at all. Then the expenses of voluntary education, which was raised by Mr Järvinen and Mr Meri. The starting point is savings, including relocation, which I already mentioned in my introductory speech, that this money, which is being saved here, is now being spent on the act of activation, namely pay subsidies, start-up money, mobility grants. And this, which was also raised here, in Mr Filatov's speech, control of where to train. It is essential that we want to know. It is great that people are active, it is great that they themselves seek that education on their own, but it would be good to know whether or not they are working in this area. There's this side, too. We want to know what's going on. Mr Uotila, it is quite clear that long-term unemployment is too high. Well, I can go to the shame then, but at least I'm trying to do everything in my power to reduce long-term unemployment in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u36	Then we can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u37	Mr President! Indeed, long-term unemployment is the main concern here, and that is why the resources of these organisations are significant, because they are the source of employment for the long-term unemployed and the most vulnerable unemployed. It is only natural for companies to peel off cream, as it were, because they want the most productive unemployed who have been unemployed for less time, be it in the form of pay subsidies or joint training or whatever. But for these interviews and their resources. Since it is clear that when you interview in a certain rhythm and you constantly become unemployed more than the mattress that we see in the statistics as unemployed, there are many more interviews than we have in the unemployed. The municipalities have offered to be partners here. They offered the minister the opportunity to conduct interviews free of charge, because in any case they are dealing with long-term unemployment and have led these multiprofessional service centres with good results. I'd like to ask you why, Minister, you've been planning it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u38	Madam President! Mr Uotila raised the question of the long-term unemployed, and Minister Lindström also replied to this question about the long-term unemployed, and Mr Uotila urged the government to look in the mirror at the fact that this issue has not been dealt with. In my opinion, when we talk about the long-term unemployed, it would be quite honest to say that many other governments could be seen in the mirror. The problem is serious, and it is worth getting medicine for it with a little longer points. Many times the long-term unemployed have even been excluded from the labour market in some way. Many may have diseases or various causes, which means that they are no longer able to get away from work, and many people wonder that because of these diseases they would rather be retired than struggled on the labour market. My question to the Minister is this: has the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health been discussed with the possibility that people who are experiencing an epi-crisis that is thick as Helsinki's telephone book would have the opportunity to retire respectfully and would no longer have to ride the wheels of the Labour Administration?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u39	Mr President! This government has made good decisions, the results of which are really beginning to show, and that is a good thing. However, further efforts are needed to make Finland a better place for growth. One target group here is a rapidly growing group of self-employed people in Finland — currently 150,000. A few days ago you, Minister Lindström, received a report on the development of unemployment benefit for self-employed entrepreneurs. The main proposals concerned improving the unemployment insurance cover of self-employed persons through combined insurance and the interpretation of main and secondary activities. How will this report now be used for further preparation, and when will there be any concrete results?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u40	Mr President! In this Chamber, Minister Rehn stated on 22 November this year that Terrafame's candidate for investorship always makes a very accurate and rigorous assessment of Terrafame's financial situation, environmental liabilities and product price developments, making a possible offer on the basis of them. The Audley Capital Investment Fund, which is now the strongest investor candidate, has carried out a very accurate and uncompromising assessment and has withdrawn funding for the project. If the Winterfell mine is too high a risk to the investor, what kind of miracle does it take to find a new outside sponsor somewhere?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u41	Madam President! It is encouraging that, thanks to the Competitiveness Pact and many other measures, positive things have started to happen in our country's economy. Renewable energy offers this country an almost unlimited opportunity to develop the national economy in a positive direction. It affects the reduction of imported energy and affects the manufacture of domestic forest industry machinery. This problem, which has been the case with wood coming from Russia, is recognised by everyone, as is the problem with wood coming from Russia, because it is still paid a better price than Finnish wood. Now, Minister Rehn, you have successfully launched a study on this issue, which I attach a great deal of value to, because many machine contractors who work on the search front have had to put a stop to the company, that is to say, to sell the machines off: tens of millions of assets have virtually gone to the market when there is no buyer on the market. Similarly, small saws get into trouble when huge piles of shells and chippings stand unused. When, Minister Rehn, will this study be completed, because this is a burning issue and will cause major problems for the entire economy and the forestry sector?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u42	Madam President! Firstly, I am relieved to hear that reply from Minister Rehn in relation to this transport aid. It is precisely in this way that the special conditions in Lapland, such as the Arctic climate, the long distances and the few settlements, lead us to have high transport costs. Companies in the northern regions of Sweden are currently benefiting from an unfair competitive advantage from multiple transport subsidies compared to Finland. The purpose of the transport aid scheme for small and medium-sized enterprises is to reduce the additional costs for business activities in remote and sparsely populated areas for these long journeys. I hope, however, that this will continue and preferably with a slight increase, which is to say, at the moment, that it has been perceived that its coverage is too limited. Secondly, I would like to take tourism. We've got it. There is a strong boom in Lapland: 9 per cent is the growth of tourism in Lapland. It has known long-term work, and yes this is one of the branches of our industry, you can say, but it is also a very cyclical sector. So we saw a few years ago how the Russians stopped coming out of a one-time rush like a wall.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u43	Madam President! Bioeconomy, domestic energy policy and biofuels are based on Finnish calculations by Luke, which assume that the forest will grow by 104 million cubic metres a year and will allow more than 80 million fellings a year in the future. Now, however, the Commission disagrees and they say that forests in Finland will grow by only 88 million cubic metres, which means that the difference is huge: 16 million cubic metres, and in terms of climate policy it will make 20 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. I'd like to ask Minister Rehn: Why do you think that these calculations differ so much, because they have been made in Finland with professional skills and in particular with regard to the actual conditions of Finnish forests? And since this is an autonomous Finnish forestry policy, what can be done about this in the direction of the Commission?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u44	Madam President! The central government economy will remain seriously in deficit as long as unemployment remains high and employment rates remain low. As long as central government finances are seriously in deficit, cuts will continue regardless of the government bases of the future. In order to improve the employment situation, all efforts must be made to make the labour market more flexible. When there's uncertainty about the future, you don't dare commit. There is a need for a completely different kind of flexibility, a local agreement. But it must be done justly and it can be done justly. But if this fails, the cuts will continue and will be the most affected by the low incomes, those in precarious life and the unemployed, who, to quote the new Nobel Prize winner here, should have the right to work. All contributions to labour market flexibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u45	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Rehn for his hard work and remind you that a long-term representative has the opportunity to attend at least the international matches of the parliamentary football team, provided that you are in that condition. Mr President! This flexibility: One element would be available, Minister Lindström. It was thanks to Parliament and the Government Programme that a significant system of rotation leave was created in the country, with more than 20,000 employees participating in it at best in the year. The unemployed, the long-term unemployed, have been able to do the right job. I think it is very important now that, when the spending limits are coming and this number of long-term unemployed has skyrocketed, you should now assess the tightening of the conditions for work-linked leave. I'd give it to you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u46	Mr President! Now that I have listened to this debate, I must say that it is going to be a bit of a thank-you, namely I would like to say three thanks. One of them is Mr Vartia's contribution to increasing local reconciliation and flexibility in the labour market. I also think it is essential that we move in that direction so that these problems can be resolved. Secondly, the chairman of the Section for Economic and Monetary Affairs and the whole section of the Committee on Finance is also to be congratulated. He mentioned there that attention has been paid to the possibilities of tourism and that money has been added to the activities of Visit Finland, which I think is excellent. I would also like Visit Finland to create tools now that even where tourism growth is fastest, in Lapland, it is possible to use them in the best way. Thirdly, Mr Rehn, it is excellent to hear your point of view and your refusal to continue with transport aid to your successor. Thank you for the work you have done as Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u47	Värderade Talman! According to Statistics Finland, the unemployment rate among young people aged 15 to 24 was 17.1 per cent in October. At the same time, the general unemployment rate was 8.1 per cent. The exact number of young people excluded is difficult to estimate, but the EVA, for example, has estimated that there are 50,000 of them. Men and young people with an immigrant background in particular are at greater risk of exclusion, and the main reason for the exclusion of these groups is the lack of education. So when effective measures are found to reduce this exclusion and unemployment, I ask why the government has short-sightedly cut out education, workshops and outreach youth work instead of investing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u48	Mr President! Thank you, Congressman Vartia. I don't know if he's a socialist or a capitalist, but at least he's a realist. As far as Mr Rehn's speech is concerned, it is precisely with this training agreement that we are increasing the number of people learning at work. Economist Doctors Bengt Holmström, Vesa Vihrälä and Sixten Korkman wrote explanations last August as to why Finnish exports do not drag. The doctors said that we Finns doubt our own abilities, avoid risks, and do not understand how to learn from the experiences of others. Finland is rocking on large companies based on raw materials. Finland has a high level of intellectual capital, but how can it be replicated as larger exports? How to make Finland an attractive investment destination? How can we make Finnish business more like Sweden? The Swedes have always been better at selling to consumers. This is what I would like to ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u49	Mr President! Financial crime and the informal economy cause Finland 6.5 billion spending every year. On the other hand, the tax data show that large groups pay group grants abroad to their subsidiaries and parent companies in tax havens, which no one intervenes in. The tax deductibility of these grants is bound by law so that both parties, i.e. the recipient and the payer, must be in the same country. This is not the case, however, because in Finland this law dates back to 1986, and this tends to increase and maintain friend capitalism. Would it not be time to address this issue and close that loophole in the law so that at least a billion dollars that flow from Finland every year to tax havens, that Cayman Islands, can be brought home to the domestic industry and to the care of domestic unemployment?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u50	Madam President! Representative Vartia intervened in what everyone else should do. If Finland is likely to have the most rigid labour market in the world, it will certainly result in unemployment and longer unemployment for people who are excluded from the labour market. The law may be good for those with good luck or, for some reason, the ability to work that keeps them on the market. Germany was in the same situation as Finland for about 20 years. There was a fundamental change, and things in Germany are on a completely different level. There is talk of local agreement in the Government Programme. Can't we at least do something about that?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u51	Mr President! I would just like to say that it is certainly not the world's most rigid labour market in Finland. This is all wrong. For example, with regard to employment security, companies in Germany, for example, when they put people in the field, have to pay huge sums to redundant workers. We have it as collective protection, which is being offered, and it is also being severely undermined. Mr President! Minister Rehn: The player contract is not suspended, but I dare you to question your recent statement that Terrafame is succeeding, Terrafame is in a hit, Terrafame is in a good position to sell. Can these really be true when, in my opinion, the company continues to generate a loss of EUR 10 million per year and is unlikely to have all the costs in terms of life cycle for environmental liabilities and other liabilities? That is why we voted here last Friday that we should have called for the Prime Minister's announcement of the economic situation in Terrafame, so that Parliament would certainly have received the right information under the responsibility of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u52	Mr President! The administrative activities of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy depend to a large extent on how we are able to finance welfare services, and that is why it is very good that we have effective ministers who are taking these reforms forward. Here we have a common view of almost everything, a few small differences of opinion. From Terrafame, I say wait and trust. A minister wouldn't say that if he didn't have a hard ground under his feet. But not every time you ask questions or at an event, you have to leave for such a big and important project to pull the rug out. I do not want to spoil this atmosphere, but I will just say that the SDP has criticised this innovation funding here, but your alternative budget will take 300 million out of Sitra in one-off capital and you will give 60 million to Tekes in your own proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u53	Mr President! I can't believe this. The government intends to sell assets for at least EUR 1.6 billion, probably up to EUR 2.4 billion, but when we have proposed that we put the balance sheet to work for some 350 million, it does not seem to be going anywhere. This is the logic I do not understand. But now that we are discussing employment, I would like to ask whether it is time to consider whether this will work for almost two years, which Mr Lindström has also had. I would like other government parties to encourage the Minister that, once and for all, the results are not such that these ready-made sabluons, the solutions, can go ahead. The number of people employed has not increased and the employment rate will remain at the level of next year, and this is a rather harsh language, which is also found in the report of the Committee on Finance. Furthermore, the government has a huge faith in the power of the private market and in the fact that the public and third sectors are unable to produce results. This is what I wonder why we're here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u54	Mr President! We live in a very interesting time. The long, dark time is behind us and the flashes of light in employment and the economy are clearly turning brighter. Minister Rehn should be grateful for the work you have done. At the same time, when the year changes, do you agree with me that the government's economic, fiscal and employment policy measures are just beginning to bite properly, and do you see that next year the situation is clearly improving from what it is now, with billions of jobs being actively spent and investment in industrial policy, among others?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u55	Mr President! It was really good to hear that this transport aid, which is important for Eastern and Northern Finland, will continue. Let's make sure this happens here together. The second promise you made that this issue of chewing and peeling saws will be resolved during November has not been fulfilled. But now I would like to draw attention to this issue of tourism. It is important that this issue has been raised. However, it is not only the fact that a small amount has been allocated to Visit Finland. We need an active strategic tourism programme in Finland to map out all the strengths we have. This is also an opportunity for different regions. Unfortunately, we have not yet done such a job in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u56	Mr President! I would also like to ask about this transport aid. Firstly, I am, of course, pleased that it will continue, but when it has been criticised mainly on the basis of effectiveness, that it would not have much effect, I would have asked Minister Rehn whether there are plans to reorient it in such a way that it would have an impact mainly on export companies or actually on a smaller sector in the north and east and then have an impact on port transport and on this type of transport that has been presented a few years ago. With regard to the employment rate, I would have pointed out that our employment rate is significantly lower than in the rest of the Nordic countries and lower than in Germany, and this is because we have mainly young women out of work and men over 50 years of age. But then we also have a face-to-face problem, where, for example, there is a shortage of metal men in Kainuu, more than 400 jobs would be open, but at the same time also in south-west Finland
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u57	Mr President! Indeed, the path to growth has been taken, but more of these means of growth are needed and incentives are needed, above all, for the employment of themselves and others. Particularly good is the fact that the government has been active and has been active with regard to the self-employed and, above all, that it is possible to move between paid employment and traditional entrepreneurship and encourage it to employ itself. This would certainly help those housewives too, and then, above all, we would get those fathers home to take care of those children, so that the children too could be with their parents, but that both parents would then be able to get into the world of work to build that career. What is important is that the use of unemployment benefit has been obtained in the form of pay subsidies and start-up grants from the beginning of next year. That's good. But it would be particularly important to extend earnings-related use. This would be very important for these experts. The social partners have a major role to play here, and I hope that this will be the case. What's the situation here?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u58	Madam President! Today, Alma Media's survey showed that 80 per cent of Finns feel the climate of the country is distressing. This is a very halting study. This is certainly partly due to the long-term economic downturn and the fact that the number of long-term unemployed, particularly the prolonged long-term unemployment rate, is at its peak in Finland. But it is also the case that people feel anxious about the government’s surgery policy. It has been particularly targeted at the unemployed. The sanctions against the unemployed have been increased and the government, through its own measures, has increased unemployment. The public sector has been cut off and, as it were, the ears have been cut off from people's emergency screams. I will ask the ministers present: How did you react to this investigation today? Should this not be taken into account, for example, in the policy here in the employment services?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u59	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u60	Madam President! I think it would be important now, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, that in Finland 100 years together we get excited and together encourage, together we do and give up this flattening and 'nothing' attitude, which you, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, are quite often represented here. Indeed, as Mr Kankaanniemi said, now the government's policy is really starting to affect. This is the growth budget, the growth section, I believe. Why do we have it? New town makes a lot more cars now? Why do they make ships? It is because the Finnish labour force has skills. That is what it is based on very far. Now this is also a major challenge for education and the mobility of the workforce. In this regard, I would like to ask how the TEM, together with OKM, responds to this challenge that there is a sufficient number of skilled workers throughout Finland in the growth sectors that are now ahead of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u61	Honorable Speaker! Yes, it is as Mr Ala-Nissila here testified, as they say 'together, Tillsammans', everything is in our own hands. The economy seems to dampen growth, but still, we have growth: production, order stocks are getting stronger, private consumption and investment are supporting growth. Okay, the employment objective is a little challenging. We should get more jobs in the services sector, above all the incentive traps out. How are these objectives? What about these investments in growth and innovation, what kind of investments are to be made? The cornerstones of economic policy work perfectly well. The budgetary savings programme works. The competitiveness pact came to an end, thanks for that. But what about streamlining regulations? What kind of measures are coming in your administrative sector? Then I say: a decision on the framework for growth, employment and confidence must be made.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u62	Mr President! Yes, KD is concerned that there is not enough investment in research and innovation, but even more, we are even more concerned that although we have a lot of skilled companies in Finland – even though we still know how to market and brand ourselves for the global market, even though we lost this Nokia mobile competition – what is our weakness at the moment is that even though Finns make good products, it is difficult for companies to market and brand themselves for the global market. I would therefore ask the government what kind of investment you intend to make in this matter, that you should help companies better in marketing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u63	Madam President! Mr Lindström, you said earlier today that you are saving up for the workshops and for the salaries of organisations because of the need to save money. So you target savings on those young people who need support for skills and support for life management so that they will also be employed in the future. I would ask you whether you have made an impact assessment of what these savings are costing society when you save these people. The National Workshop Association has made a report on this, and we found that we have some 36,000 to 50,000 young people outside society. Each of them costs more than EUR 1 million to society, an estimated EUR 1.4 million. Now we have about 15,000 young people in workshops, and if at least a hundred of these 15,000 young people were trained, they would get a degree for themselves and go to work, [President MariaLohela : Representative and Elovaara. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u66	Mr President! Thank you to the ministers for the presentations and to Minister Rehn for the very good continuation of the new post as well. Representative Juhantalo raised the issue of tourism, which is really important in the future. The economy shows a cloud of light, and it must be adhered to and added to these flashes of light. Entrepreneurship reduction, payment-based VAT, generational change reform, these are the right things to go in the right direction and which will generate jobs. The number of unemployed has decreased. Working must be more profitable than being unemployed. This is a fundamental point on which I believe we all agree. The situation of the long-term unemployed, Minister Lindström, has made a very deep effort, and I would like to ask about the incentive traps. When you've met the citizens in those turbulent, turbulent parts of the world, what do they think about whether they want to work and get rid of the incentive traps? And then the workers from home to the New Town Car Factory and the shipyard: how do we keep the skilled to be found here in the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u67	I just said, "Mr. Elovaara," apparently a little unclear. Let's say it again, Mr. Elovaara.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u68	Thank you, Mr President. And thank Mr Elomaa for his excellent speech and for his ability to react. Mr President! At the moment, it is very difficult to profile as a Labour Party, even though the Finns of Finland and the Democrats in particular have at least tried to promote the work of the workers. This is difficult because Finland, soon to be almost 100 years old, is in a difficult situation, in the situation where many other Western countries are currently in. Traditional industries are undergoing a change, and my own concern is particularly directed at sparsely populated areas, the places where jobs are currently dying. I would therefore like to ask the worthy ministers how we could engage in a more sustainable political debate and take up the real distress calls we receive all over Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u69	Mr President! The Left-wing Union, known for its construction, presents its shadow budget as part of a digital toolbox, a completely new form of enterprise support that would provide the most important digital tools for entrepreneurs at a time when the company is falling asleep or is doing business part-time. This would be harmonised with the authorities. Since the costs of scaling digital services are relatively small, we would use small money to get big, money-worth corporate support for business activities that are not covered by other forms of our corporate support and where the risks of the company are still the highest. I would like to ask: how far have the ministers been able to get to grips with this brilliant idea of ours, and at what stage are the preparatory work?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u70	Mr Anttila and then the ministers have the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u71	Mr President! I agree with the speakers who have said here that growth is now beginning and we must do everything in our power to support this development. After all, the government has taken important steps to ensure that this situation changes for the better. In my opinion, we do not even thank the Competitiveness Pact enough — it is a fresh start to the fact that employees, too, have taken significant responsibility for improving competitiveness. Climate change is challenging us and involves energy policy and the bioeconomy, and in a certain way it is getting good results. But I would like to hear how the Minister for Industry now sees this problem of carbon sinks that we have with the Commission. Is it possible to find solutions? And last but not least: the Ministry of Economic Affairs has set out to reform Team Finland in the right way. But the question is: Will the export agents survive or not? Entrepreneurs who take them the most appreciate them. — And thank you, Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u72	Secretary Rehn, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u73	Mr President! I thank Mr Gustafsson for his fine words and try to stay as fit as Mr Gustafsson himself, which is not easy. Representative Uotila and also representative Aalto referred to Terrafame. In this regard, I would just like to say that the negotiations are currently under way. I will not comment on the names of the companies for reasons of negotiation, but first of all I would just say to Mr Uotila that these negotiations will be completed before the players' contracts are suspended in the spring of winter. This is a big question for Northern Finland and Kainuu, where Terrafame represents more than 10 per cent of GDP and a very significant employer, 1500 jobs. But perhaps I am frozen in this regard because I consider Hungerland's song to be the most handsome regional song in Finland, of course, together with the Ten Rivers. Representative Kankaanniemi commented on next year 2017 compared to this year. It is true that a great many actions will start to take effect next year, and it will be encouraging and will provide a basis for better economic development. This applies to the budget that is now to be adopted, which supports economic growth, and to the competitiveness pact, which will have the most significant impact over the coming years and over the coming years, and also to the energy strategy, which will be influenced by a number of actions, such as key project support and many solutions linked to longer-term priorities, from next year onwards. The representatives Turunen and Hoskonen asked and commented on forest chips and wood and bark. These are a very important part of the new bioeconomy that is developing in Finland. The energy and climate strategy will increase the use of forest chips, but also the use of biting and bark as biofuels, and this increase will total around 3 to 4 million cubic metres by 2030. Wood and bark can also be used on the small CHP side, i.e. combined production of electricity and heat, small production, which is part of the proposed technology-neutral production aid. Based on these studies and as part of them, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy continuously assesses the impact on future development. In this regard, I am sure that the future Minister for Economic Affairs, Mika Lintilä, will follow closely and evaluate possible measures. Representative Hassi previously referred to smart grids and battery storage technology. I quite agree that these are very key elements of Finland's national energy strategy, and that is why they are part of the key project support. The main project support will double the support for energy innovation, and decisions will be taken early next year, which I assume will be directed, among other things, towards the development of smart grids and the development of battery and storage technologies, both of which are a very important part of the major transformation in the energy economy. Mr Suutari asked about the use of transport aid, several other representatives, including Mr Salmon. This is certainly an issue that the government is assessing in the spending limits debate in the spring of winter. With regard to next year, things have been resolved, but then I am sure that the spending limits will make some decisions. Mr President, on the subject of local agreement. Mr Lehti commented on this issue and this is a very important part of the competitiveness pact. Local agreement, i.e. employment contract, is progressing in Finland, not by revolution, but by evolution. It is not dictating, it is specifically making arrangements in the workplace. In this field, the movement is at least as important as the goal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u74	Madam President! Start with this long-term unemployment. I quote smarter than myself, which means that there is a research director Heikki Räisänen at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy who has been interviewed in today's Kauppalehti. I think he will sum up this brilliantly with many of the issues that have been asked here, when here, among other things, Mrs Kiuru and Mrs Viitanen are questioning these methods of government. Heikki Räisänen says this: "There is a six-month lag between the real economy and the labour market. Companies cancel layoffs first, take laid-off jobs, increase working hours for those already working, i.e. it will take some time before new employees are recruited." Many of the measures decided by the government come, as Mr Rehn mentioned there, in the next year and beyond, and I believe that they will have a positive effect. Representative Wallinheimo, sole proprietors, self-employed. Indeed, I received this report there a few days ago. How do we proceed? Let us continue to take this to a group of Ministers for Competitiveness, which will then be taken to the government. In my opinion, there were good proposals, and then we need to ask ourselves how they are being carried forward. Then this big, big question. Mr Vartia's excellent speech, which Mr Lehti also drew attention to, many others, to local agreement, flexibility in the labour market and so on. I personally believe that the labour market must be flexible but, as Mr Rehn and Mr Vartia have said, fair. There's got to be rules of the game. It must not be that one says and the other does, but that together we decide how to do it. As I see it, there is still the problem at the moment: there is a lack of confidence that, if we do this, will the result that is expected, whether it will be achieved, and under what conditions. In my opinion, it is still culminating in this. After the local arrangement was at the table, it was not good enough for Finnish entrepreneurs, and we are now in this situation. I still think that the debate should continue, and I believe that it is moving forward, albeit slowly, but we are forced to do so. But you have to think all the time about the rules of the game, and they can't be dictated. I myself have said many times that it is an agreement, and it must also be remembered that local agreements have been used for ages, that I too have been in an industry where they have been used and that there are both positive and negative experiences. Well, then Mr Rehn-Kivi raised the issue of youth unemployment, the so-called NEETs, which fall outside everything. The government takes this question seriously, and we are always putting together all the proposals, the measures that we already have, and then we wonder what else we need, because this is a time bomb that we need to be able to answer. So, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, the government has not closed its ears. In other words, the government takes long-term unemployment, youth unemployment, all unemployment, because we know that only by working will this country rise, and if there are not enough people at work, then our welfare society is at risk. That is why we are really serious about these things. Representative Jarva, use of earnings-related support and start-up money. It is there on the list of 10 points as one proposal, and it goes to that mid-term review. It has been promised that we will return to this issue with the social partners, they have promised it, but as part of the list in paragraph 10. I would also like to return to Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto's question about the atmosphere and the closed ears. Of course, we ourselves can influence it by our own words and actions. It is true that the government has made painful cuts, it is no use explaining them to be more beautiful, but their purpose is that at the same time we try to reduce these costs and lift Finland out of the swamp where we have been. I believe that there is light at the end of the tunnel, and these measures are needed. I also ask the opposition: fortunately, the majority of the representatives are relevant and also present these good measures, which the government has taken, and not just the bad ones. So we can do this together, with the support of the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u75	The time allocated to this main category at this point is beginning to turn towards the end, but if there is still a desire to ask the ministers questions, that is possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u76	Madam President! We often compare our activities with Sweden and Denmark, and so do employment issues. It is worth remembering, however, when considering the number of TE Office officials that they are multiples in our neighbouring countries. In Sweden, there are about six times as many of them as in Finland. Of course, the population is double that. In Denmark, the population is about the same and the number of TE Office officials is almost twenty times higher than in Finland. I consider the government’s plans for three-monthly interviews to be good in themselves, but I am genuinely and sincerely concerned about how the people of the TE Offices are coping, bearing in mind that there are about 260,000 interviews in stock alone that should be done, and 750,000 are waiting for the whole. That is why I ask: when there are still major cuts to the money, is there any way of steering work, structural reforms, other ways of helping the people of the TE Office to cope?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u77	Madam President! I would have continued the debate on this employment agency. Mr Kiuru said in his speech that why on earth do you involve private workers in this employment agency? Of course, I could counter the question: why not? Why cannot there be actors, private, third sector and public, and genuinely compare them with how they operate and find new ways of working? Why can they not learn from each other, look at those different options, look at different results? I don't really understand this fear. What's wrong with private employment? In fact, I would have asked Mr Lindström: do you see any fear here?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u78	Madam President! It is not a question of not being able to be private, but the question that has been raised in this Chamber today is why the municipalities are completely excluded — the municipalities that have so far worked well with the Employment and Economic Development Centres (TE Centres), Kela — and now suddenly it is stated that municipalities no longer need municipalities and that the municipalities do not have the skills they have practiced for years, and even though the municipalities have voluntarily signed up for this interview, they are not allowed to do so. That is the question, Mr Jaskari, and this must be amazed, and I am surprised by the Ministers by asking: why are the municipalities no longer allowed to participate in the valuable work of helping the unemployed, what have they done? And another concrete question when there is talk of these figures: 110,000 new jobs. How many of them have been born now? Because this was the will and goal of the government. How many do you think?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u79	Madam President! Metsäbioeconomy is living in a really fast time in Finland, and several forestry companies plan to invest very important to us in different parts of Finland. Of course, in my region in Central Finland, the launch phase of the new bioproduct plant in Äänekoski is expected, and it is eagerly awaited. Now that we have this growing production of pulp, we naturally hope that at the same time the number of new products, new processed products that can be produced from the pulp will increase. However, the situation is that many start-ups that have been created in this sector to produce new, more environmentally friendly products based on pulp have faced financial difficulties. I would like to ask Minister Rehn: how better can we help these companies to stay in domestic hands and help them to find Finnish funding?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u80	Madam President! In his introduction, the section president drew attention to a very important and important social issue. He spoke of less appreciation of the work and alienation of the work. Of course, this will have a major impact on social development and the labour market. Many speakers have rightly expressed concern about the resources of the Employment Office — and the Committee on Finance also draws attention to this. At the same time, when we consider that the labour market is changing — indeed, there are people who are less appreciative of work and who are alienated from it — how will this be taken into account in the training of the staff of the TE Offices? After all, their client may be such, and it is, very much so today, that we are even third-generation unemployed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u81	Mr President! It is good that we have a positive view and a common view in this Chamber, but I think that the Finnish economic base is still too narrow. The shipbuilding industry alone, the forestry industry, supplemented with modern Nokia, is not enough. We need new openings, we need a more diverse basis for exports. We have just heard about the challenges of the bioeconomy. Why do these Finnish innovations not receive funding? Why does the capital come from abroad, when the knowledge and margins usually flow abroad? We should talk more about digitalisation, artificial intelligence, robotization, the things that are the future. So I ask the Minister: how do you intend — and your successor will — to take into account, for example, the rise of artificial intelligence into a global economic engine?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u82	Madam President! When discussing unemployment, it should not be forgotten as much as the role of foreign-language speakers in Finland. In Turku, for example, one third of the long-term unemployed are foreign-language speakers or foreigners. My guess is that there are also people there who simply do not fit into the Finnish labour market. Moreover, the dependency ratio will not be improved by the arrival of languageless immigrants one hundred times faster than the previous ones will have access to working life. Thus, the reform of the government's asylum policy is also important for the employment situation. The recent influx of illegal immigrants is also conducive to the creation of an illegal labour market. I would therefore like to hear from the ministers how this migration situation has been taken into account in Finland's employment policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u83	Madam President! It is very good that the potential of tourism is at last being discussed more widely here in Parliament, including Mr Jokinen who spoke well on the subject in the past. The fact is, therefore, that Finland has unfortunately not kept up with the growth rate of international tourism. Mara ry has identified companies’ recruitment difficulties as one of the obstacles to growth. According to a survey carried out by Mara, more than 60% of companies have difficulties finding employees in open positions. In addition to actual taxes, high labour costs increase the costs of the sector, and unfortunately, there is still insufficient investment in the marketing of tourism in Finland. In this respect, this is an important addition to Visit Finland's tourism marketing, but this is only the beginning. Over the years, there have been a great many different working groups that have considered the future of tourism, and I very much hope that the tourism development group set up by Minister Rehn will now become real sensible proposals to make Finnish tourism flourish.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u84	Mr President! In this regard, Mr Skinner addressed a very important question about this quantity of stone feet exported by Finland and the quality of its quantity. When much has been said about this future of Finland, we would need this kind of bold program, where we would move from this bulk-Finland towards brand-Finland. It is precisely in this work that investments in knowledge, innovation policy, research and product development are at the heart of this work, and it is truly regrettable that Finland has gone in the wrong direction for several years now. This is not just the fault of the current government, it is part of the development of several years. But perhaps it is now time for us to make a slight change of direction, and that is why I would venture to suggest to the government that, on this side of innovation policy, it might be appropriate for the government to make such a change of direction now in the spending limits debate next spring, so that we can move towards brand Finland rather than bulk Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u85	Mr President! This debate has dealt with very important issues. I, too, would like to thank the Minister for that transport support answer, because we too should always think about our country internationally and also more of the Nordic countries as one market. Of course, this applies to business, tourism, education, anything. I would also like to thank the government for, for example, the incentives for audiovisual media to try now to attract film productions to Finland and thereby extend our business repertue. Unfortunately, however, it is the case that: The appropriations for Tekes have been falling for a very long time, in fact, since 2011, and at some point they should certainly be revised. How do you see, Minister — even though you are now moving on to other tasks — in the long run, that the transfer of R & I funds to the better, which was at the beginning of the 21st century, for example, in the mid-term debate?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u86	Mr President! I would pay attention to both short-term and longer-term goals. With regard to the framework debate, it would really be desirable for the ten-point programmes of the employment package currently under way to be strengthened by even cutting off this long-term unemployment, even if not still falling. More should be offered and, hopefully, the negotiations between organisations on other activities, such as whether unemployment benefit can be used to study more easily and so away. But we need this kind of longer-term growth food and conditions to get rid of this continuous cycle of cutting. In this respect, of course, not all cuts in education, research and product development are smart for future investment. We have produced quite a programme in these areas, a credible programme, and I will raise a few things that could be on the table in the future: one is related to the circular economy. It should be made one of the leading projects in Finland in the spending limits debate. It's a very big deal. We have a good starting point.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u87	Mr President! The CEO of the technology industry, Turunen, reminded us this morning that two thirds of the companies in this sector are located outside Uusimaa and that this new growth comes precisely from the whole country — there are many growth engines. That then depends quite a bit on how transport connections function and improve to their full extent, and then what is the state and condition of vocational education and training, whether they are becoming a good workforce for these companies all the time. But I will continue to ask about this bioeconomy project, which has been referred to quite rightly in a few speeches here: After all, there are quite a number of these projects in the provinces. They're waiting for decisions from the government as the moon rises. What is the timetable for the conclusion of these investment plans or aids, Minister Rehn, and what kind of bioeconomy projects will be supported in the next tranche?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u88	Värderade Talman! First of all, I would like to repeat my question to Minister Rehn: do you agree with Mr VATT's view that these energy tax refunds, in their current form, are ineffective and distort competition between small and large companies, and if so, how can we intervene? The second question: Solar energy is now the cheapest way to produce new generation capacity worldwide. In Finland, wind power is the cheapest. However, there are many obstacles to the reunification of small units. If a housing company builds a solar power plant, the energy derived from it can be used for real estate electricity, but very difficult to use for electricity from dwellings. Similarly, a power plant built on its own property is treated differently from that built on the adjacent site. Virtual measurement and the different tax treatment of self-imposed electric energy could be a key to solving this problem. Do you see the problem in the same way, and how do you see that it could be addressed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u89	Madam President! In a way, I admire Minister Rehn's cold temper, Finland is now in debt at that rate. In comparison between OECD countries, Finland ranks in the pariah category in the rigidity of the labour market, and we are about 150. But the question to Minister Lindström is: Many times we have talked about the fact that the municipalities will have a list of long-term unemployed so that we can do proper work in order to employ them. How's this going?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u90	Before the ministers, Mr. Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u91	Mr President! It is easy to proceed with this decision by Mr Lehde. I would like to see Minister Lindström really shed light on the role of the municipalities in the future. I understand that you have argued that, because of the provincial self-government, the law is being dismantled which now maintains the TYPs, i.e. these multiprofessional service centres common to Kela, municipalities and labour administration, and that when you move to this subscriber-producer model in the province self-government, as you have thought, there would be no producer opportunity and role for the municipality. The Social Democrats are not afraid of private workers, on the contrary, let them manage as much of the labour market as they can, but at the moment they will manage it on their own, and if we then move on to that subscriber-producer model, then there is a risk that we will start buying with state money what we have received so far without the taxpayer's share. I therefore hope that you will respond to this role of the municipalities. Municipalities spend EUR 1 billion to deal with long-term unemployment, and if their role is zero, that resource will also disappear.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u92	And then Minister Rehn, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u93	Mr President! Mr Ihalainen referred to the circular economy and tourism, as did Mr Pelkonen. These are very key key projects and are strongly reflected in the mid-term review in the form of decisions. On the circular economy, I come to Mr Kääriäinen's question about bioeconomy projects, where the next package, the next cluster, will be completed at the end of January, at the turn of January and February. Preparations are currently under way. It will be a total of EUR 40 million next year. It will mobilise a certain number of projects. I would be more happy to start, but I am glad that even the amount of leverage that can be obtained, which is perhaps four or five times more. Inversely, these projects, which pass competition and a tight sieve, are supported by around 20 to 25 % per project. The list includes several biogas projects in different regions, in addition to this, as I did for Mr Hassi, the development of the smart grid system, as well as projects aimed at the development of battery and storage technology. Mr Honkonen asked about corporate financing in the bioeconomy. National growth funding will increase by EUR 600 million with key projects, and it is Finnvera that is targeting new loan instruments for growth-oriented SMEs. The financing of the European Union and the Investment Bank is being used and, among other things, a cooperative banking group has launched a loan programme of EUR 150 million for SMEs, which is well underway. The aim is to remove obstacles and bottlenecks from growth, and the same applies to promoting exports and internationalisation in general, and therefore Team Finland will be reformed to make it more robust in order to improve the progress of Finnish exports by growth-oriented companies. Mr Pelkonen called for sound proposals on tourism. That is the case, and we have the best powers in this cooperation group on tourism, and I am sure that there will be very heavy proposals. Mr Kulmuni referred to the av incentive: it also supports tourism work. As far as Tekes is concerned, innovation and research will be one of the key issues at the Government's strategic session today: how to promote this. Madam President! At the end of this last speech, at least today, I would like to thank Parliament and all the representatives for their proper and constructive cooperation on the cause of the country, on the cause of democracy and, admittedly, on the basis of often well-founded criticism. My share of land will change from business economy and energy to the macro-economic side, but the work, the work, will continue in front of Finland, and I hope that we will continue to cooperate strongly in this. And if I don't get to say it from this toilet or from that raft any more, then have a good Christmas time for everyone, and collect a lot of renewable energy for the coming season. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u94	Thank you, Minister Rehn. — And then Minister Lindström, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u95	Mr President! Thank you for the proper discussion. Now let's go to growth services and the role of municipalities in the future. First of all, growth services, what it is now, if it is now unclear to anyone: it is a new TEM-like service package that combines and renews existing TE-services and business service tasks. Well, in future the province will act as the organiser of their growth services and will be responsible for ensuring that the tasks provided for by the law are carried out and the services are available. These services are provided by private companies, publicly owned companies and associations. The province itself will then be responsible for exercising the authority and providing services in the event of market failure. Then there is this fundamental question. First of all, I would like to respond to this point raised by Mr Jaskar in relation to the introduction of the company, the privatisation. This incorporation is not an end in this reform. It is only a legal way of bringing service providers on the same footing when production takes place under economic conditions. It is also very supportive of the cost monitoring of service production. Where do jobseekers get services after the regional reform? The development of digital services will continue in line with government policies. They pay particular attention to user orientation and user guidance and support. Quality local services are ensured for jobseekers in all provinces. The preparation is currently assessing different options for the start-up of job seekers’ services. We're thinking about this pa-rastage, that's how it is. Then there were quite a few questions. Representative Mr Tavio raised this point: unemployed people with foreign background and, on the other hand, this illegal labour force. This is something that is of real interest to me, even though it is not directly within my area of responsibility. It's on the STM's side, the occupational health and safety districts, the avis are monitoring this. I have asked for an explanation on the STM side, and something has already come from there. More will now be explained in relation to these positive news in the automotive industry, the shipbuilding industry. The fact is, of course, that Finnish working conditions work in Finland. If you come from abroad, Finnish working conditions are respected and paid according to Finnish TES, because otherwise the Finn will not be able to cope with this competition. This will be followed up. Representative Journal, the municipalities will in future, finally and finally, be informed of the long-term unemployed in time. I understand that presentation has already gone through here. The Government proposal, I think, has gone through in 209/2016, and it will be introduced next year so that municipalities will be informed about these in the future and not...
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u96	The general discussion and the section debate shall be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u97	The general discussion on Section 32 of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, which was interrupted earlier today, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u98	Madam President! Finding a big picture of the economy in the Parliament Hall is behind a lot of work and pain. But the reality is that economic growth will reach 1% in the current year and more than 1% in the current years. There is a clear boost in exports, and one aspect of that is that the Competitiveness Pact came at the right time, where Finnish work and employment are being reformed in such a way that we are competitive compared to other countries, especially neighbouring countries. Employment has improved, for which we can be grateful, but we still have a long way to go to get people capable of working and, in particular, the problem of encounters in a number of areas. Active measures have been taken in employment through passive measures. Among other things, unemployment benefits can now be better used, for example in the form of start-up grants or pay subsidies, mobility grants have also become more flexible, and all these measures aim to make entrepreneurship a form of employment in the future. In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, major financial investments are seen in the form of tourism and export packages and entrepreneurship packages. In particular, when living in the winter season, direct travel routes and passenger planes to Lapland in the form of tourists have stimulated the economy, at least in the north. You can also say, when the recent Oulu-based Sarah Aalto was involved in a major music production programme, that brands such as her from Finland are needed to attract interest in Finland and also to stimulate tourism. But we need export packages, and especially BusinessOulu, for example, is about to receive EUR 200,000 in funding for the implementation of industrial policy and development projects. In Oulu, we can move forward. But it should be noted that this has already been done. Oulu has a Finnish house or office in Astana, Jällivaara and Tromsa, and these could already be used much better on a Finnish scale. Next year, when Finland becomes the Arctic Council Presidency for two years, these Arctic projects will need more and more interest from all of us Finns and will also need to invest in the fact that Finns will go to these Arctic projects, projects and opportunities to employ themselves and gain experience there. Mr President! With regard to the energy package, I only say that we are therefore heading towards a bioeconomy and a circular economy, and that is where the efforts to prevent global warming are important. We urgently need the biogas projects that have now been put on the foot. They support the fact that renewable energy sources come to housing, transport and other uses, such as industry. In addition to energy subsidies, we need energy strategies that have now been launched on the basis of the government's abandonment of coal combustion, for example, and by taking a big leap towards renewable energies. The entrepreneurship package is huge. Entrepreneurial deduction and payment-based value added tax have already received praise for entrepreneurs. A lump sum of EUR 2500 for the cost of parenting for the employer is also a good indication that we want to increase the proportion of women in the labour market. The hall has also commended the continuation of transport aid in Eastern and Northern Finland. It equals the promotion of exports from jobs,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u99	Mr President! I will focus mainly on energy policy and in particular on two aspects: firstly, how Finland can create new export products in the energy sector, i.e. how we can use our domestic market of 5 million people as a springboard for the world market, and secondly, how we offer citizens opportunities to participate in world energy renovations and climate protection. After all, the fastest growing energy forms in the world are wind and solar power. This is due to the rapid decline in their prices, which in turn is due to the mass production of these technologies. For some time now wind power has been the cheapest alternative to new electricity generation, and according to the latest news, solar power is becoming even cheaper than wind power. In the world, these forms of energy will inevitably grow big. Secure global growth sectors also include electric cars, storage of electrical energy and smart grid solutions. If we want a share of the large and growing market, we should focus on these sectors. However, the Finnish Government's recent energy strategy focuses on bioenergy, which is naturally needed in Finland, but on the world market it is inevitably many times smaller than wind and solar energy, in addition to significant environmental problems. So, what are the opportunities we give citizens to play their part in climate protection? By comparison: in Denmark wind power construction was a major source of grass-roots initiatives, and it soon gave Danish farmers the best harvest of hectares. Wind power is now a billion-dollar export sector in Denmark and produces about 40% of Danish electricity. Less than 20 years ago, a programme of 100,000 solar roofs was launched in Germany. Now there are more than one million roofs in Germany, and half a million solar panels are installed in the world a day, which has been very decisively influenced by Germany’s efforts. Finland's energy policy has primarily seen large companies and citizens have been seen through a much smaller spectacle. When Finland, as one of the last ones in the EU, introduced a feed-in tariff for renewable energy, it also defined the size of the plants so large that grass-roots projects were virtually excluded. At one time Nokia was able to develop a successful product because Finland created the domestic market for mobile phones by opening mobile calls to competition. We should have the foresight to take similar measures in energy technology. Earlier today, Minister Rehn replied to the question that the government is providing innovation support for smart grids. It is welcome, of course, but above all we need a domestic market for small-scale electricity production, smart grids, virtual power plants and electricity storage solutions. After all, Finland is full of good IT experts to develop them, but new successful products for export will not come unless customers are available at home. But instead of creating domestic markets for potential future export performances, the government invests most, at least financially, in old sectors, such as energy-intensive industries. According to a study published today by VATT, refunds of some 200 million energy taxes on energy-intensive industries do not help competitiveness, export and employment and are not linked to the success of these companies. Instead, they distort competition. Unfortunately, the government continues and exacerbates this wrong line by increasing the tax base on peat and setting up a new subsidy, the so-called emissions trading company. Overall, this year's budget has over 500 million energy subsidies and over 100 million for next year. The government is increasing them by nearly EUR 60 million at the same time as product development aid, which is now more than half of energy aid, is cutting the government by EUR 55 million. So the government is
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u100	Madam President! The Finnish economy seems to be finally growing. Last week, the Bank of Finland published its six-monthly survey, and the biggest headline was that the economic recession has folded. This year, growth will be very moderate, we will talk about the category of about 1%, it will be a little more powerful in the years to come, but it will still be very moderate. However, this does indicate that the great economic downturn seems to be behind us in Finland as well. If you look at industrial production, it has been growing for the first time in four years. Certainly this will not only have an impact on the economy and employment, but also on the moods in general. As far as exports are concerned, we also have some signs of a burgeoning uplift, although exports still do not do much. But the competitiveness pact will improve Finland's position next year, especially in relation to our main competitors, Sweden and Germany. In that same report, the Bank of Finland pointed out that the slowdown in unit labour cost growth will improve the growth of investments, exports and gross domestic product in the coming year. In fact, investment has finally started to rise and is growing at a rate of 3%. Well, private consumption is still the one that keeps our economic growth going, and that is also what the competitiveness pact is about, insofar as the government targeted its own tax reductions, especially for people with low and medium incomes and pensioners, one of the elements of this competitiveness pact was that those tax reductions go to all income categories on an equal footing. And certainly not as the opposition has argued here that the government made them into large income categories, but, above all, the government targeted them on the low- and middle-income and pensioners. I have not heard that the opposition was against this competitiveness pact, and hence against tax reductions. Mr President! In the field of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, it is very noteworthy that Finnvera's export mandate will be increased from EUR 8 billion to EUR 27 billion, for example, and this is a sign of a recovery in the order book. There are also very important issues in the entrepreneurship package: the removal of barriers and standards has become a whole series of issues that facilitate business life and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I was going to say a few more words about energy and the bioeconomy, which is one of the government's top projects. In my opinion, it is not entirely unambitious that Finland is finally entering the world when we are able to give up coal. The guidelines of the energy and climate strategy are ambitious and, by the way, there are also the money, the chips. In the past, they've been more like just shouting in the wind. There are very high expectations of how much the bioeconomy and products processed from the forest in general can create jobs and jobs for us. And this is not a traditional, old-fashioned industry, but when we think about what we can do about forest and biomass, then we talk about replacing plastic, then we talk about fabric, then we talk about almost anything. Of course, the Government’s key project funding is set aside in next year’s budget for EUR 40 million for investment aid for renewable energy and EUR 35 million for energy support, and these too are also intended to contribute to reducing energy dependence on fossil import energies and to obtaining new, innovative energy activities in Finland. There are also very large projects in the energy and climate strategy, such as the blending obligation for biofuels, which would obviously be important to negotiate in the Nordic countries, and Sweden, in particular, will support us in this. And also in view of the fact that, at EU level, this EU energy winter package also, as I recall, became a 4% blending obligation, so the EU will also go to it, and there will also be a blending obligation in 30 European countries and in a large number of US states. It adds 100 million electric cars, gas cars — very strong investments in moving Finland from a fossil economy to a carbon-neutral age. Finally, I conclude that unemployment also seems to be falling.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u101	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Jag har sagt det förut och jag säger det igen: Finland måste höja sin sysselsättningsnivå för att aven i framtide kunna trygga valfärdsstaten. Vår befolkning åldras och pensionärerna ökar i förhållande till dem som arbetar. Equationen är ohållbar. Samtidigt har vi alltför många personer i arbetsför ålder utanför arbetslivet vilket ytterligare försämrar den ekonomiska försörjningskvoten. Speciellt allvarligt måste vi se på de ungas utanförskap och arbetslöshet samt på kvinnornas låga sysselsättningsgrad i jämförelse med de övriga nordiska lännderna. Värderade Talman! Det är vårt gemensamma ansvar att jobba för att de unga får bästa öjliga start i livet och att samhället activt stöder dem som är i behov av särskilt stöd. För att lyckas med målsättningen att varje ung ska ha arbete, studyplats eller practicek krävs resurser. Därför är det helt ofattbart att regeringen har skurit i verkstadsverksamheten och den uppsökande ungdomsverksamhetens anslag och gjort användningen av Sanssi-kort alltför byråkratiskt och svårt. Varför spara på methoder som bevisat är framgångsrika? Det är en inbesparing som görs på kort sikt men som i framtide kommer att kosta samhället mångdubbelt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u102	Mr President! Terrafame will be given a capital injection of 100 million in this budget. I welcome it, as does the committee on a very broad scale, not entirely unanimous, but with broad support. Terrafame has received good leadership, where things are better under control than in previous times. The bio-dissolving method that is in use there has begun to work, and when it works, it is very inexpensive in relation to production costs, it is important. Environmental and water issues have also been brought under control there. While the development of prices for products, metals, has shown positive developments, it can be said that it looks pretty good, and in the near future it will be expected that we will receive new positive news from there. This is already positive news for Kainuu and employment, what is the situation at the moment. Mr President! Secondly, the situation of SMEs is now being facilitated by the government. In the last period, when large companies were in the pipeline and the best producing large companies, more conditions are now being given to SMEs as well. It's extremely important. There has been a debate here on tourism in the past, and I would like to raise it myself. We should, for example, invest in promoting Chinese tourism, and that is something that is being invested in, but perhaps there is still room for further development of this aspect. The government's actions in this sector are clearly beginning to bite, and that is positive.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u103	Mr President! This issue of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has been the subject of a colorful debate in the past on all kinds of employment funds, which in themselves are quite necessary. There is a need for employment measures in this situation when we do not have enough of the right jobs. However, it would have to be focused on, it would have to be focused on creating jobs that operate without support. At the end of the day, however, it is only artificial respiration and water being carried into the well that supports employment by means of tax resources, and it would be necessary to attract exports and the recovery of the domestic market in order to create those jobs. Fortunately, the Government's actions have led to Finland's competitiveness being improved even in comparison to our competitors. It is the case that when people talk about exclusion or disadvantage, it always comes from having a job to fix it. It is the basic thing in life management that a person has income, regular incomes to build his life on. And it is our duty to create these jobs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u104	Mr President! This year, the government has brought a considerable number of employment-friendly reforms to Parliament and they are indeed needed. Such reforms include not only substantial income tax reductions, but also, among other things, entrepreneurial deductions, payment-based VAT, the extension of the household allowance, and the reduction in childcare fees, which has already been mentioned in this debate, especially for single parents on low incomes. This latter is an excellent example of an incentive that positively reduces the threshold for receiving work and thus improves employment development. Mr President! It is also very good that the government evaluates the business support system as a whole, and, as the report of the Committee on Finance also states, business subsidies are at their worst targeted, even in such a way that the relative position of innovative companies may become more difficult. On the other hand, the report also states that the business support system has gradually developed into a rather broad and fragmented entity. It must be true to estimate that the business support system has not been in anyone's possession for years. Regrettably, for example, the failure to provide business support is a wind-up feed-in tariff, the cost of which to the public is the sum of billions of euros spent on tax revenue over the years. Fortunately, the Government has now limited the feed-in tariff quota to the combined nominal power of 2500 megavolt amps. Mr President! Finally, research and product development play a very important role in the growth of the national economy. Unfortunately, Finland's investment has fallen strongly in this comparison of R & D expenditure between OECD countries by the turn of the millennium. However, to enable long-term success, companies’ own investment in R & D is significant.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u105	Mr President! Let's start with a few words about transport support. When you look at the matter in Northern Finland, it is very easy to say that we are practically on the island and we have a clear competitive disadvantage over a long journey if we think about our export product from the sawmill industry. It is good that transport aid is still there, but I would like it to be closer to our closest competitor, Sweden, compared with it. In other words, I would hope that the aid will continue and that it will continue to be so that it also affects large production units that there will be no restriction. One thing I am particularly pleased about is the issue of tourism, which is widely written in this report. It is well known that Finnish tourism is losing market shares compared to other Nordic countries all the time, and we should take specific measures to do so. The prices of Finnish tourism services are high in European terms and this high price is precisely due to taxes and labour costs. We should see if there is an opportunity to deal with these in the future. I look forward to the work of the Tourism Cooperation Group. This group will monitor and evaluate the development of our operating environment and phenomena and then send signals to the government as well as what should be done. Finland is a safe and clean country, and it attracts us, and we should make every effort to ensure that this aspect of security is only further strengthened and that there are no safety risks. There are major recruitment problems on the tourism side, which means that they are an obstacle to growth. More than 90% of enterprises in the tourism sector estimate that they will employ more people by 2020, and more than 60% say that they are currently having difficulties finding skilled workers for open-ended activities. We have great potential for growth here, as 150 largest companies estimate that they will employ around 7,000 new employees by 2020. We should ensure that there is no such problem of matching, which slows down the growth of the tourism and restaurant sector, because I believe that tourism is the sector in which we have the opportunity to grow and obtain that export income for Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u106	Madam President! I would like to add my voice to those who have praised this entrepreneurial package of government within this budget. This entrepreneurial deduction is an excellent solution, and it is also a good thing to have a household allowance. It has been expected for a long time from the payment criteria, and it is certainly good for small businesses, especially SMEs, as is the case with these other measures. In his speech, a representative of the RKP raised a couple of ideas, namely the development of apprenticeships and mini-jobs, and I must say that I find these very interesting and should certainly be examined by the government. After all, we have discussed this apprenticeship or training agreement and made decisions in the previous period, and we have spoken in this period, but it has not yet been completed. I think it requires further development. This mini-job practice, in which people under 30 could work with lower costs at a lower salary, is worth a special study.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u107	Madam President! I was just talking about the business sector, now little about employment. I must say that Minister Lindström has taken an excellent active approach to the development of his own administrative sector. It has a budget of between EUR 5 and 6 billion available and has so far been very passive. Statistics have changed in the direction that unemployment has increased, for example during the last parliamentary term. It is reported that 113,000 new unemployed people came, even though the government had so much money available. Now they are indeed being converted into active measures in a number of ways, and this is very important. We must do everything we can to activate all age groups, and that is where these funds must be directed. After all, they are now being transferred to the other main categories, to some extent, because there can be more active measures. Long-term unemployment is a deep problem. It started to grow as early as 2012, that is to say during the previous term of government, and that is something that needs to be addressed, but we cannot, of course, afford to try to employ these people through the public sector as before. New measures must be found for them too, and the Minister has been actively looking for them and they are also coming into use. As far as immigration is concerned, I hope that next year we will not be faced with any new problems, but at the moment things are reasonably under control and the need for funds is falling.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u108	Madam President! Enterprises' access to finance has been significantly improved. The Government has gathered a total of EUR 600 million in growth funding, which will improve risk financing, especially for start-ups and growing companies. This includes, inter alia, the intermediate financing model, which is the intermediate form of a capital injection and a bank loan. All of these have been praiseworthy deeds from the government. However, I am concerned about the messages that are being communicated by entrepreneurs who are starting to develop innovation. Risk finance for marketing in Finland still seems almost impossible to obtain. Mr President! A good invention does not sell without proper marketing and risk finance. According to company feedback, it is now not available in Finland, but must be sold to foreign owners. In this way, growth companies' billiards and good Finnish innovations are sold abroad, which is probably not the goal of our economy. I hope that the government will make even greater efforts to promote risk finance and thus help new companies that are able to grow, which are heavily invested in product development, to help export markets.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u109	Madam President! I could start with the fact that for a long time the Finnish economy has light at the end of the tunnel. After several years of decline, we have regained growth in our economy, and one can say that the hope that this growth will continue is that next year's budget will include an entrepreneurial package and an employment package and the measures of the Competitiveness Pact will only come next year to improve Finland's economic position and competitiveness. In that sense, I think that the moods — even though critical speeches have been made in this Chamber — are very much in the future and positive for the Finnish economy at the moment. However, we have challenges, and one of them is that, despite the good news of the economy, our exports are still not at the level from which they collapsed in 2008. That is why it is easy to agree with the worrying messages that have also been raised here in the debate on the question of whether it makes sense to cut back on funding for innovation. This cutting started already during the previous government, but I am sure that next spring, in the context of the mid-term review, the government should also consider whether we would be able to find funding for a level increase in the financing of innovation. In fact, even though we are cost-competitive and make steam locomotives the most efficient and affordable in the world, they do not sell today. In other words, we need to invest in new technologies and new innovations, and this is also an important role and role of the state, that in this sector we are, for our part, funding the creation of these inventions and new technologies in Finland. Mr President! I would also like to return to this debate, which relates to the budget increases made by the section of the Committee on Finance in relation to this item. One of them was increasing the funding of Visit Finland, which I think is an excellent thing. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that what is even more important is how this additional funding will be used in practice. I would see that Visit Finland should now listen to those areas that act as drivers of tourism. Maybe this sounds a bit like a bet, because I'm from the constituency of Lapland, but if we look at last year, Finland's overnight stays increased by a total of 2 per cent, In Lapland they grew by 9 per cent. Perhaps this is also an indication of the overall economic impact of the fact that tourism has been driven and grown in Lapland, especially now, namely, in 2015, the GDP of the region of Lapland grew by 3 per cent. Of course, it involves our traditional industry, but the growth of tourism is also important here. And when one is concerned about the recovery of exports, one might say that although tourism is not officially considered as an export product, international tourism still brings foreign currency to Finland and in that sense it can also be understood as an export activity. It is therefore worth listening with a sensitive ear to the players in this area, and in particular to the entrepreneurs who have actually done the work which has now led to a very significant increase in these figures. As a final point, I would like to raise the issue of transport aid, which has also been well mentioned here. The situation here is that Sweden spends about ten times as much on transport aid as it does on Finland. That is why it is already important from a competition point of view that we maintain this support, rather than restrict it. It is not like 1% of our direct corporate aid, but it is an important percentage. It is also worth recalling that the European Union has reviewed and assessed this and has stated that transport aid is precisely a form of aid which does not distort competition, i.e. it is, in this sense, neutral aid.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u110	Madam President! Indeed, Finland’s economic situation has improved over the past year, and according to the latest forecasts, including the Bank of Finland’s forecast, economic growth has now started to grow and looks good for a long time after several years of contraction and a weaker year. Unemployment also seems to be gradually improving. Mr President! Bioeconomy is one of the drivers of Finland’s growth and future growth. The second is the production of energy, and these support each other. An international Paris climate agreement has recently been concluded, which also obliges Finland to reduce its emissions. This will be particularly true of transport emissions. There are significant surgical pressures. After all, this will be implemented in the framework of the new climate and energy strategy recently published by the Government with a blending obligation for liquid biofuels and a significant increase in the number of electric cars and in the use of domestic transport biogas. It is good that a wide range of production methods, forms of renewable energy production, have been used to respond to this common climate challenge. The production of renewable energy is indeed a significant source of jobs, and they are generated throughout the country. EUR 40 million has been earmarked for investment aid for renewable energy and EUR 35 million for energy support in the budget for next year. These key projects reduce the economic risks of renewable energy, the economic risks of new energy technologies, and they are also an important part of the 2030 emission reduction targets. We have several interesting renewable energy targets under way in this country, several biogas projects, two of which are in my own province of Central Finland. In the masonry of the Mustanhigh biogas plant in Jyväskylä, I was able to participate in the past summer, and in connection with the construction site of the Äänekoski bioproduct plant, a transport biogas plant will also be built, which will enter a transport-friendly node along the Four Roads. So there is good news in my own province, and the intention is to make a powerful contribution to these renewable energy production targets from there too. The economic situation in Central Finland has really gone for the better now, which also reflects the situation in the whole country – after all, Central Finland has been an assortment, unfortunately, both in terms of economic growth and in terms of employment. According to the latest employment survey, we had 4 per cent fewer unemployed job seekers than a year ago, and I claim that: The Äänekoski bioproduct plant project has already had major impacts at this stage as a result of its construction site. Other large construction projects, infrastructure projects, will also improve our employment situation. In the future, this bioeconomy plant and the best coniferous pulp produced by it will certainly play an increasingly important role. We have endless opportunities to replace a number of products made from oil, among other things, with products made from domestic wood fibres. For example, we can significantly replace plastic, especially disposable plastic, with coniferous pulp-based products, and several different start-ups have been set up to develop new materials, including yarn. The cultivation of cotton, which is very harmful to the climate and causes serious environmental damage, could also be reduced by developing new types of yarn based on domestic wood fibre. Madam President! Finland's economic situation is now developing for the better, but there are positive signs, and especially in the bioeconomy we have several possible growth paths that will certainly boost the national economy and boost employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u111	Madam President! It is indeed a pleasure to discuss this budget for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, where there are many good signs in sight for next year. Of course, savings will also have to be made, but now these funds, which we have at our disposal, will be directed towards growth and the creation of new jobs, and precisely in the way that these incentives will be used in a new way — for example, this incentive for the production of the audiovisual sector, which has been transferred to Tekes under the TEM and OKM. This is an important factor that has been the desired support in the sector, that it will be strengthened, and it will provide more of these foreign productions to Finland, including the whole country. For example, there have been very good film productions in northern Finland and, as we know, other Nordic countries are competing for these locations and production sites. It's important to keep up in this race. It also contributes to the development of tourism through increasing the familiarity of these localities when they become known through these productions. This is a very good thing. The innovation voucher is also an important incentive for this particular research and development activity, especially for small businesses. After all, small companies have been left behind in these RK funding as large companies have been able to make more use of these large projects and employ the workforce in the sector. The reception of this innovation voucher has been particularly good. Nearly 1,800 have already applied for it and about 1,000 have received this funding. And what should be taken into account: in the future, perhaps a somewhat more bureaucratic model has been considered, and it would be aimed at small businesses, in particular for growth and internationalisation. But I hope that a very bureaucratic model of this would not be made and made difficult to apply for, because it has also been a good thing that a variety of companies, especially small businesses, can apply for this banknote. At the same time, I would also like to make some criticisms. This application process has provided very misleading information to companies about when this application period will start and end at this Christmas break. There have then been problems in applying for some companies. In other words, it should always be at an early stage in providing this information for companies to be able to anticipate these search processes. Well, then other good things in the budget: Of course Terrafame funding. As a renegade representative, I think this is very important. As we know, investor negotiations are under way, and this additional funding of EUR 100 million is important to the fact that the environment is now being well taken care of there. Special efforts have now been made on this and occupational safety. And, above all, the fact that the first investor does not need to be received by the State first, but that such a responsible and long-term operator can now be identified. I think it is important that the state continues to be the owner of the mine in order to recover these investments in this company and these tax euros that have been used there. Quite properly, it can be expected that these will also come back in revenue when, in about a year's time, the mine will begin to produce. As has been known, the bio-dissolving process has now been working well and will only produce after about three years, and this in practice is due to the fact that this negative result is still being made there for a certain period of time. But the development has gone in a good direction, and just in line with the business plan, in just over a year's time, we will hear good news from the financial side as well. Finally, Mr President, I would like to highlight this innovation prize for women. It is very good that this allocation of EUR 110000 has now been allocated as a grant to this award in honour of the 110-year history of universal and equal voting rights. The prize is indeed aimed at rewarding the scientific innovation of a woman or a group of women in the field of technology or the economy. This is an important factor and also an incentive for women to make more careers on this side. Innovation will also encourage this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u112	Madam President! I listened to these preliminary speeches here. That is where Mr Honkonen spoke of the Äänekoski factories and good bioproduct. I have to say, it's a thief's skill in what's going on there in the run-up and development of the factory. That's where Andritz Oy produces that boiler. Mr Mäkelä Jani then took a stand on supporting employment, that it is throwing water into the well. In this situation of unemployment, I completely disagree with this point, because I believe that sufficient employment resources are needed to maintain the working condition of the unemployed, to maintain their skills, and that this kind of social interaction with others in the working community prevents exclusion. Of course, I personally hope that we will find a situation in which we do not need these funds, that we have enough jobs and that businesses are doing well here, but this is the situation we are in, and that is why it is necessary to use the employment aid funds so that we can keep this job and the workers in a strong position.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u113	Madam President! The section of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy contains the money that is used to put this Finland on the road to growth with people and power. The fact is that without a significant increase in the national economy, we will not be able to overcome the current debt cycle. The Competitiveness Pact in this respect was a very good step in the right direction. Perhaps it has been a little aggravation if you compare it with the competitiveness improvements made by Esko Aho’s government in due course. At the time, it was treated with devaluation, at about 40%. Now this impact of the Competitiveness Pact on growth in the national economy is probably in the order of 2% to 3%, i.e. a little scale, but we are on the right path, and what is needed in Finland is long-term and moderate. Now we have to make the right decisions calmly and put an end to all the unnecessary tempting. Let's move on, let's work. No one’s well-being at work grows from anything other than work and enterprise. As far as exports are concerned, we have emerging signs that the order books of exporting companies are growing. Orders come from the shipping industry, the automotive industry, the chemical industry, the forest industry and many others, the metal industry in general, and the latest are of course the good news from this New Town car factory and the many good news from shipping yards, not forgetting the big bioinvestment in Äänekoski. So the path is the right one, but now only patience and reasonable decisions will continue. The Government's line on this is the right one, for a long time we are on the road to growth, and in this context I would like to thank Minister of Economic Affairs Olli Rehn, who has done an excellent job in his own ministry, raised Finland from the swamp of the economy with his persistent, peaceful nature, took matters forward, handled them here in Finland and managed them at the EU's head. Now, from the beginning of the year, he moves to the Bank of Finland, and I believe that he is doing such a strong job there in the macro-economic sphere, but on this side he has done a great job, and I want to formally thank him for that. Efforts have been made to increase export guarantees so that when Finland’s large investments always require prior funding, the State has significantly increased Finnvera’s export mandates, guarantees and thus allowed companies to grow. The government has also made wise tax decisions. Entrepreneurship reduction favours small enterprises in which jobs today are created. Large transnational companies prefer to reduce the workforce, automate, but service companies are the companies that create new jobs and give people jobs. The transformation of VAT into a payment-based tax is a saving for many small entrepreneurs. Then VAT will only be paid when the money has come into the house in the form of a paid invoice. This is a good proposal, and in the same context too, Madam President, I would like to point out that the dismantling of red tape in this country is a good example. We're on that road just in the beginning. No one should think that it is all done — absolutely not — but that work has been started and must continue throughout the parliamentary term, and I hope that even after the next elections this same work will continue. We have a huge amount of investment in regions, for example, waiting for environmental permits to be granted, for example, or for someone else to stand on the table of the authority. I know a few of the worst cases, for example with regard to peat, that ten years of permits have been in the consultation process, and that is simply not appropriate for a civilised state. Yes, Finland must have legislation that permits for business projects, which are well designed and in which everything is in order, must come in less than a year. That's when we're on the right track. Then the bioeconomy, as many have said in these speeches in this section, is our huge opportunity, but we must continue to pay attention to the additional use of domestic wood. I do not think it is justified that more than 10 million mots come from Russia over the border to Finland every year, about one million cubic metres per month, and the craziest thing about this is that our eastern brother, Mr Putin's crew, gets a better price for wood than the Finnish forest owner. This is the harshness of customs statistics. Why are we paying a better price to the east than to a Finnish forest owner? It's okay to ask the big forest companies. Similarly, this aid for electricity generation and compensation for emissions trading from Russia will make it easier for an application from Russia to receive a higher price and to receive state support for it. All Finnish applicants are about bankrupt, and large private sawmills and wood bark and sawdust stocks are acidifying into place. We have to get rid of this, and Minister Olli Rehn promised in his reply to my written question that this will be done. Research is under way, and I encourage that this path should be pursued with determination. Finally, Madam President, transport investment is also the right addition to this increase in the use of domestic renewable energy. It offers opportunities for growth, and we must continue along that path.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u114	Madam President! The government has finally made a laudable contribution to improving the conditions for business. Incentivising business is the best employment policy, as only growing and stable companies are hiring more people to grow again. Although Finland’s exports do not pull properly despite the emerging good signals, it is the government’s right course of action to invest in improving the conditions for business through the entrepreneurship package. Mr President! I would like to raise three more points in the draft budget. Firstly, the threshold for entrepreneurship has been lowered by the introduction of payment-based VAT and by the deduction of entrepreneurs. In addition, unemployment benefit for self-employed persons will be developed. Secondly, the production of renewable energy will be accelerated by a number of different projects. New jobs will be created throughout the country in the bioeconomy sector. At the same time, decentralised energy production is given the opportunity. Thirdly, standards have been dismantled and competition has been increased. The opening hours of shops have been liberalised, the red tape of gold miners has been reduced, and the procurement law is being reformed. Through all these measures, the Government has made entrepreneurship and work easier in Finland. Thank you for these actions of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u115	Mr President! It has now been heard that there has been a tremendous increase in employment during this government. Indeed, the fact is that 8,000 people are less unemployed than they were in the past and 8,000 people are in labour policy measures with some kind of support or assistance in training or work training and working to get a job. Now that we have already had time to criticise it on behalf of the government parties by using various forms of employment subsidies and others, please tell us what is better. The fact that these subsidies are being used or the fact that they are not being used? You want to tell me that 8,000 fewer people are unemployed as a job seeker. They are now employed with the aid, namely the people who are in labour policy measures are not unemployed as a job seeker. That's what the statistics tell us. It was also very nice to hear today that Minister Lindström told us that he has finally learned to read the statistics. Why don't you ask him how these things really are now, because he can read it with the statistics? What is really regrettable, however, is that spending cuts are highlighted in government action, although all international experience shows that a policy based almost exclusively on major cuts can jeopardise employment in the short and long term. At the moment, it is evident from the fact that our long-term unemployment is on the rise. We should do something about it. The cuts also directly reduce the number of people working in the public sector, and the kiky agreement, as good as it is, cuts the funding and employment of municipalities in particular. In addition, cuts in education, research and product development are putting our competitiveness at risk now and in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u116	Madam President! However, Finland's economy is finally growing, and we can all agree on it and be very happy about it in the beginning of Christmas. The Government has adopted an entrepreneurship package and aims to strengthen entrepreneurship and hence employment, because it is undeniable that in recent years only the SME sector has significantly employed in Finland. The news from the West Coast over the last few months is positive; we have got big employers involved in this. But entrepreneurship has been and will be the most important sector in the years to come, and I think that the government has done reasonably well in such a difficult time. The innovation voucher is a good example of new measures like this. Entrepreneurial deduction and the transition to payment-based VAT are the big things that small entrepreneurs have longed for for for years, and these things have gone well forward. This will increase the value of entrepreneurship and thus create new jobs. Unemployment benefit for self-employed workers is being developed, but it still requires action. Much has been said about renewable energy here, and it is great that in Central Finland Äänekoski and Savo Varkaus are these good examples. Personally, I would like to see this kind of renewable energy plants in south-east Finland get a new boost. Of course, we have them in Lappeenranta and Kuusankoski, but at least in the region of Myllykoski we would need good new technologies that have the potential to produce high-quality biofuels.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u117	Madam President! A few observations here: The committee is concerned about the decrease in investment in research, development and innovation activities, which may contribute to weakening Finland's productivity development, raising export and value added and achieving the objectives set for industrial and innovation policy. In order to remain competitive, Finland needs significantly more new innovations and their channelling to practical activities. With innovations, we can increase economic growth and exports and repair business structures. The Committee attaches great importance to the Government's objective of turning the quality and effectiveness of research and innovation back into growth. There would be a very easy way to do this: to increase the money and not to reduce it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u120	President! Mr Laukkanen was quite right in this paradox just now that when we are trying to extend the working life and increase the retirement age, people in their 50s are being pushed away from working life. This doesn't make any sense in principle. The problem is serious and structural. The second structural issue is that of what the representative Mr Semi raised this issue of support for employment. Of course, I too believe that it is necessary right now to support employment, because this is the case. It is comparable, for example, to housing aid paid to a large number of people. I don't think anyone thinks the system is rational in itself, but you can't change it overnight. That would be unreasonable for these people. Here too, as in the previous section of the Ministry of Education, I point out the need for rational use of scarce resources. Savings should not always be considered as cuts in the level of service, but must also be able to use common sense and to improve the efficiency of the operating processes and methods in which work is done. For example, I myself studied the problems with the bureaucracy of the TE Offices involved in cooperative activities earlier in the year. It was inconceivable to hear. There seem to be two problems in the employment office for every solution. It can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u121	Mr President! I intended to thank Mr Lindström earlier in the day, but I did not have the opportunity to do so, so I thank the Minister now. I thank him for his decision, which will allow the civilian service centre to remain in Eastern Uusimaa, Lapland. The Lapinjärvi region and the municipality of Lapinjärvi have invested significantly in the activities of the Civil Service Centre over the years. The activities of the Centre have been developed with excellent results. In the early autumn, however, we received a worrying message that, at the official staircase, this would have planned to put an end to this activity in Lake Lapinjärvi and to transfer the activities of the civil service centre to Lahti. Since Lake Lapinjärvi still has all the prerequisites for the training of civil servants in a good and cost-effective way, we did not see the point in this transfer. It would have been a pointless policy of concentration, concentration in Lahti. The transfer would also have entailed additional costs and, in fact, it is certainly easier to find alternative use for the Senate properties located in Lahti than for the farms located in Lapland. Fortunately, the minister has made a sensible and lasting solution here as a whole, and I would also like to thank Mr Elo for his excellent cooperation on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u122	Madam President! Jobs created in Finland are mostly created in small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is therefore very important that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has seized their operating environment with a strong hand and direction during this government term. Here are some examples: The innovation voucher, as we heard this morning, has already brought 700 companies, specifically SMEs, into this category. This precisely strengthens cooperation with universities and research institutes in the R & D development of these SMEs. Very popular and new operating model. It is very important that these Tekes subsidies, which have generally been quite large-scale subsidies, are accompanied by more agile approaches such as the innovation voucher. Then, of course, payment-based VAT is very important for small and medium-sized enterprises in terms of cash flow in order to stop lending to the State, lending to the State. It is very important that we have done the same now. And an entrepreneur's deduction, of course. It is good that small entrepreneurs come into an equal position with larger entrepreneurs. The unemployment security of self-employed workers is changing and it is improving. At the moment, several tens of thousands are already on the road to self-employment, and it is very important that we respond to these changes in society, where there are more self-employed people all the time, and they too get on the same track with other workers and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u123	Madam President! A few points on behalf of Mr Tolppanen only: He doubted whether this system of employment money is now the right one for the government. I think it's the only one and the right one. If we simply concentrate on paying the cost of employment from the state budget, without creating new jobs and creating genuine growth in this country... It is quite clear that the current unemployment situation is far too high for this country. The government’s goal of reaching the level of employment of 72% of the workforce in 2019 is challenging, of course it is challenging. But now we have to work hard and hard to reduce the cost of unemployment. Every 10,000 people we get into working life is a saving of hundreds of millions in the state budget, and, above all, for these people, it is the power to save when they are able to build their own lives, to create the social relationships that arise in the workplace and, above all, to create pension security for themselves. For them, that is the only way for the future. If we look at the options offered by Mr Tolppanen as a mere payment of unemployment allowances, that is an extremely bad thing for this country in the long run. Of course, you take care of the unemployed and help them in a difficult situation, that's for sure. But on the side, at least as strong a hand must take forward a situation in which people are genuinely creating new jobs. Without work and entrepreneurship in this country, this current situation will not make it any easier. The way Finland has done this since 2008 took debt and debt on top of debt and paid off old debts with new debts has been completed. That is why I am very surprised that Mr Tolppanen is still making such speeches. But what is important is to keep the means of improving employment as the most important means at all times and to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u124	Mr President! The first objective of the Sipilä Government is to improve employment, and that is a really big goal. Only through the improvement of employment can we get the Finnish economy in order as well. The employment situation has recently improved slightly and is projected to improve further. The government has taken a number of steps to improve this situation, and the competitiveness agreement that has been reached has a major role to play in this. Thank you for that. The increase in employment, which has now been in front of us, has been very good, especially for the shipbuilding industry, and the greetings from New Town for applying for at least a thousand new workers is also very good. I hope that these projects will also be long-term in terms of improving employment, so that more employment can be achieved. Only in that area of New Town is the challenge of getting housing there, and it is hoped that the construction will take off in that area as well. Overall, construction, especially in that housing building, is almost overheated in sight, and there is a shortage of skilled Finnish builders in particular. It would be hoped that there will then be work for those unemployed Finnish builders that not all workers will come from that other side of the bay in Estonia. The Entrepreneurship Package will strengthen entrepreneurship and remove obstacles to entrepreneurship, and the government has had a lot of measures in this regard. In particular, the threshold for entrepreneurship has been lowered by a reduction in entrepreneurship. In conclusion, I would like to say that many other measures, which are not included in the budget, such as the dismantling of standards, play a major role in improving employment.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u125	Mr President! Firstly, we have to say that our employment rate has gradually improved and why it has not started to develop even faster is largely due to the fact that our industry is dependent on investment elsewhere. It has to be said that investment in Europe is not yet in full swing. It is therefore particularly important that government action supports small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are those who are currently employed. It is very rare for a company, at the start-up stage, to take in the tax books of several dozen workers at once and start employing them. Mr Laukkanen has raised the issue of unemployment among over 50-year-olds, and this is a serious problem. It is a waste of very important knowledge, and we should certainly make sure that this can be improved. These measures relating to the employment package — payment-based VAT, entrepreneurship reduction and innovation aid — are good incentives for entrepreneurs to venture to invest and discover the fruits of their own entrepreneurship so that they would then want to develop businesses more and more. It is regrettable, however, that we do not yet have enough so-called growth-oriented companies to encourage this growth-orientedness of companies, and in that sense these measures are extremely important.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u126	Mr President! Industrial output is growing by 3.5 per cent in Finland this year. GDP is growing, purchasing power is increasing. The Bank of Finland believes that Finland is now really on the road to growth. Even the evening newspapers had a similar message on Friday. We can be happy about that. In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Industry, there is a small but very important production aid, which is the production aid for the audiovisual sector, which will come into force next year, and it will enable Finland to join the majority of the European countries, which are clearly supporting the creative sector. International film productions reach Finland, and they are now easily lured here. This also provides a good basis for growth in the Finnish film industry and then also for land branding and tourism marketing. As early as today, there was talk in the Chamber of tourism and how it will also be invested in the Ministry of Economic Affairs through social media marketing funding, among other things, and this all supports one another. So now we have heard very good information about how international tourism websites have made Finland the most interesting tourist destination next year, partly thanks to our centenary celebration, but partly thanks to the fact that: The Nordic countries are a very interesting target about as usual. Iceland has been a few years ago, Sweden and Norway have already been before, and now, of course, it is Finland's turn. We must take our share of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u127	Mr President! I had the opportunity some time ago to be in a situation where our successful entrepreneurs under 30 were interviewed. There was such a panel with a wide range of influences involved, and the question was asked: What is the biggest obstacle to their employment? They all started laughing at each other and said in the choir, "The State of Finland." We still have a lot of work to do to try in this country to make it possible to bring in top experts from other parts of the world, for example, to build us those companies and such Supercell-type companies. When asked what has been the biggest problems for them, these entrepreneurs replied that they spend more than 50 percent of their time recruiting and then when they find a good person, this person does not get a work permit in Finland. That's great. I mean, yes, friends, we have a lot of work to do here. In other words, what I want to say is: More courageous action. At the end of the 1990s, when there was high unemployment in Canada, at a very rapid pace, they passed a law abolishing all social obligations in companies with fewer than three employees. It was a great thing to do and it brought work. One more point, and it is the long-term unemployed under the age of 25. How can a 25-year-old be long-term unemployed? Simply, he is not given opportunities. This is the second group to which we should pay particular attention.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u128	Chairman! Mr Laukkanen spoke well, as many other Members have done on this point. On this point, I would also like to thank the government once again for this entrepreneurial reduction. Some of the opposition has also criticised it, said that it would not have employment effects and cannot demonstrate it, but the fact is that today Finnish companies need positive signals to believe in the future, and this is an important element and a tool for it. Moreover, it also leads to fairer business taxation, and now that much is being said about constitutional rights, it should be remembered that it is good that entrepreneurs can also be on the same track. Another good project, which has been — and has been mentioned for a long time, and the preparatory work started during the last term of government — is this new system of crowdfunding. When we want — and we want — more growth companies in Finland and we need more growth companies, this is an excellent tool for a company with a shortage of capital to be able to obtain funding from the private sector through this system. I would encourage the government to promote this system even more effectively, especially for SMEs seeking growth. Then the last thing is how we can still help companies to become more international than they are at the moment. If we compare, for example, with the neighbouring country of Sweden, there are strong trademarks. In Finland, we have strong companies with good products, but the brand and brand of the company are still quite weak in the global market. That is why I would urge the government to also invest in helping businesses.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u129	Mr President! There has already been a great deal of talk about tourism today, but never enough in relation to what is the possibility of tourism, especially for the development of Lapland. The development of tourism in Lapland is currently the biggest bottleneck for land use, especially the use of state countries. Metsähallitus manages a significant part of the country suitable for tourism in Lapland, but when we worked on Metsähallitus law here last winter, there were not many words about tourism. In that regard, I noticed later that we did not see the land use issue of Metsähallitus at all, perhaps because tourism does not traditionally belong to the agricultural and forestry sector, but is purely a business activity. Therefore, in connection with this administrative sector of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, I will now raise the issue of land use issues of Metsähallitus. That is why we should consider how we would begin to make — or whose role it is now — a comprehensive plan for land use in the interests of tourism. Especially in Lapland, this is very important and important, and we should get this job moving now. We have a lot of bad experiences in recent times about how mixed up Metsähallitus has managed the use of this tourism sector. The sale of individual plots has been very expensive. Entrepreneurs have been unable to trust how these rent levels will be maintained, and this has simply prevented many entrepreneurs from investing in Lapland. Hopefully, we will now be able to take this forward, and in the future we will be able to see that this corporate governance also applies to the state's land use. I'd be fine in Lapland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u130	Mr President! In many business development projects, corporate financing has become a bottleneck, and unfortunately this is largely due to the fact that Basel agreements adopted by the European Union have raised bank self-sufficiency requirements to a level that has already significantly reduced banks' risk-taking capacity. That is why new instruments are needed to safeguard the financing of businesses, and one of the alternatives is what Mr Östman has just said here, this possibility of crowdfunding. It is extremely regrettable that a number of really good projects are being delayed and perhaps failed precisely because of the lack of funding. Fortunately, however, Finnvera, controlled by the State, has introduced products that have enabled many companies to be taken forward. To that entrepreneurship reduction, it is also very important for agriculture and forestry. It is estimated that for agriculture it will be around EUR 20 million, which will generate more income for entrepreneurs, and for forestry it will be around EUR 15 million. These are good additions to the plight of agriculture and forestry that currently exists in that sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u131	Mr President! In several speeches, attention has been paid to tourism and what is the possibility for Finland in tourism. It is indeed an important and worthy of promotion. In the discussions here, it has been stressed that tourism has a great opportunity for Northern Finland and Lapland. It is true, but it is also a great opportunity for Finland as a whole. There is plenty more visitors in Finland from all over the world. Take, for example, Saimaa in that southeastern Finland. It is still a completely untapped area for tourism, and there the cities around Saimaa are moving together to market it to the world as well. This is a very desirable and forward-looking issue. Similarly, we should take into account all of Finland's wonderful, beautiful nature, forests and their potential. That's where the foreign people are jealous of us. In his own speech, Mr Hoskonen raised the issue of the use of domestic wood. I also sincerely hope that we will be able to take that matter forward. With regard to this entrepreneurship package, I would like to say that there has been a significant improvement in access to finance for businesses during this term of government, and the government has put together a total of EUR 600 million in growth funding, which will improve risk financing for start-ups and growing companies in particular. That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u132	Mr President! I would very much like to join Mrs Torniainen in her speech on the positive aspects of Saimaa tourism and how there is still a great deal of potential there. But it is one of the most important aspects of Visit Finland, namely marketing and better exploitation of different island regions. However, I am talking more strongly about energy investments and Finland's new direction towards renewable energy, and in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Economic Affairs this has been strongly addressed, i.e. there are support opportunities for solar power and small regional application heat centres, as well as experiments such as geothermal heat and biogas projects. There has now been a lot of talk here about bioenergy and these opportunities and about the need to introduce side streams in the sawmill industry, as our energy and climate strategy, a few weeks ago, strongly talked about how we really need to introduce side streams and other logging waste so that we can then use it as fuel and energy. The 30% blending obligation for biofuels will increase Finnish energy self-sufficiency to a great extent by 2030 and will have a significant impact on the current account. Energy is so big in terms of the current account that even small changes of this kind have a strong impact on it and do bring a lot of jobs to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u133	Mr President! This reduction in entrepreneurship has given rise to intense debate in one direction or another. I've been wondering about the tone of the conversation. Incomprehensible speeches have been made, at least on the part of the opposition, that it is supposed to be unfair or to favour some. After all, during the last parliamentary term, corporate tax was reduced from 24.5% to 20, and its impact on central government finances was about EUR 800 million minus, but slightly less than EUR 1 billion. And then there's the other thing: This entrepreneurial deduction is, in a sense, now in the case of partnerships, so that these listed companies and then these unlisted small entrepreneurs are now being put on the same line with this reform. So now both have about that tax reduction done. It is only right that it should be done now, and I am surprised at the position I have heard in many speeches that this is supposed to make millionaires or favour some. Every small Finnish entrepreneur with a healthy economy and profits — only a profit-making company can hire more workers. If the company makes a loss, it is quite certain that sooner or later it will reduce some of the workforce, at its worst it will stop altogether. It is not the intention that the Finnish Parliament should be involved in such activities that we should reduce the number of business jobs? Yes, the direction to be taken must be that companies are profitable, they are producing and paying wages that will generate tax revenue and many other good things for this society. Hopefully, one day in this house we will come to the idea that even a small entrepreneur is valuable to this country, what it really is. Without that input, the strong contribution of small entrepreneurs, rising from the current recession in this country, which is gradually emerging, will not succeed.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u134	Mr President! The tourism sector employs approximately 140,000 people in Finland, and tourism accounts for about 2.5 per cent of GDP. The tourism sector also has significant multiplier effects for other sectors, such as construction, transport and trade. It is estimated that one tourist euro will bring 56 cents of added value to other industries. In 2015, the income of foreign tourists left in Finland amounted to over EUR 4 billion, i.e. it is really a significant domestic industry. However, it is now the case that Finnish tourism continues to lose market shares compared to other Nordic countries. One of the reasons for this unsatisfactory situation may be that the state has not invested as much in promoting tourism in Finland as in other Nordic countries. Our market share has decreased despite the fact that studies show that Finland’s attractiveness as a tourist country has increased. In other words, we have so far not been able to turn this increased interest into the euro that is to be settled through tourism. I am therefore very pleased with the increase of EUR 530000 in funding for Visit Finland. This amount will be used for marketing in new channels, social media. I think it's the right thing to do. We cannot be out of these new communication and marketing channels, which young people, in particular, are acquiring a growing share of their information. I therefore believe that with this kind of social media advertising, the increased interest of foreign tourists can be converted into Finnish jobs and tax revenues.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u135	Section 31 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications is now presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u136	Mr President! In the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, a number of reforms or studies are under way to achieve far-reaching impacts on society and the economy as a whole. One of the most important is the transport network project to reform the development and financing of the transport network. The purpose is to transfer the tasks related to the management, development and maintenance of the routes to the establishment of a state-owned company. Further preparation will need to clarify how Parliament’s influence and decision-making powers related to the development and maintenance of the fairway network will be safeguarded in the event of the transfer of the fairway network to the ownership of a company operating outside the state budget. EUR 1.3 billion will be allocated to basic infrastructure management next year, including an additional EUR 304 million to reduce the so-called repair debt. An additional EUR 600 million will be allocated for the reduction of the repair debt for the years 16 to 18, and EUR 364 million will be transferred from development project funding to basic infrastructure management between 17 and 19. The increase in appropriations will mean an increase in the volume of basic bus maintenance by around 20% next year. That is EUR 204.6 million compared to the current year. Mr President! However, the Committee believes that despite the financing of the correction debt, there is a great deal of road sections, intersections, interconnectors and so on throughout the country where road safety has deteriorated. The committee therefore adds EUR 5.95 million to this item and allocates it to nine basic road safety management projects. The Committee considers it important to ensure that the financing of basic infrastructure management is adequate in the longer term. The total amount of the correction debt is estimated at approximately EUR 2.5 billion and will increase by approximately EUR 100 million per year. In order to avoid further growth in the correction debt, it is necessary to ensure that the funding is as stable and long-term as possible. The Committee welcomes the fact that the allocation for this item has taken into account the funding for the design of the high-speed rail link between Helsinki and Turku. According to the decision of the 16 spring spending limits, a total of EUR 40 million has been allocated for the period 17 to 20 for the extension of the so-called hour train, of which EUR 10 million will be allocated for next year. Mr President! Restoration debt financing is also directed towards private roads. In line with the Government's guidelines, a total increase of EUR 30 million will be allocated to state grants for private roads between 17 and 19. In the Committee's view, it is problematic that, in addition to the major transport projects decided in the spring, there are no other new development projects in sight, as neither the Government has prepared a transport policy report nor any other long-term development plan. In the Committee's view, the government should ensure and decide on the long-term development of the transport network, as decisions on transport investment and timing of investments have significant economic implications. The committee also draws attention to the development needs of project evaluation. The Committee believes that project evaluation should be developed in such a way that decision-making is based on a wide-ranging assessment which takes better account of the impact of transport projects on business life, land use and labour markets, and road safety. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Finnish Transport Agency has already prepared a preliminary report on this matter. Mr President! An appropriation of EUR 84.5 million is proposed for the purchase and development of public transport services, which corresponds to the level of the current year. From this point of view, EUR 30.2 million will be allocated to rail transport purchases and EUR 33.5 million for regional and local transport purchases, price obligations and development. The Committee is pleased that the Ministry of Transport and Communications has increased train services in its decision on compulsory train traffic. This restores a large proportion of the previously closed train services and improves the efficiency of commuting, in particular, as well as of the connections used by students. The decision has only been taken for one year because the Ministry is preparing to open up competition for rail passenger transport. The Committee considers it important to secure Enontekio's air services for the sake of Enontekio and the vitality of the region and believes that, in addition to tourism, air transport also supports the objectives of the Finnish Arctic Strategy. The committee adds EUR 50000 to this item for the security of Enontekio's air services. The committee also considers it necessary that the funding of YLE be organised in the manner proposed by the parliamentary working group and transferred outside the spending limits of central government finances in the spring of 17 of the next budgetary plan for the years 18 to 21. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister, the section members and the committee advisers for their excellent cooperation during the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u137	Secretary Berner, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u138	Mr President! In addition to many other aspects of transport and communication policy, this autumn can be described as a full-time, lively debate and opening up new perspectives. The draft budget follows the guidelines of the Government Programme. The promotion and exploitation of digitalisation in improving productivity and effectiveness is seen as a strong red thread in the entire draft budget. The proposal includes additional investments and adjustment measures in accordance with the Government Programme. The Government's big guidelines on growth and fiscal consolidation are strongly relevant to transport and communication. The Government has submitted a proposal to Parliament for the first phase of the traffic cycle, and the preparation of the second stage of the arc is underway. There are also a number of studies on which decisions will be taken next year and which, if implemented, mean significant changes in the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications as well as in society as a whole. In total, approximately EUR 3.2 billion will be allocated to the administrative sector of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The most significant of these are basic transport infrastructure management of around EUR 1.3 billion, transport investments of EUR 434 million, state aid to improve the competitiveness of maritime vessels of around EUR 100 million, public transport services of EUR 84 million and transfer to the State Television and Radio Fund of EUR 508 million. The central government correction debt for transport routes was EUR 2.4 billion when this government started its operations. According to the Government Programme, a clear focus is on the condition of the existing network. During the Government term, nearly EUR 1 billion of financing for repairs is available, while a total of EUR 364 million from the investment allocation will be transferred from the additional EUR 600 million to basic bus maintenance and to the state aid for private roads. Without additional investment, the debt would continue to grow rapidly. An additional EUR 600 million has been committed in 2016 to offset the correction debt by EUR 100 million, EUR 187 million in 2017 and EUR 313 million in 2018. As a change to the original plan from 2017, EUR 113 million was transferred to 2018. The transfer of appropriations was the result of a periodic change in the financing of the transport network repair debt programme. However, this transfer does not jeopardise the planned measures for the recovery of the debt. It should be noted that the measures selected have an impact on safety and the environment. Effectiveness is monitored with indicators, including safety and environmental aspects. The Finnish Transport Agency is an expert agency that reports in a transparent and up-to-date manner on the measures taken and their effectiveness. In addition: The Finnish Transport Agency is currently working on the development of an impact assessment. The committee's increase of EUR 5.95 million in nine basic road safety management projects is a welcome increase, for which I would like to thank Parliament. We have a clear common understanding: transport connections are vital to our industry and to the smooth running of every day of our lives. Transport needs to be constantly reformed in order to be able to provide an adequate level of service now and in the future. Reform requires a joint effort and a wide-ranging debate. In accordance with the decision on spending limits adopted in spring 2016, four new development projects will be launched in 2017. In addition, next year's budget will launch Pori-Mäntyluoto-Electrification. The total cost of further planning of the Helsinki-Turku high-speed rail link will be EUR 40 million between 2017 and 2020. However, the Finnish transport network is not yet complete. Improvement measures are needed in many places, and the rapid automation of traffic may also require major improvements to the infrastructure. It is therefore important that we find out how the infrastructure can be financed in the future. Transport subsidies will remain at the current level of the year, which will ensure the maintenance of services at the current level. EUR 84 million will be allocated to the purchase and development of public transport services. No index check will be carried out on the level of funding for the public radio next year. The freezing of the index is justified in the light of the general economic situation. According to a proposal from the YLE parliamentary working group, the funding of YLE must be outside the spending limits of central government finances. In order to ensure the independence of YLE, it is justified that the public service tax is not included in the framework of central government finances. This proposal is intended to be taken into account when the Government decides on central government spending limits in spring 2017.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u139	Now is the opportunity to request replies using the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u140	Mr President! This government budget contains good things, and one of the most important is the increase in basic infrastructure funding. That is an important point; it should be mentioned immediately as a thank-you. An hour after we discuss the train, we'll figure it out. There have already been such views that the target time of the hour will not be reached with this current equipment, so perhaps you could look a little further into the future. So in this context, is the Hyperloop plan also one of the options? The cable on the north-east bus looks positive at the moment. Is there any way to speed it up and get these data centers to Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u141	Mr President! On top of that, I would like to ask: when will the current government begin to respect the decision of the Satose Group and take back Yle's funding outside the spending limits? Today, too, in this debate, we heard that this would happen in the spring, but whether it will happen in the spring, because it is really beginning to believe, and even in the light of this topical debate, the government has a responsibility to further strengthen Yle's independence. Let's take a quick look at the tracks. You, Minister Berner, spoke at the beginning of the parliamentary term in favour of cuts in purchasing services and the rapid opening-up of competition. Already cut traffic has been returned through VR’s exclusive obligation traffic. In the morning's newspapers, we have read the Ministry's consideration of the terms of the competition. In the past, Minister, you have said that opening up competition does not require any legislative changes. But I think reality is different. When will you bring the conditions for opening this competition to a public debate? Are you going to allow rail companies to compete on track, or are you going to auction only the activities of the state-owned company per region? Such questions arise at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u142	Mr President! As Minister Berner said, gas has been put into various transport and communication projects in the transport and communications sector during this parliamentary term, and that is good. The Sipilä government will be in history as a sponsor of major transport projects so that we will put our national property in better shape than it was years ago. It is with this EUR 1 billion in debt financing that we will get ports, roads, railways in a better condition than they are at the moment, but not forgetting that new transport infrastructure investments will bring work and activity to Finland as a whole, and not forgetting to improve the financing of private roads by EUR 10 million. These are big investments for which we can thank this government, but there is still a lot of work to be done on the roads, and in the years to come we will want similar investments in these.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u143	Mr President! Finland is digitised quickly, so fast that security is easily forgotten. The Finnish Communications Agency, its Cert function, is a lot of security in monitoring the security of Finnish information networks. However, its resources are pathetically small compared to the responsibility and importance of the task for Finnish society. Have you ever wondered how dependent we are on the undisturbed operation of the information networks? If you don't run a bit, you won't be able to get electricity, water, or food either. As hybrid threats become more common and as the network of objects develops, the significance of Cert becomes more important. We must be able to secure the functioning of Finnish information networks, including Finnish society in exceptional situations. It requires resources that may seem large, but not even fire brigades are measured according to a peaceful night, but according to a major emergency, and Cert is the fire department of the Finnish information society. How do you intend to secure our secure network with these resources?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u144	Mr President! I have to say that the government and Minister Berner have managed very well to make a balanced and good proposal for a budget at this difficult and limited time. It is great to see that we have major road projects, major infrastructure projects such as Highway 5, Mikkeli-Juva, Luumäki-Imatra-Russian border, and so on. These are projects that will certainly improve the quality of Finnish transport infrastructure. Of course, there are new plans coming in the winter. After all, we have now dealt with the traffic cycle number one, and I would like to hear the Minister's plans for the next steps in the traffic cycle, with what timetable and with what content they are coming. All in all, I consider this draft budget to be a good, useful one. I would also like to make it clear that it would have been a good idea to have this scrapping premium on board, and of course it must be said,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u145	Mr President! The good thing about the budget is that the renovation debt of the basic transport network is reduced as agreed and that money has also been found in the budget for smaller but very important road safety projects, such as the Raahe and Haapavesi projects. Thank you for this, of course, for those who have contributed to the budget in the Committee on Budgets and otherwise. However, there is still great concern about the situation of public transport, both in cities and especially in sparsely populated rural areas, where too often the only alternative to moving to work and hobbies is your own car, as well as in our family. If your own car is the only means of mobility, the cost of using it must not become an obstacle to work, to the hobbies of children or to study. I would like to ask you, Minister: how affordable is mobility possible in a sustainable way for all citizens regardless of their place of residence?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u146	Mr President! The payment experiment planned by the Ministry of Transport and Communications for joint vessels in the archipelago has been the subject of a wide consultation which ended last Friday and, in particular, this level of fees, the payment table, has received very strong criticism. Payments would be at their worst tens of thousands of euros a year according to this payment table. But there is also criticism of the idea of creating a competitive market in an area where in practice there is no market and there cannot be a market all year round. Has the Minister had time to learn about this feedback, the material, and what his first impression of that feedback is?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u147	Mr President! Jobs must be created everywhere in Finland, and even from the point of view of the opposition one can acknowledge this additional funding for basic bus maintenance, but then on the other hand I am extremely concerned about the manner in which these transport links are being weakened on these basic routes. In other words, these public transport connections must be secured, if necessary, as purchasing services throughout Finland. I would therefore like to know more from the Minister that once these VR purchasing services have been weakened and bus services have also been reduced, how do these prospects look from the point of view of sparsely populated areas? How can it be ensured that commuting can also be carried out there, or is it the only alternative? Finally, perhaps I should like to say that it is a good thing that the Mikkeli-Juva interval from Vitostie should be corrected, but what is the timetable for moving from it to the north? So we'd have to go all the way to Leppävirta.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u148	Mr President! Finland needs more work. In order to get more work, investment is needed and the basic infrastructure of society works, including transport connections. A good example of this is the Ringway and the West Metro, which, according to the construction industry's assessment, have only an impact on the growth of construction, because up to half of the total increase in construction is due to these transport investments. Mr President! Therefore, the representative: The VR position raised by the trout is now very important. First of all, you were acting as a shoplifter. Since then, you have cancelled them or replaced them with an increase in VR's obligation traffic, but you will only do it one year at a time, and today the West Media reports that you want to terminate this VR agreement on passenger transport as soon as possible or at least earlier than has been said so far. How long in the provinces
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u149	Mr President! A well-functioning, safe and functional comprehensive transport network is a prerequisite for the functioning and growth of society, and it is a very good thing that this government has taken this idea seriously. At the same time, the common will of all parties is being implemented, as last season the parliamentary correction debt task force in its report drew attention to three important issues: It was the debt relief, which is now being implemented. The second was 'new financing models for investment', which are now being developed through the transport network project. The third important point was that long-term planning beyond parliamentary term should be achieved in transport planning, and there are plans for that too. It would be important to develop the transport network, which is important for the functioning of society, by means of parliamentary unity, with the mandate given to this last period.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u150	Mr President! At the moment, at the Ministry of Transport and Communications, we are wearing a drag that certainly has not been in history. Thank you, Minister, and your strength. I must say that many things are now like, if compared, at night and during the day. It was night last season. It's daytime. For example, this debt reduction of EUR 1 billion is a hard word when it is known that the objective is, as the Committee on Budgets has said, to continue. Of these development projects: Now these development projects are all in Finland. Support the vitality and development of the provinces, not only in one region of Finland but in the whole of Finland, and what is important is also invested in the private road. There has been a lot of talk about the bioeconomy here, and that means that the fairway network must also be in good condition on the private road. To the opposition, I would say that you should wait for the presentations, study them, and not all of you should shoot down first and then ask yourself whether this was good or bad. This kind of friendly instruction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u151	Mr. Speaker! Indeed, in the Transport Section, the satisfaction of this draft budget has been horrified. Transport and communication are an extremely important part of this social renewal and are now on the move. Thank you to the Minister and the Government. Now it's happening. The time of stagnation is over. It is particularly important that funding is available for basic infrastructure management, and it is even more important that the correction debt can finally be reduced. It has grown up for decades, and for the first time in history it is being seized and shortened. This is extremely important. Employment, growth, safety and the smooth running of transport are the values that we must promote, and with this budget it will be realised. Problems remain: Vaajakoski section in Central Finland, motorway section north of Jyväskylä
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u152	Mr President! It is true that this government is now adding money, as proposed by the corrective debt group, and that is a good thing. But then, of course, you have to remember the other side. There will now be little more development money for this parliamentary term. The only money that comes is the Railway-Joker to the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and the City of Tampere Raikatka. So the rest of Finland will be left without development money during this government. Looking at Finland at the moment, the most important thing is to improve the operating conditions of industry throughout Finland. If our three provinces, Ostrobothnia, Southern Ostrobothnia and Central Ostrobothnia, are currently the fastest developing region in Finland, five important projects would have been, but there will be no information to move these projects forward during this reign.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u153	Mr President! Mr Rantakangas called for a constructive approach from the opposition parties, and it will come from here if we only get the speeches, but when you big parties get so many speeches compared to us, then these praises rarely come. [Second Vice-President, Arto Satonen : All right, Mr Östman has the floor. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u155	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u156	Mr President! In fact, the government is rather doctrinal. It will improve competitiveness and make major public investment in the road this time. And in my opinion, thank you always belong where it actually belongs, which is, yes, thanks to this corrective debt working group that has worked during the last parliamentary term. That was parliamentary, so all the parties were able to produce a unanimous paper. We must also thank the ministers back then, they welcomed this paper, and now it is reflected in these big investments all over Finland. Last spring, 600 million were put into projects to promote road safety and, in particular, the smooth running of transport, and now a little more was put in place. Yes, this government actually, as Mrs Rantakangas said, gets this kind of historical medal that it has turned a twenty years of neglect of property clearly into a new faith, but it requires that:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u157	Representative, Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr Kalli.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u158	Mr. Speaker! During the previous debate, we had a debate on how to create more investment, entrepreneurship and Finnish work. At least the Minister of Transport, Mr Berner, cannot blame himself for not trying to create the conditions for his part so that predictability, the condition of the network and the functioning of the whole of Finland in the future would be better. That is why I too share the thanks that have been expressed here, and it is hoped that improvements in the transport sector will contribute to the strengthening and strengthening of the wind that is now on the horizon. Of course, a little disappointment is that this repair debt periodicity program is a little out of focus, but when it does, that too is a good thing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u159	Now Minister Berner, and there are so many questions that we will take 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u160	Mr President! Thank you for your questions and feedback. I will start with this security issue because it was the only question that related to communication. It is clear that information security is an issue that will increasingly affect our future, our operational security, our security of supply and also our competitiveness from the point of view of companies. From this point of view, it is important that we are able to provide additional funding for Havaro activities in the future and also ensure that expertise, education and voluntary activities are created in Finland between companies and FICORA, so that we can genuinely create the world's most secure environment. A Government decision on information security has been taken, and now we must see that next year we will be able to implement it. Of course, there is a need for more visibility in the future for repair debt and basic infrastructure management and development projects. During this reign we have had historically low funds available for both basic bus maintenance and development projects. It has also required a great deal of reflection and reflection on how to secure infrastructure funding in a long-term way, increase predictability and also ensure that we can genuinely secure the forms of mobility and investments in Finland in the future. To this end, a comprehensive transport network survey and the related financial statement will be carried out, together with a vision of what kind of infrastructure investments Finland needs in the future. The Transport Network Survey is about to be completed by the end of this year and will be discussed next spring. Esko Aho, Lauri Lyly and Inka Mero's vision, Finland 2050, of what kind of infrastructure Finland needs, will be completed by the end of March. It is also important to hold a parliamentary debate on how long-term predictability for infrastructure investments can be created in Finland. Public transport is at the heart of our efforts. In particular, the Transport Code is a project aimed at increasing services by exploiting digitalisation, but also by enabling combined transport of passengers, goods and mail and by creating better conditions for entrepreneurship. The aim is to ensure that public transport services are improved for all parties throughout the country, particularly in sparsely populated areas, and that they are also profitable to produce. The Transport Code will enter into force on 1.7.2018 if the Parliament so approves. It will also make it possible, hopefully, to make real use of the funds for purchasing where they also bring the most benefits. In the case of rail transport, the Government has responded in its interim question answer in October 2015 to the fact that rail transport will be opened up to competition. This does not mean that supply is decreasing; it means that supply will be increased. It also makes it possible to increase regional traffic. This is also very important in view of the regional reform as a whole, where the regions will also be the organisers of transport in the future. It will then be possible to create more commuter rail services and also, through competitive tendering, to ensure that the funds used for purchasing transport are genuinely used effectively and that we get the best value for money. The opening of competition does not require legislation. This is a matter of agreement between VR and the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and therefore we do not need any legislative changes at this point. On the other hand, we have carried out a comprehensive study of the conditions for competitive tendering for rail transport, and all independent studies will produce the same result: competitive rail transport will increase efficiency on our tracks, will also provide more supply and services. This whole is also extremely important when we look at our energy and climate strategy, in which, however, our goal is to ensure, through transport, that we reduce emissions significantly in transport, but one quarter of which we want to achieve by improving public transport services, using the traffic curve, by increasing competition. This will enable us to achieve better services and also ensure that transport is able to achieve a very demanding objective of reducing emissions from transport. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u161	We will continue to debatt; you can reserve your speeches by pressing the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u162	Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for being honest when you say that during this regime there is a historically low level of resources available and that there is basic transport... Moreover, I am afraid of this market-based thinking. I, Minister, would warn you a little that during the last term of government both the left and the coalition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u163	Mr President! Indeed, thanks have come from the traffic field for handling this repair debt. It's really historical money. But we need money for development projects, and one of them is the Helsinki-Atlantic road, which means that the Finnish industry would like to take goods to Kvarken on route three, over and above the new ships that come there, and then always to Norway with large tonnages. There is also a desire from Norway and Sweden to transport goods to Russia via Finland when the sanctions will eventually stop. I would like to ask the Minister: now that the transport network companies are being developed and opened up, could it be thought that Third Street would really be a pilot project for Live Oy? It serves the three to five provinces, and it would be very important for Finland as a whole to make this export go away. Above all, we would see this as a major step forward so that the Hämeenkyrö bypass can now also get its money, so that large trucks do not have to travel in the middle of the village around the roundabouts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u164	Mr President! Yes, praise must be given for the determination to maintain the basic route and reduce the debt to repair, but in the same breath it must be noted that the development projects are falling behind the previous pace and may also be a risk of receiving TENs. We need large-scale development project decisions so that we can also maximise possible aid from the European Union. We must also thank these rail transport solutions, both the Rail-Joker and the Tampere tram and the former metro extension. And, as Mrs Kiuru said here, the social impact of transport projects must indeed be much more widely appreciated. They enable economic growth, enable the development of urban structures, housing and so on. So it is right to build where there is growth and buzz and not where the new project is hoped to be.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u165	Mr President! The traffic cycle will enter into force in July 2018, and the Minister mentioned the first stage here. With regard to the regulation of the taxi sector, it is noteworthy that the taxi industry retains its licence, that the taxi operator must have its seat in Finland, that the company must have a Finnish business code, that the cars must be registered in Finland and that drivers must know enough Finnish. Drivers must also be able to serve special groups such as disabled people and pensioners — well done. And I think there is plenty of time for entrepreneurs to adapt to reform. I would like to ask the Minister: Despite all these good measures, there is still a great deal of concern for taxi operators as to whether the people from the south of the Gulf of Finland will be doing this important work for them, which they have reliably done. How do you respond to this concern expressed by taxi companies?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u166	Mr President! It is important that particular attention be paid to the issue of repair debt in this proposal, because the blood vessels for the state are the road and bus network as a whole. The billion-dollar investment in this is a good start, and I hope there will be a continuation of this in the coming years. Among other things, representative Harry Wallin drew attention to the fact that there will be no significant new investments in the Oulu region. Yes, there is a big solution for the new projects of the current season, i.e. there are big projects in the north. It also affects the region of Seinäjoki, and trains move there. In other words, this government proposal is very similar to that of the whole country, for which I thank you very much. The renovation debt overall and the private road money and these are the issues that will be resolved in the coming year during Infra Oy's investigation. I therefore hope that the Finnish road network will be better protected in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u167	Värderade Herr Talman! För det första tackar jag ministern för att ministeret och ministern fördomsfritt försöker utnyttt ja digitiseringens öjligheter, och på det sättet skapa en grund för tillväxt i vårt land. Jag har ändå TVå frågor.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u168	Mr President! Mr Blomqvist asked about the same issue, i.e. this aid for broadband construction. In 2009, there was this law, and now that investment has been made, it has become that, now that reform is being turned on to that law, it will support the investment more than before, but there has been a lot of work that has been done with tens of millions of investments and debt taken on, and now it would have been more comfortable not to invest and expect this better gift from the state. I would have asked the Minister: is there anything to be done about this, or is debt paid?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u169	Mr President! In the light of recent events, we can say that it is very important that Finnish media is independent and that Finns can rely on media independence. I am referring here, of course, to this YLE and to the importance of ensuring long-term funding for YLE, and so on, that it is not really a government radio, but we always remember the principle that it is a radio for Parliament and for the citizens. These issues are very important and today we cannot overemphasize them. That is why, Mr President, my question now relates to the fact that we are talking about the state budget, that it is good and important that there is a commitment, as it were, that this should come into the framework by spring at the latest, but that is not enough, Mr President, Mr Minister, that is not enough. We are talking here and now about the state budget, and this transfer of Yle funding outside the spending limits
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u170	Mr President! It is true that YLE is a radio subject to Parliament and the parliamentary working group prepared the specific proposals that are now being implemented in YLE. I know that the Minister has carefully explained when this transfer can be made outside the framework. It's all over the place now. You should believe the facts when you tell them honestly. I would like to extend warm thanks to the Minister for a sector which he has dealt with with with great vigour, determination and a very strong view of the future. This is the kind of approach we need in order for us to be able to cope in the future. These major projects, which now employ people all over Finland, have been one of the reasons why Finland is on the rise today and people are returning to belief in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u171	Mr President! In previous speeches, there has already been a slight disregard for cyber and information security issues, and on this theme I would like to continue, namely cyber and information security activities, which are essential for critical functions in society. In addition to public administration, the level of cyber and information security of Finnish companies in particular must be good. The EC consultant published a questionnaire on corporate information security and cyber-attack protection. A total of 1735 companies around the world replied to the questionnaire. Eighty-six per cent of these respondents considered that their company’s cybersecurity management was not fully in line with business needs, while 57 per cent said that the company had recently experienced a significant disruption or attack in the field of information security. I would ask the Minister: how could the ministry support the preparedness of Finnish companies for cyber threats?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u172	Mr President! Laputian delays in the delivery of mail have caused many people to spill over. Many days late invitations to a doctor, old editions and cancellations due to late invitations have not only caused regret but also costs. I also recently heard of a young woman who had received an invitation by post for a job interview, and when she had not received this letter, the roughness snapped. Fortunately, then, through hard work, he managed to make this right, but these are very difficult things in people’s everyday lives. Lapland has served as a front-runner for this Posti reform, when the post office has been distributed how it happens, even though the law requires five days of distribution. This stubborn action by Post has given the Lapps a taste of what the transition to three-day distribution would mean in practice. Last season, Minister Kiuru did not let Posti live on this five-day distribution, and I hope that this is the same line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u173	Mr President! Over the past year, we have had a lot of difficulties with the delivery of mail. At the moment, then, there is also the Christmas rush. It has been said from the post that we are trying to find out as well as possible. We are living in a very difficult and difficult time when the amount of mail to be delivered, the volume of universal postal service, has decreased very much and is decreasing all the time, we are going more and more to electronic activity. Which one of us last sent a non-Christmas card through the Post? Now that Posti's profitability is deteriorating, we have had to consider what new operating models should be made in Posti. We all need to continue to receive mail and, indeed, we in the peripheral regions of Lapland will have to do so in the future. And now that Posti's law reform is under way, the plan is that we too will continue to receive that post properly every single weekday. Now I'm gonna ask you: If we did not now begin making changes, what would happen next year, would Christmas mail come on time? And the following year, would there be any further opportunity for us to distribute that mail properly?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u174	I will give the floor to the representatives of Ihalainen and Kaikkonen, and then the Minister's reply, and then the next round of debatables.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u175	Mr President! In this previous theme, there was much talk of our growth conditions and improvement. In this respect, I would like to see something done to ensure this growth, to ensure a good cycle. — — — — I wish they could listen to this stuff in the hall.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u178	Mr President! Despite my relatively young age, however, I am already fourth throughout the Parliament, and one of the things that through these years has come to the field very often, is how it is possible that when a small and poor Finland has built this kind of road network, which we have, we cannot afford to keep it up. How can it fall apart every year? This has been received and, admittedly, this has been a question to which I have not really been able to answer how it really has been. I think it has been a question of not having the political will to pay attention to this and to allocate resources to it. But it is now. The government is making a billion-dollar investment to pay off the debt. It can be said that it is already an historic solution, because in years, in a long time, nothing has been done about this. Now the government has given Minister Berner the tools to influence this issue and he also uses them. Thank you for that line.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u179	Secretary Berner, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u180	Mr President! I am trying to cover widely all the different areas that have been covered in this debate. Yle will be moved outside the spending limits and after the many questions I have been asked, I will always say the same answer that it is only possible to move it in the context of the spending limits negotiations. I have told the government many times that we are following the wishes of the Yle parliamentary group here, and I will see to it that it will be observed. As far as the transport of the archipelago is concerned, there is a variety of feedback. It is understood that more flexibility and different services are needed. It is also understood that additional services are needed for tourists during the summer. At the same time, there is concern about how services can be maintained outside the summer season. I believe that once we have looked at the feedback, we will find a solution that will satisfy both the needs of tourism promotion and then the need for regular customers, which they have all year round. The issue of broadband is very important to us. We want to make sure that Finland is digitised and that our business life can genuinely grow in an environment that is made possible by digitalisation. This also means that we must be well equipped to develop 5G and we must also ensure that our fixed broadband is genuinely adequately covered throughout the country. To this end, we have negotiated a joint investment programme with private sector players, or rather by creating an opportunity for the private sector to invest and the government to reduce standards and enable the conditions for faster construction. This has resulted in a partnership agreement of EUR 1 billion, which will be invested in over the next eight years, and investment has now started. In this context, the government is also going through the regulation of the broadband project, and we have tabled a bill aimed at reducing the conditions for support for subsidised broadband construction and thus improving access to high-speed broadband, especially in small and sparsely populated areas. This programme is now seeking to reduce what has been done in the past and at the same time make new investments more possible. Preparing for cyber threats is a starting point that has been very much discussed by industry lately. Here is the Government Resolution on Information Security. At the same time, continuous interaction with industry on how to promote capacity in enterprises is also sought. This requires both increasing knowledge and improving the services of FICORA and more closely serving individual companies and not just those who are key to security of supply. This is where we are trying to invest in the better, and we are currently carrying out a study of the agencies to see how this change, which is going to take place, can be better influenced. The Postal Act and the Postal Law reform are genuinely aimed at maintaining our five-day distribution throughout the country. However, we want to make it possible for Posti to adapt better to the fact that, as the number of letters bearing the stamp, which are subject to universal service obligations, are being reduced all the time, the regulation of Posti will be reduced in this respect. That is why we have started from the fact that, when urban areas currently have between 5 and 7 days of distribution on market terms, but there is no such distribution in sparsely populated areas, this means that we can allow Posti to be better adapted to the changed situation, but we expect Posti to competitiveise the service in sparsely populated areas so that there is a genuine guarantee of five-day distribution in both cities and sparsely populated areas at all times. I personally believe that we need more investment. Mr Ihalainen's idea that we should be able to find common solutions for investment between the private and public sectors is part of this transport network study that is currently being carried out. The aim is for us to be able to make decisions on it either during the spending limits or in the mid-term review. The electrification of transport is one of the key objectives and will be presented early in the year, in which way we will be able to achieve the Government's objective of promoting electronic transport as part of the energy and climate strategy. What we could do better, and why we are in such a situation that often feels that our infrastructure will not be allowed
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u181	Mr President! During this term of government, Finland has undergone a very significant change of direction in order to put roads and tracks in order. The big change is that we are now investing more and more in basic bus maintenance and stopping the year-on-year renovation debt of our bus system, which is about 2.5 billion. It is a good thing that we are now investing in basic infrastructure management. Some 300 transportway projects bring work and livelihood to Finland as a whole and also improve people's traffic safety. They miss it. It is also noteworthy that there will be an additional allocation of 10 million per year for the renovation of private roads. New, large transport infrastructure projects will also start next year, including highway 4 Oulu-Kemi, highway 5 Mikkeli-Juva, highway 12 Lahti South Ring Road, double track Luumäki-Imatra, and, Mr Wallin, these are not in the vicinity of Ring Three. These are all over Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u182	Mr President! As regards these road transport projects and infrastructure projects, there has been a good debate here on the way in which they are precisely the engines of growth and the drivers of growth. In that sense, it is certainly appropriate to thank the Government and the Minister for the fact that next year the planning budget will also be available for the planning of a new high-speed train connection between Helsinki and Turku, and if you look at that project in the wider sense, it is precisely the Stockholm-Petersburg growth corridor that is at stake. It is also possible to obtain EU funding for this project, and it would be a key project for both employment and labour mobility, and certainly a big positive signal for housing production. I hope this goes smoothly. Then I would have asked the same question as Mr Blomqvist pointed out that how the electrification of the Hanko- Hyvinkää track is moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u183	Mr President! In addition to this year and the beginning of next year, Minister, I would have looked a little further into the wider future. One of the major issues of the climate and energy strategy is electric cars and the electrification of transport, but also the emission reduction targets, which are particularly strong for the transport sector. What means do you see, Minister, that we will be able to achieve in the next few years? By 2030 at the latest, 250,000 electric cars and perhaps biogas cars — what does that mean for the infrastructure? Perhaps from a tax point of view, perhaps from the point of view of the transport network company, what does that mean in order to achieve this objective?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u184	Mr President! I would like to express my warm thanks to Mr Berner for the fact that this package of debt corrections, which has now been decided, is exceptionally evenly distributed across the country. I understand that in some provinces it is felt that there was a need for more funding, but I have the impression that there are objective criteria behind this assessment. Especially as a Lapp, we should be particularly pleased that more than ten per cent of the value of this package came to us there, but we have had needs and pent-up needs, as I am sure all over Finland. I would like to return to the question that has already been raised here, which relates to the north-east cable, the data cable from Europe through Finland to Asia. I would like to ask the Minister: what does this project look like and what are perhaps the next steps in this very important project?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u185	Mr President! It is absolutely excellent that Minister Berner has now taken a very firm approach to this backwardness in basic infrastructure management and that, in line with the Government Programme, significant increases have been made in the allocation of funds for better road and track management. In this debate, I have wondered at the speeches made by a few demersals when I feel that the money has not come. For example, Mrs Kiuru’s speech felt that there was little money for basic bus maintenance. I was wondering what budget book he's reading, but hopefully he'll find the right book on his shelf in the next few days. What is important here is that the direction has changed. It is truly visible in the provinces, and last summer it was already visible on the roads: as you drove around Finland, more and more places had to wait in line for traffic when the road was being repaired. I would now like to ask Minister Berner: when this fibre connection came up in your speech, what is your point of view that, when it comes to an extremely important project, will there be significant financial resources for this now, because this is the case?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u186	Mr President! Objective, independent communication is one of the pillars of democracy. Now it seems that freedom of expression in Finland if you don't fall, at least you go down wildly. It is a great surprise when we look at the matter that it seems that this is done by the government — not by the whole government, but by one minister. When the Yle law was made, it was done for the purpose of allowing the YLE to operate freely and objectively. That was the underlying purpose. Now it looks like it's been different. Now that it seems that the government does not even want to move the Yle-funding out of the spending limits as a matter of urgency, does the government want the YLE to jump even from here on out when the government says "jump"? When will you decide that Yle will be able to work in peace? Now it already knows that the indices are ignored, and it already has a lot to do with what can be done.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u188	Mr President! We must also thank Minister Berner for the way in which entrepreneurship, employment with these solutions and evenly brought into the eyes of all citizens around Finland. It will be a big thank you for having employed many — really, of course, sometimes seems like small projects, but when you think about the total, so much thank you for it. I'm gonna bring up one other thing a little bit. The report has also added a certain amount of road safety and game to highway 9 to the section, and that is an extremely fine thing — I also thank the Minister for taking road safety seriously in that area. There is a herd of deer so hard, on Highway 9, on Highway 12, which significantly, weekly, also drives deer colliders. I hope that this road safety will continue to be taken into account in that area and that the budget for Highway 12 will be estimated. It is also a matter of hunters becoming weary with their hard deer populations, and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u189	Mr President! The engines for growth are often infra-projects, as the Western Metro or Ringway, as has been well demonstrated in the previous period, and I would therefore like to support the idea of Mr Ihalainen during the negotiations on the framework of this infrastructure plan. VR's outsourcing, or this idea that passenger transport should be opened up to the market, has still been confused when the last time I realised that the Director of the European Railway Agency believes that each country can actually decide whether to open up to the market at all or not. Why, then, are we in Finland going to this and even prematurely than we had previously agreed? The question is also: when Finland is an island and lives on exports, why can't we draw the bus charges for zeros, then this extra burden that we have on our exports could be removed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u190	Mr President! At this stage, a period of new thinking has emerged in transport policy. We have been able to take care of the huge package of debt corrections that has been left behind for a long time, but very large reforms have also been introduced. During this debate, too, much has been discussed about services in sparsely populated areas and rural areas, and in fact the situation has been that there have been little more services there, and now they are being tried again because of new forms of entrepreneurship. I would also like to thank the Minister for the fact that, for example, this postal legislation has also made a very strong political statement that five-day distribution will be at the very heart of the future. I would have asked the Minister about these bio-based fuels: Finland raised its own blending obligation, but how are the negotiations progressing at Nordic level on the issue of this pan-European blending obligation now being advocated by the European Union?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u191	Mr President! I have just arrived, but I understand that Minister Berner here has at least suggested that funding for Yle is being transferred outside the spending limits. That is an excellent thing, and I am sure that, given what happened here a year ago, in view of the role of parliamentarianism and Parliament, this is a very welcome signal. But then I thought that this parliamentary group, which was considering the future of Yle, also had other measures, and I was thinking about timetables for these. When will the government bring to Parliament these other measures relating to this parliamentary working party?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u192	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the way you work. It is easy to get in touch with you, and there is indeed a feeling that you have brought a whole new kind of fuss to your administrative sectors, and it is visible in Finland, and that is what the Finnish maiden needs. But for this very everyday thing, basic bus maintenance: Last summer showed Finland cross-checking that much is now being repaired, and that is what Finland needs. Indeed, this government makes a big leap in catching up with the debt of correction, but although the government is good, it can't help climate change. The big worry is that our winters are becoming less and less rough, and our roads will require more and more basic maintenance, because there will be no reef and our cool tires will eat soft road surfaces, whether it be asphalt or not.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u193	Honourable Members of the Government and Minister! Let's get back to VR's public transport decision this year a year ago. The Government proposed a cut of EUR 12.8 million in public transport by rail. This would have meant the elimination of rail traffic in most of Finland's regions. This led to a major protest by the citizens, and the opposition raised a mid-term issue. As a result, VR received an increase in the obligation traffic for this year, and VR was prepared to increase this obligation traffic for up to three years, which had been cut by this purchase traffic allocation. What did the Minister do? Only accepted a year's extension of this obligation. VR has produced between 300 and 400 million dividends each year for its owners, us, to be decided by Parliament. You say that the supply will be increased through competition.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u194	Mr President! It is very important that, during this parliamentary term, we now at last invest in this road repair, this huge repair debt that exists here in the whole country. EUR 1 billion will in practice be added to road management. A very good example is, for example, the Four-way in the north, but then there is the other unrealised projects, let me say, a bad example such as Highway 22, which was already in the budget last season, but in an unprecedented way it was cut out. I hope that this will also be seen in these future investments. Well, then, to return to the second theme, these infrastructure companies, which has been mentioned: it is very good that, last season, the SDP Finance Minister, Rinne, presented this state infrastructure company and now, in practice, is taking it forward. That is a very good thing. I would have asked the Minister about this extension of air transport. How will the continuation of small airports be secured? Whether to apply for models in other Nordic countries, where this network of small airports covers
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u195	Mr President! The chairman of the committee, Mr Jalonen, was already looking a little at this part of the digitalization of transport. That is what we have discussed very little today. After all, the world's development is very great, and if we look beyond Finland's borders now and see what is happening in the world about intelligent transport, about digitalisation, then we are living in a really great time of change. In Finland, we want to join in this development, but what happens now in Finland, where are we at the moment with these intelligent transport projects? Is intelligent road transport, infrastructure already planned, and if so, what will it become? Yes, the changes that are taking place in the world are great, and we should be involved in them. I hope that we will not have to wait for these other structural reforms that we are planning to develop, but will be able to move forward as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u196	Mr President! Controlling climate change and promoting sustainable development are the biggest goals in the world in the big picture, and so are we, of course, and that is good. For example, transport emission reduction measures are a great opportunity for Finland, not a threat. We can be pioneers in identifying business opportunities, improving the urban environment and precisely combating climate change. It enables Finland to become a pioneer in innovation, product development, among other things, in digitalised transport services, biofuels, the development of distribution networks and vehicle technology. I am very pleased and I thank Minister Berner for taking these matters seriously this season.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u197	Allow me to add the following answers: Mr Hänninen, Mr Taimela, Mr Kankaanniemi, Mr Vehkaperä and Mr Eestilä. Then the Minister's reply, and then we will change the subject.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u198	Mr President! With regard to the traffic cycle, it is good enough to use and streamline the use of public transport, but I am concerned about how this can be done in practice when telecommunications networks in some countries do not work reliably. On the other hand, in order to return to public transport, purchasing services have been cut to such an extent that in some countries it has meant, for example, that the time spent on children's school trips has increased disproportionately in relation to the length of school trips. In other words, many children have to wait too long for a bus or a ride to school, regardless of the weather, without weather protection. I would like to ask you, Minister Berner: are you prepared in the government to increase resources for the development of public transport and the improvement of purchasing services in a sustainable way, as proposed by the Left Alliance, so that Finland as a whole will remain inhabited and viable in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u199	Mr President! Prime Minister Sipilä has told us several times in this Chamber that the Centre wants to keep the whole of Finland inhabited, and I think that investing in basic bus maintenance makes this idea particularly possible. But it is very difficult to see how this objective is supported by the ship charges planned for permanent and summer residents in the archipelago. Payability will weaken the attractiveness of the archipelago, and expensive freight transport will probably hinder the attempt — I think we should all know that without saying it. Nor can it be equated with public transport, as some people do here, but it must be treated directly with the road. The government is talking about an experiment — people living in the archipelago and entrepreneurs have been very direct about the fact that this experiment will permanently turn off the lights, and rarely will these experiments be temporary, and the decision-makers in this house have a lot of experience of it. I also wonder whether this proposal of yours is still in line with the spirit of the Archipelago Act. I understand that the consultation was quite stunning. Is there a genuine response to this, or why these consultations?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u200	Mr. Speaker! With regard to this parliamentary term, these appropriations seem to be very good, but even in the Transport Section there was some concern about what happened 19 and after there might be a government that does not appreciate transport projects as the current government does. In this regard, do you see that this transport network project, a possible company, would be the solution to secure funding, including 20 and beyond, so that the long list of our development projects and the payment of the repair debt could be removed within a reasonable period of time? At the same time, how can EU funding be used? After all, we have not managed to achieve this much in recent years.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u201	Mr President! Let us repeat: Finland’s economic situation is tight, but the correction debt is reduced by EUR 1 billion. More than 300 projects have already been decided across Finland, how, for example, the lower-level road network will be improved, different rail connections will also be improved, EUR 10 million more will be invested in private roads and new bus projects will be put on the foot with EUR 700 million. Is this, the opposition, not the transport policy that we all want? Mr Ihalainen made a good point here on how to obtain non-public money for investment, both in the telecommunications sector and in the transport sector. You, Minister Berner, have created a good partnership programme with telecommunications operators that in eight years' time billions of euros will be invested in fast broadband. Isn't that the same time as Transport Network Ltd?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u202	Mr President! There has been a great deal of commendation here for this billion-dollar investment in basic management, and of course it deserves praise, but the committee in its report has already drawn attention to the fact that we have had to take 364 million of the development projects between 2017 and 2019, and we recognise and certainly the Minister recognize this risk, which includes this. It is that the Finnish Transport Agency no longer has any planning material, and these major transport projects do not come about suddenly or by themselves, but must be planned even years earlier, both in order and in order. That is why it is particularly important that, in the context of this transport network and its planning, we highlight the importance of this long-term transport plan. It must not be one parliamentary term, it must be between 2 and 3 parliamentary term, and then there will be the right order in these matters. I would like to thank all the members of the section and the minister, and Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u203	Then Minister Berner, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u204	Mr President! This is where they asked for stage two of the traffic cycle. It will include more and more information interfaces and the opening-up of information, means of increasing the supply of air transport, rail transport and maritime transport, and how to better create a single transport market. In this context, air transport will be one of the key aspects to be addressed and will also seek to ensure, in particular, an increase in entrepreneurship and supply. The Energy and Climate Report obliges us to reduce transport emissions by 3.6 million tonnes by 2030. This can be done through three key measures: to ensure that the opportunities and digitalisation associated with the use of the traffic cycle and other transport are promoted and that behavioural changes are introduced that enable us to achieve emission reductions by a quarter of this. Another key issue is the electrification of transport and alternative fuels, the plans of which will now be specified in the course of this spring. Electronicisation will require investment in infrastructure, which will be done both on market terms and by assessing whether it will also require action by the government. In addition, it is important to review transport taxation as a whole and also to assess how a transport network survey could contribute to the emission reduction targets. The north-east cable project is proceeding very quickly. We have had a debate with key countries, Norway, Germany, Japan, China and Russia, and in February the communications ministers of these countries will meet in Finland to reflect on the next steps. The aim here is also to ensure that a commercial project is created. As far as intelligent transport is concerned, we are promoting both the development of infrastructure, but above all the regulatory environment. This aims to make it possible for us to have genuinely good starting points and opportunities as a pioneer country for intelligent transport, which I hope Finland will be, both from the point of view of infrastructure development and the provision of related services, which, above all, means developing the telecommunications market, but also promoting insurance products. Opening up competition never means that it excludes social measures. Nor does it ever mean that there will then be no parallel shopping, but it will also enable society to compete in purchasing services and thus use the euro as a more efficient taxpayer. Therefore, under all circumstances, we currently have both socially supported transport and market-based transport in other modes of transport. This will continue to be the case. The way in which competition is opened up and can be done in such a way as to support service solutions in society can include purchasing traffic, compulsory transport and market-based transport. The aim is to ensure that, when there are more than one service provider, it is also possible to provide better services, innovations, technological developments that arise when different producers tighten each other up. This is always the case — not the fact that they exclude each other, they complement each other. The fact that we are genuinely achieving digitalisation and services means, of course, that we need good broadband connections. To this end, we have made a major contribution to the broadband programme, which will be carried out in cooperation with and in partnership with the various telecommunications operators, but we will also promote the wider deployment of mobile devices, and Finland is one of the first countries in Europe to have made it possible to deploy 700 megahertz frequencies for mobile devices. All these measures aim to ensure that we are genuinely able to provide better connections in Finland. The Transport Network Survey aims to ensure that we have sustainable funding for infrastructure in the future. I hope that also means that it will still be available during this term of government. It also means that we will be better able to take EU funding into account and the means involved. All in all, I hope that Parliament will have an open approach to the transport network inquiry and its handling when the time comes. At this point I would like to thank you for this debate, for the feedback I have received and for the lunch that has been made, and also for this year here in Parliament. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u205	The general discussion and the section debate shall be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u206	The general debate on section 31 of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which was suspended earlier today, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u207	Mr President! Transport routes in good condition are very important for the daily safe movement of all of us Finns. That's why we keep them in shape. Unfortunately, our built and widely used national property has been in rather poor shape in recent years, and we have already estimated 2.5 billion to repair our transport network. Now, during this reign, a very significant change of direction has been made in order to put roads and tracks in order. The big change is that much more is now being invested in basic bus maintenance. To stop the constantly growing debt of repair and to make roads fit better, billions of dollars are now being made. Some 300 transport bus projects that have already been decided will bring work and livelihood to Finland as a whole, while also improving road safety considerably. Small projects can also improve our everyday mobility. In addition to these 300 transport infrastructure projects, the Committee on Finance added nine new so-called allocation reserve projects across Finland to the budget for a total of EUR 6 million. An annual appropriation of EUR 13 million for renovations on private roads for 2017-2019 is also noteworthy. Private roads are important not only for the shareholders of road health care municipalities but also for the business sector, especially the bioeconomy, and there are very many private roads in Finland, and all Finns use them at some time of the year. Although there will be a lot of road projects next year, so much remains to be done for the coming years. There are many areas to improve in Finland, all over Finland. There are plenty of them for every sector, every province, and among them there is also highway 13 Myttiömäki, from my own province, where there have always been big, bad heavy traffic accidents and passenger traffic accidents. New major transport infrastructure projects will also be launched next year, but the fact is that it is becoming increasingly difficult to obtain adequate funding for large projects through normal budget funding. That is why the Transport Network Oy report needs to be carried out very quickly, and at the latest in the spring spending limits debate it needs to be decided whether or not to proceed. New transport infrastructure investments will be launched for some EUR 700 million in the regions and the capital region. Main road 4 Oulu—Kemi, highway 5 Mikkeli—Juva, highway 12 Lahti South Ring Road and double track Luumäki—Imatra all the way to the Russian border are very important projects for road safety and business needs, all these projects. Raile-Joker, on the other hand, enables the development of residential areas in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. It is also important because it is here in the capital region that there is a shortage of residential areas and it is hoped that they will be brought forward. Mr President! Finland needs long-term transport infrastructure planning and implementation that extends over parliamentary term. For this clarification, Transport Network Ltd is one of the most worthwhile solutions. Long-term planning must also take into account how the road projects now decided and to be built may change the route of heavy traffic in particular. This should be taken into account, for example, in south-eastern Finland when highway 7 is completed at the Vaalimaa border crossing point. In this case, traffic is likely to move to Lappeenranta—Value-to-Value road, where heavy traffic in particular will increase and the renovation will be up-to-date very soon.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u208	Mr President! The section of the Ministry of Transport and Communications is precisely the section that has been evoking great emotions throughout this Chamber. I do not see in the current budget the famous restoration of the Cow cranes, but I firmly believe, however, that as many budget proposals as it was involved, it has now already been put in place and, as a result, has been left to dust on the pages of history. Mr President! I welcome the fact that the distribution reserve increases of EUR 6 million were brought to North Karelia in that part of the fairway at Kontiolahti, because Sixth Road sidelines Kontiolahti and has such a place of danger, a lot of traffic and a lot of people on the move, light traffic. The separation of them has now come to a good conclusion, and I am delighted with this little appropriation. Even though it does not build the world, it is of the utmost importance to local people. What gives rise to great joy in this section of the Ministry of Transport and Communications is that this care deficit, which has been created for the Finnish basic road network and basic railway maintenance over the decades, amounting to around EUR 2.4 billion — can be said a little in its native language to say that it is a so-called laziness, i.e. EUR 2.4 billion has been frozen behind the planned care needs and now it is gradually being corrected. This government is now making a clear step towards the situation in which these management debts can be covered. 600 million plus 364 million, or a total of EUR 964 million during this parliamentary term, will be spent on fairway policy so that basic maintenance and maintenance can be completed. The condition of the lower road network has been very poor in recent years, and these warm winters, in which it rains in the middle of winter, have caused the situation to be very poor in many roads, the breakdown of cars and the fact that heavy traffic is sometimes impossible. The money received for basic bus maintenance really comes in need, and now is the right time to make renovations to basic bus maintenance, because the world market price for oil is low and it knows that the price of bitumen, the essential raw material for asphalt, is also low, and it also opens up the possibility of getting more miles fixed and new road surfaces ready also in Eastern Finland, North and Kainuu. We must remember that in those wooded areas these roads are increasingly needed because of the growing trade in timber, the growing use of wood, and that means that we need to get the fairways in order. In time, the Transport Policy Report has dealt with these issues and promised ten times that the basic route will be taken care of. Unfortunately, those promises have run into the sand, but now it's happening. Of this, I should like to thank the Minister for Transport, Anne Berner, for her determination to push this issue forward. During the Government negotiations after the elections, this was recorded in the Government Programme and is now being implemented. This has become good feedback from the provinces, and we must continue along the same path. However, it should be borne in mind that only about one third of the repair needs we have on the Finnish roads and railways, to be bluntly put, are covered by the repair money for basic bus maintenance and rail maintenance. The two thirds still need to be closed during the next parliamentary term. This means that we will have to make new financial means for major infrastructure projects, find new opportunities to finance these large projects, and then, of course, we will see to it that the foundations of public finances are strengthened, that tax revenues are increased, that employment is improved and that we will be able to create new basic infrastructure funds and also bigger infrastructure projects. Finally, Mr President, once the Sipilä Government Programme has started to work and there have been clear changes — it can be said that the back of the recession has been folded and decisions are being taken to lift Finland out of the swamp of the recession — and this is the phenomenon of bus maintenance, the thing that we will have to deal with even better in the future, and we must not forget it when the economy is growing even better, so that basic bus maintenance is forgotten. However, despite all this good proposal, I think there is one thing missing here and that is the development of inland waterway transport. I am very disappointed that it has not been raised as a big, important issue. Hopefully, in the traffic cycle, the issue will be taken into account with a much higher sound weight, because we have the best inland waterways networks in the world in Finland, which offer an excellent opportunity to transport goods at a cost. We already have a working channel network through Russia to the Gulf of Finland,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u209	Mr President! Yes, this package of nearly EUR 1 billion of basic services, which has come many times in previous speeches, is very important not only for the sake of domestic economic recovery but also for the fact that people all over the world are getting long-talked transport projects moving, and they have come through Finland. As a representative of the north, in particular, I am particularly grateful for the projects which have come to the north, and it is good to hear colleagues say that there are projects all over this country. I thought I would start by going over some energy and climate issues with regard to the transport sector, because the transport sector is one of the major areas where we now need to be able to reduce emissions so that we can meet the climate targets and the emissions targets that we have been set. They are very ambitious goals, but I believe that with Finnish ingenuity and high knowledge and innovation we will be able to make that change also in transport towards that carbon-neutral society. First of all, it is absolutely necessary to say that it is an extremely ambitious objective to triple the obligation to mix biofuels with 30%. It is not a unique thing: if we talk on a European scale, there is some kind of blending obligation for 30 countries, it was part of the EU's energy winter package, it was negotiated with the Nordic countries about the obligation to mix, and it is very important that we should also have the Nordic market created for this. It is estimated that up to five-six large biorefinery projects of this kind alone would be possible with this blending obligation for Finnish biofuels. In addition, it is important to remember that when biofuel is processed from forest-based materials, no log wood will be placed there, but it will be all that sawdust and black liquor and other bark that would not be used anyway and would release emissions in any case. Of course, it is important and sensible for it to be used up to the end. Finland can certainly be a pioneer in many respects in how we get rid of our emissions and how we minimise them. For the first time, concrete investments will also be made by this government in electric motoring. It has certainly been mentioned for years; Norway has been taking measures for decades, but this government is the first to put EUR 100 million into the promotion of electric cars. Getting the car fleet of biogas cars to Finland. Distribution networks will certainly also be created partly on market terms. There are already very ambitious and large-scale issues and projects on the transport side. Now that we are also preparing for the reform of the Postal Act and the traffic cycle, it is very important that next year we keep to the point of view which the Minister has also had. In fact, services in sparsely populated areas should now be able to improve, because so far the situation has been that, unfortunately, they have been saved and saved all the time. With such a traditional approach it will no longer happen, but when we are able to create new entrepreneurial spirit and dismantle standards, public transport, for example, will certainly also be able to partly return to the countryside. Mr President! To this end, I would like to say a few words about the north-east cable project, which is very important to us for the whole nation, for the Arctic region, for northern Europe. It is significant that when Finland becomes President of the Arctic Council next year, we will try very hard to promote this issue, and it was positive that a week ago, when the Prime Minister and the Ministers of Responsibility met the Prime Minister of Russia, the green light was given to this too. However, it is a question of future investment, of how all possible technological data could be transferred quickly between continents. If anyone is afraid that there is a safety risk involved, it is that someone goes to the cable and physically cut it off. That it's the risk. Finally, I would like to conclude that our air transport network, our airport network, is a fundamental issue for our regions, and hopefully at some point there will be even more direct international connections. After all, it is quite absurd that, at the moment, from Helsinki to Ivalo, the cost of a ticket is about the same as from Helsinki to New York.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u210	Mr President! It was pleasant to work in the Transport Section this autumn, when the government's proposal in this regard was very positive, one might say that even historical. The biggest thank you will probably be this debt reduction of EUR 964 million in the next few years, beginning at last: EUR 304 million in the next year, EUR 435 million in the next year and EUR 90 million in 19 years. It's all right. It's all right. In particular, the section considered the situation in 18 C.E., where there is a considerable demand for land-building companies, when this largest amount of repair debt comes into use and at the same time these major development projects are under way. There may even be overheating in the construction sector and problems with the availability of labour, which could then increase costs and make work more difficult. On the other hand, in 19 C.E., the amount of repair debt falls to 90 million, which is a pretty big drop since 18. Of course, these are transfer appropriations and can be used over several years, but nevertheless. Then, after 19 C.E., if the next government is not as wise as the present government, there may be a collapse. We must already prepare for this at the Ministry of Transport and Transport, so that this does not happen. However, it is very positive that the correction debt will be reduced. In the longer term, as I said, additional efforts are needed. The repair debt of 2.5 billion is extremely high, i.e. it is the amount of euros that would be needed to put the corridors in good shape to meet current needs. It is also estimated that the amount of the correction debt will increase by approximately EUR 100 million a year, i.e. in the last parliamentary term for example it increased by approximately EUR 400 million. In order to avoid further growth in the correction debt, it is necessary to ensure that the funding is as stable and long-term as possible. A stable level of funding will also contribute to the development and long-term investment of the civil engineering sector, as stated in the report, with important comments. Mr President! The section added EUR 5950000 to these small projects: EUR 5950000: Eura, Haapavesi, Kihniö, Kontiolahti, Loimaa, Raahe, Siilinjärvi, Urainen, Vimpeli — small projects but very important locally for both traffic flow and safety. For example, the scene of the Loima deer accident is extremely important. In deer accidents and deer accidents, there is a huge loss of economic value and then also a lot of problems, morbidity and the like. Mr. Speaker! As far as Central Finland is concerned, there is no room for complacency. There are no major projects here in our province. Vaajakoski, for example, runs the Four Road, the Ninetie Road, the 13-way and the 23-way from the same narrow bridge, with huge traffic congestion, huge traffic pressure. Today it has moved from the south to that point, and it would require resources for improvement as soon as possible. The second road connection between Jyväskylä and Äänekoski is perhaps even more important, which is not in the condition where it should be when the new project takes place. On the track side Orivesi—Jämsä
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u211	Mr President! The section of the Ministry of Transport and Communications is the only one that the government clearly emphasises in this budget. The debt to repair transport routes will be reduced and new transport routes will be invested. In particular, the Greens value the state's participation in the investments required by the new express rails in Tampere and the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. They promote sustainable transport, urban structure and climate policies. Thank you for that. However, thanks do not mean that there is still no room for improvement. The Greens' alternative budget places much more emphasis on the development and maintenance of the network than the Government's proposal. In recent years, the competitiveness of rail transport has suffered from poor track condition: timetables have not been maintained and prices have not been competitive. However, reducing climate emissions requires shifting traffic from rubber wheels and short routes to iron wheels. That is why rail transport must be a competitive option, which is why the rail network needs to be constantly developed. For this reason, in their alternative budget, the Greens will put EUR 57 million more than the government for the various rail projects and EUR 15 million for the purchase and development of public transport services. Mr President! When talking about the section of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, transport is easily concentrated. Instead, the Ministry’s second responsibility, communication, is easily forgotten. For example, broadband is as important a basic infrastructure as a road network. Nevertheless, the construction of a high-speed fibre network in particular has progressed frustratingly slowly. We easily forget that fast internet access is essential for, for example, agricultural and tourism companies. Tourists want to access the network, and dairy robots need their new security updates. Even a harvester in the forest is constantly connected to the Internet. Optical fibre and high-speed wireless broadband are not mutually exclusive; on the contrary, they complement each other; they depend on each other. High-speed wireless broadband base stations specifically need a fibre optic connection in order to avoid a bottlenecks between the base station and the network. I would therefore have assumed that the centre-driven government had taken over the fibre optics of the scattered areas for its special protection. However, even in urban areas there is still a lot to do: old broadband networks built on copper in the suburbs simply cannot cope with today's strain. There must be some success in developing Finnish broadband into a national project to which both government, companies and municipalities commit themselves. Mr President! Finland is digitised quickly, so fast that security is easily forgotten. The Finnish Communications Agency, especially its Cert function, has a lot of security in monitoring the security of Finnish information networks. However, the resources at its disposal are pathetically small compared to the complexity and importance of the task for Finnish society. It was only recently that at least 24/7 emergency services were provided for Finland’s network surveillance. Until then, all we could do was ask the attacker to return to the matter during office hours. The amount of effort required by the emergency services was lower than what the City of Helsinki spends every year to combat rabbits. I have to ask, do you think this is the right priority? Have you ever wondered how dependent we are already on the undisturbed operation of the information networks? If connections are cut off, electricity, water, and food will soon be cut off. As hybrid threats become more common and as the network of objects develops, the significance of the Finnish Communications Agency's Cert unit will only be emphasised. We must be able to secure the functioning of Finnish information networks — the functioning of Finnish society — even under different exceptional circumstances. Otherwise, we will end up like the Ukrainians last Christmas, when a state-level cyber attack took power from some 230,000 Ukrainian economies in the middle of winter. Securing the operation of Finnish information networks requires resources that may seem large, but fire brigades are not sized according to peaceful nights, but according to serious disturbances and emergencies. Cert is the fire department of the Finnish information society, it should be resourced accordingly. Once the situation is in place, you don't have to go looking for skilled personnel. Information security is also critical to the future of transport. The automation of traffic is progressing rapidly, robot cars will also come to Finland's roads in the next parliamentary term. Robot buses were already in Espoo, Tampere and Helsinki last summer. Robotic cars and transport services, the much-speaked MaaS, must already be taken into account in all transport legislation and in all transport investments.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u212	Värderade Herr Talman! I ett land som Finland med långa avstånd och en exportberoende industri är vägnätet en avgörande factoro för en vämående economist. Satsningar på infrastruktur är i allra högsta grad också investmentingar i det finska näringslivet och brode alltid ses ur ett tvärvartellt och övergripande perspectiveiv.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u213	Mr President! Board of Directors, where's Infra Oy? We have this great repair debt, which is not very good at catching up, because new things are being created all the time, especially with regard to railways, roads and bridges. During the government negotiations, many were excited that Infra Oy was in the discussions, which could produce work at an accelerated pace across the country and at the same time get these repairs in order for a certain period of time and then for the business wheels to run better. Finland has a rail network in which the sections between large cities are in quite moderate condition. Living urban areas and small towns have been created along these lines. Such a good example is the Siuntio in Uusimaa. There's a happy community that's built around the tracks. Now this small community of happy guys is in the biggest crisis of its life, when the government has stopped stopping trains almost entirely at the station there. The development of the whole area has been paralysed, housing prices are falling, the outlook is gloomy. I am tempted and it is right to ask: what kind of regional and industrial policy is this, that when there are already tracks, then when there is nothing else to think about, then the trains will no longer stop where they should stop? A similar situation has arisen in Hämeenlinna: the central area of more than 70,000 inhabitants, where trains do not stop. This is now for the government partners here — the former,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u214	All right, we're not going to open up any more of this, but I'm going to give a response to the representatives of Kankaanniemi and Torniainen, and then the debatator to Laukkanen if he wants to. — Representative Kankaanniemi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u215	Mr President! Here, at the beginning of the section report of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, it is mentioned that the transport network project, Live Oy, is under preparation or under investigation. When Mr Laukkanen asked where Infra Oy is, this project now under the name Live is in preparation, but the preparation of such a big project does not take place in such an instant, and one can say that the government is well awake and takes it forward. It will be considered in the spring whether or not it will be set up, but always the setting up of an outside budget fund or company is a tricky thing and a complicated thing, but hopefully it will be launched next spring that it would already be running from the beginning of 18.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u216	Mr President! Representative Laukkanen asked the government where Infra Oy is.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u217	Mr Östman and Mr Laukkanen responded, and then to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u218	Mr President! Yeah, just for a second. — I see and wonder why this project is still being clarified, because already in 2011 the Centre had published such a plan, that Infra Oy will enable a flexible way of carrying out the projects, that there has been a lot of time to sort things out — as long as this is not going to go into liquidation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u219	Mr President! Excellent answers, thank you for these, and they are very satisfying. Indeed, as Mr Östman said, this has been going on for quite a long time, and that is why I wanted to ask quite emphatically: is it coming, and what is happening to it? Thank you for these clarifications. We shall wait for this good result from this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u220	Then we return to the list of speakers. — Mr Viljanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u221	Mr President! The Sipilä government has been allowed to clean up the tracks of its predecessor, so to speak, and that is the situation with regard to transport policy. This work is now being carried out as quickly as possible under the decisive leadership of Minister Berner. One indication of this work for the future is the reduction of the so-called ‘recovery debt’ created in previous years. In the past, too few funds have been allocated to road maintenance, which is why we have spent more than EUR 2.5 billion more than they have been repaired and renovated. This problem of repair debt is certainly no stranger to any representative here, which is why there are routes all over our country that have suffered from over-maintenance. This debt will now be slowed down and, most importantly, the debt will be reduced by a total of EUR 964 million during this parliamentary term. I am very pleased that, in addition to the freeways, funds for the maintenance and improvement of private roads will also be increased by EUR 10 million. This increase does not bring the funds allocated to the private sector to the right level, but the increase now made is therefore substantial and the trend in the budget is absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u222	Mr President! This section also includes the financing of YLE, and we are really looking forward to spring so that we can get YLE funding outside the spending limits because it would calm the situation in YLE. When the Yle law was adopted, the purpose was to allow the YLE to operate in peace and to exercise freedom of the press and objective communication, but it has been different. Firstly, the abolition of index increases in the case of YLE has meant that people have had to be reduced, and, among other things, there are negotiations on 147 people at the moment, and that seems to be a rather bad thing. Even more worrying than the framework, even more worrying than the negotiations are the fact that Finnish freedom of the press, Finnish freedom of expression, is currently being undermined. It is also a matter that belongs to the minister of this section. He must also take a stand on this matter. It is not right that if it is found or suspected that a mistake has been made in a place or that incorrect action has been taken, it itself will be investigated. It usually does not lead to an objective outcome. Yes, to this stalemate, which is currently in the position of the government against the YLE, there must be some sort of order. This has to be corrected once and for all. Internationally we are now falling out of this kind of freedom of speech model, which we have been so far, and that is very unfortunate. If the government is going to continue with what the Prime Minister has now begun, to regard the YLE as its lapdog, then we can say goodbye to objective communication. It is now being driven down in this country, and the rest of us need to ensure that the YLE remains on Parliament's radio and that the funding of YLE is not dependent on it,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u223	Mr President! Transport policy has moved forward in Minister Berner's term towards the future. We have many future-looking transport projects and are constantly looking for new solutions to improve the future of transport and communication. Finland must also be a pioneer in this sector internationally, even though we have fallen from this boat in recent years. Reaching the destination requires determined work that we are now doing. Future emission reduction pressures are largely on transport. This also offers us opportunities to develop new business models and innovations aimed at exports. By investing in new solutions and marketing them, we will pave the way for Finland on the international market. Mr President! The correction debt money is also directed towards digitalisation. The aim is to better identify customer needs, improve bus maintenance and introduce new transport services. These projects will respond to future transport needs. The Transport Network company in the study would enable major projects to be carried out, for example through the Arctic railway and the Tallinn tunnel, the Arctic link to Europe. After all, Finland is still not an island, but a peninsula, as we have heard many times in this Chamber today. With this new route towards the Arctic, this wrong feeling about an island country can be dispelled. The North-East cable project has also received support and could open up Arctic policy. This is the kind of northern competitive power we would really need in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u224	Mr President! There has been a wide-ranging debate on transport issues, and I would like to continue to emphasise this issue of reparation debt. It is a great thing that the government in its programme has taken a firm stand on the cancellation of the debt and has left the line that there is now a significant investment in basic management. In this last budget debate of the year, particular attention will be paid to road safety by adding money, and new targets will be found here. The same tourism issue is important. Photofib is probably a kind of blood vessel in Finland, and there has been a good discussion here about how important it is to have fibre everywhere in Finland. Photofibres are also a necessity for transport, but this social welfare reform, among other things, will require a wide-ranging and functional fibre network. It is important from a safety point of view; the same transport services will also rely heavily on the fibre network in the future. However, I would like to raise the picture of the future in the way that we now have new modes of transport and electric cars, but, in particular, for the development of biofuels, I would like the government to invest, because there is already an existing distribution network — only when the production of biofuels is invested, so that an environmentally friendly and affordable and easily feasible solution for Finnish mobility could be found, and this biofuel would also have a very high employment impact.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u225	Mr President! I wrote a letter to Santa Claus: Santa Claus, 99999 Eartunturi. Dear Santa Claus, I hope that this traditional letter sent through the Post will go well and reach you in time this year, as it has always gone to the Kortunturi in East Lapland, to Savukoski, just as far as the Russian border. We have always been able to rely on the flow of mail throughout Finland. There have been a lot of difficulties with the delivery of mail this year. We are always used to the fact that mail is sure to come to our homes every day, as surely as Santa Claus comes to our home every Christmas. But now our society has changed. Just no one sends traditional letter mail anymore except in Christmas cards, and even their number is decreasing. Every year, the volume of mail under the joint service obligation, i.e. letter mail, decreases by 10 per cent. We're about to read almost everything on our computer or cell phone. The government will also close almost entirely to the end of sending paper mail in 2018. The distribution of newspapers and free distribution magazines and advertisements is a highly competitive sector in which, in addition to Posti, a dozen companies participate. However, only Posti, a state company owned by all of us, carries mail to Santa Claus’s Kortunturi, which is a sparsely populated area. The postal sector has strong obligations under our laws, which, in turn, are not incumbent on competitors. However, the profitability of the post will continue to deteriorate, and Posti will have to wonder how it will also be able to meet the legal obligations, as we decision-makers when we have imposed obligations on Post, but the state money will not be given to Post at all today. The post office has then had to organise its services and lay off its distributors, and unfortunately this is reflected in the service situation at the moment. We, the representatives of the government parties, are now facing a major challenge. We're supposed to help. Mail to organise its own operations so that all of us Finns get all kinds of mail at least every weekday, as we have done so far. With the current postal law, it is already very difficult, and the situation seems to be getting worse from now on. I know that we, as representatives of the responsible government party, now need to make legislative changes and intervene. We must ensure that the Christmas letter of all of us child-like people will certainly continue to go to Korntunturi. Santa Claus, help us representatives of the government parties to draw up a new postal law so that we can ensure that the Christmas letter goes to Kortunturi next year and the following year too, because if we don't change the law now, Posti is in such a situation that we can't get our Christmas mail there in any way on time, and then the network of gift distribution can't get to work. Also help Posti’s management find sensible solutions so that Posti’s employees don’t have to work like crazy just to say that they don’t always have time to do their job with honor, no matter how hard they try. This could mean that the mornings will be delivered by mail and other tasks will be carried out in the afternoon. It would be good if postal services could be managed in such a way that it can be combined with other services, especially in the sparsely populated area, for longer distances. This would ensure work for as many postmen and people as possible — and, of course, we could certainly get the post to run every day.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u226	Mr President! In the Government proposal, the total budget for the Ministry of Transport and Communications is EUR 3.24 billion, which is EUR 310 million more than in the current year. The reason for the increase in the total is mainly due to the increase in basic bus maintenance appropriations agreed in the Government Programme. This is a good thing. Of this EUR 3.24 billion, more than EUR 1.9 billion is allocated to the transport network, and this amount can be considered reasonable and appropriate in these circumstances. In these times, the way people move and the way things are moved are revolutionized in the world and here too at a very fast pace. We are living a kind of transport revolution now and in the next few years. Intelligent transport is already a reality in many parts of the world. Sensors, cameras, data transmission systems in the road infrastructure provide timely information about weather, traffic situation, congestion, accidents and, for example, animals on the side of the road. Autonomic traffic, i.e. robot cars, are experimentally used in normal traffic around the world. In Finland, too, we may be able to travel on the first bus without drivers within a couple of years. It is only a matter of time before autonomous vehicles, i.e. vehicles without drivers, become available in Finland. And wouldn't it be great if, when travelling wherever you go, you didn't have to put together timetables and travel routes and means of transport for yourself, but information systems would do it for you? For example, taxis—trains—buses— taxis wherever you can buy your tickets at once and do it in the best way and at the best price. All this is possible in Finland too in the near future. It requires, however, that these projects, which we have in the transport sector, are now being carried forward and to the end. In fact, all the major reform projects currently under way are aimed at this future ITS approach: the Transport Arc, the Transport Network Project, the comprehensive reform of the Road Traffic Act, the opening up of rail competition, the promotion of other developments in digitalisation, all of which are precisely the steps we need to take to prepare for future mobility in Finland. Another interesting project is Live Oy, a transport network company, which has been talked about here, which is a project to reform the development and financing of the transport network. The aim of this is to create an economically sustainable operating model that provides the means for the long-term maintenance and development of the transport network. The preliminary study of the project is due to be completed in the spring of the year and a discussion on the need and content of the project can then be held on a factual basis. This project seems very interesting. The preparation and implementation of these projects must therefore continue, as planned. Mr President! The Committee on Finance made a number of additions to the Ministry's proposal. The additions are basic infrastructure management projects that improve road safety, or projects that develop the operating conditions of the business community, and therefore are very much to be welcomed. These projects are located throughout Finland in Eura, Haapavesi, Kihniö, Kontiolahti, Loimaa, Raahe, Siilinjärvi, Uraiinen and Vimpel. For my part, I would have liked the Committee on Finance to have decided to include the extension of the previous scrapping premium procedure next year. This is a model that enables more and more Finns to buy a newer and less emission car. On previous occasions, the scrapping premium has produced a multiple return on the funds invested in it for the State, and my argument is that it would have happened this time too. Mr President! Main road 13 Myttiönmäki's bend between Lappeenranta and Mikkeli is one of the most dangerous places on our roads. Every year, unfortunately, accidents occur. I would like to make a point of saying that, since the money for that correction project has not now been made available to the budget, I hope that the concern will be taken seriously and that the funding for the repairs will be provided in some other way and as soon as possible. Mr President! The Committee on Finance refers to the unanimous proposal of the parliamentary working group that evaluated the tasks and funding of YLE in June 2016 that YLE's funding should be outside the spending limits of central government finances. It was stated at that time that the public service tax was not included in the framework of central government finances. Therefore, the funding of the public radio must be transferred outside the spending limits, and this will be done in the context of the preparation of the spring 2017 budgetary plan, i.e. the spending limits debate. This is for those who have been asking about it here today. Still according to the presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u227	Mr President! When you look at this section of the Ministry of Transport and Communications with regard to what the opposition is proposing to change, you get the strange feeling that most of these make some sense. It is clear that it is justified to make investments in the transport routes, and when I have dealt with transport issues both on the committee's side and in the division, it has become clear in concrete terms what the situation is with regard to the road network repair debt, and it is good that the government is making a significant contribution to these corrections. Now there are many good projects on the list and I must be pleased to see that there are also projects close to them, whose useful dimensions I am perhaps the best aware of myself. At the same time, however, we must remember that there are many other justified and necessary projects throughout the country. Problems with road network repair debt extend to the level of the main roads. There are several provinces whose main highways are without bypasses — or, in particular, two lanes along which to drive. I also agree with the appeal made by the representatives Kopra and Torniainen to improve highway 13 from the site of Savitaipale-Myttiömäki, in particular. As far as this Yle parliamentary group is concerned, it would be somewhat critical of its work, for example, not to cut more than this index cut, but that working group has been and gone, and that work has been done. It is difficult to understand what it is so difficult for the Social Democrats to understand when it will move beyond the framework. This has been mentioned several times in the big room, and even today, at least twice before this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u228	Mr President! It is extremely important that the current government invests significantly in transport infrastructure projects. Over the decades, the debt to repair our transport routes has grown to worrying proportions, estimated at EUR 2.5 billion. During this parliamentary term, i.e. between 2016 and 18, an additional EUR 600 million will be allocated to the reduction of the correction debt and an additional EUR 364 million will also be allocated to basic bus maintenance between 2017 and 2019. Good traffic will improve the competitiveness of our business life, among other things. Mr President! A street track road will be built in Tampere by decision of the City Council, and the project will receive EUR 71 million of state funding with this budget. However, it should be noted that the introduction of tram services would have been a very good alternative to the electricity buses produced in the same province, Sastamala, Pirkanmaa. They have been taken into use in Turku in the autumn. These electric buses are to be used not only at home but also in Denmark, for example. At least the mobility system based on electric buses is superior to the tram. The electric bus is energy efficient, and it is technology of the future. The manufacture of electric buses also employs a significant number of employees in Finland. The price of an electric bus is currently double that of a conventional diesel bus, but with the development of battery technology and other technologies, costs will most likely be significantly reduced in the near future. The representatives of the plant and Kopra also spoke earlier about robot cars being tested in Tampere. They too may revolutionize our movement in a way that we cannot even imagine yet.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u229	Mr President! I would also like to highlight the importance of high-speed telecommunications connections throughout Finland. They are very important for entrepreneurship and livelihood in the whole of Finland. Minister Berner has launched a partnership programme between the state and Finnish telecommunications operators in which operators are committed to investing EUR 1 billion in high-speed broadband connections. Mobile networks are needed for digital services, but above all we also need to build fibre networks. Both complement each other and both are important, as the representative of the plant said very well. This Government will improve the availability of fibre connections, including through co-building and use of fibre in infrastructure projects, and will also improve the opportunities for small fibre network builders for various projects. That's a good thing. And yes, for downtown people, the construction of fibre optic networks throughout Finland is extremely close to the heart and we want to take it forward, but we therefore need functional fibre networks as well as mobile networks. Fixed broadband access is a prerequisite for professional activity. This has been mentioned by a very large number of farmers in rural areas or other sectors, and they know what they are talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u230	Mr President! To begin with, the government must praise the fact that an agreement was reached on the traffic curve. Hopefully, real arcs can solve the progress of transport services, or at least break it down in rural areas without major disruptions. The present government has made a generous effort to invest the road in a repair debt of EUR 2.4 billion, and these projects, indeed less than EUR 1 billion, are historic. This will help to repair the lower road network that is important for the transport of the bioeconomy and business, and the harvesting of timber will be successful in the weather as well as in the weather. There are several investments in basic bus maintenance in Pirkanmaa. Highway 3 will now have a different level connection to Hämeenkyrö in Kyröskoski, but the actual major renovation of the Threests will hopefully bring Live Oy to work. Unfortunately, Highway 9, where there was another accident, there would be a busy road between Tampere and Orivesi, but it is not yet in sight. The railway yard in Tampere will be improved and the axle load between Tampere and Seinäjoki will be increased, and this is important for the transport of the bio- and forest industries. Next year projects will start all over Finland, from Oulu to Mikkeli, which is a good thing. I know these roads quite well when they have been shaved: there is a need everywhere in Finland. Indeed, a decision was made in the spending limits dispute about the money of the Tampere tram. I agree with Mr Savio that electric buses would have been a more efficient option, but now we need those electric buses anyway, because the tram does not cover more than about 15% of the residents in Tampere. In urban development, the state has a role to play, but at the current level of transport funding, large central government shares do not exist in all major urban toilets. The resources cannot be cut significantly from the services and networks of the rest of Finland, and this should be understood even by the most enthusiastic lobbyists. Local and private roads are also important. With a small amount of money, we can fix the private roads. And indeed, private roads will become a new law of flexibility. Of course, this benefits not only the summer cottages, the people of rural areas, but also the transport of bio-transport, the transport of wood. A partnership programme between the government and Finnish telecommunications operators is also worthy of praise in order to promote telecommunications connections across the country. It is a total package of approximately EUR 1 billion, and hopefully it will now be implemented as soon as possible. As far as the north-eastern cable of the Arctic Ocean is concerned, progress should be made. As the cable passes through Finland, it would be an opportunity for our country to become an international data hub. Finland’s assets here are the stability of society and the cool climate, the high level of information security and the protection of privacy. And it could also help us to get the construction of railway companies in the Arctic Ocean. More than 30 million have been proposed for the purchase of rail transport services. Pirkanmaa needs to receive further funding for VR's obligation traffic in 2017 in order to maintain passenger train traffic through Tampere-Orivesi-Vilppula-Haapamäki. This means three daily innings until passenger trains are opened up to competition, and hopefully there will be operators. It is difficult that such short-term decisions have been taken now year by year, these purchases of train services. We need to get the wheels in Finland going. Transport can be managed efficiently and economically, and transport investments, they produce more than what they have been invested in. On the other hand, you can also say that we cannot constantly shift the additional burden on motorists. The purpose of the transport network company to be set up is to create an instrument that will safeguard the construction of the corridors and the level of funding for them, and indeed there has been less money available for these new projects every parliamentary term. And so there are no routes to sell, the state still owns the company, but then you can get money from investment banks and pension companies to invest in the Finnish infrastructure. Refurbishment of third parties from Tampere to Ostrobothnia could be a pilot project of Live Oy. It would serve between 3 and 5 provinces. The price of the three renovations is EUR 160 million, but I really believe that it is also very important for Finland's export trade and, indeed, all the way to the Atlantic, that transport would be extended. All in all, I must say that one can be satisfied with the money that has now been invested in repairing these roads, but this is an endless construction site, because 2.4 billion is this repair debt, which means that we still have enough work to get the Finnish roads, this national treasure, if you can say so.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u231	Mr. Speaker! The old car wrecking fee has come up. It was also discussed in the section, and it was stated by experts that it is not worth it every year. It was in 2015, and there is very good experience in it, which is in favour of perhaps another two to three years from now it might be a good time to introduce this procedure. Mr. Speaker! There has been a debate here about this steering wheel project in Tampere. Of course, it does not belong to us as such, but I would say that Sastamala electric buses would have been a much better, more flexible and more modern system than this rigid, 19th-century tram system, which conforms to basic technology. But that is what has been decided. Mr. Speaker! Thirdly, this transport network project is very important and I believe that my group will support it. The study is under way, and hopefully it will provide models that can be approved and implemented quickly. It will enable large projects to be carried out quickly and flexibly, and it will certainly be quick to recover profits. It is just a problem: apparently, how the company is financed, what taxes are transferred to it, what systems are needed, and, for example, how Parliament can influence transport policy when a company that is set up outside the budget manages such important matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u232	Mr President! Just a few more things from the traffic department. Firstly, this fibre net, which has been mentioned a great deal. It is absolutely necessary to build an identical high-speed fibre-based network in this country, which will ensure the 100-megabit network for each of the Finns, which is probably a good goal. I have wondered when, during the last parliamentary term, 2009, Vanhanen's second government made a basic decision to join this project. Quite a number of municipalities have already established those fibre optic connections. The construction project for Ilomants in my municipality of residence is already complete, and the fibre network is fully operational and is very necessary and useful. I would now like to ask the government — while there is no special name for this project for this parliamentary term, the money left over from the last parliamentary term will still be used — to raise this issue in this mid-term review, because without optical fibre technology these wireless broadband connections will not work properly either, because the fact is that there must be a fibre connection between the various connecting masts, and the wireless broadband network will also be able to play. In other words, optical fibre technology is needed, and at the same time it supports this wireless network. The second point, Mr President, is the leak of freedom of expression mentioned by Mr Tolppane. There is certainly complete freedom of expression in Finland, and that is the way it should be. Journalists themselves have the rules they themselves have drawn up, the rules of 2014 drawn up by the Finnish Journalist Association, according to which journalists do their valuable work, and there are clear instructions on how to proceed. That's what this last sound was all about. As far as Yle's internal affairs are concerned, I'm sure they can figure that out for themselves there, there's no need for outside assistants. But you always have to remember, when you talk about freedom of speech, no matter what you say, there's always a responsibility. One responsibility is compliance with the existing rules.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u233	Mr President! The functioning of roads, freeways and information networks is a necessity for an open and active society. In addition to caring for the maintenance of the fairway, building new routes is also the best policy to improve the conditions for employment and entrepreneurship and enable housing everywhere in Finland. There are a number of such balanced transport policy solutions in the budget under discussion. One of these important future solutions is the allocation of EUR 10 million for the planning of the fast Helsinki-Turku train connection next year. This "hour train" project has been in discussions and visions for decades. The regional reserves of the regional plans are probably already of age. So the construction of a fast new train connection has been wanted for a long time, but this desire has not changed into flesh until now. Now, the fast new railway line, the Helsinki-Turku connection, as well as the further planning of local transport planned to accompany it, will be put into practice. I would like to thank Mr Berner in particular. If it hadn't been for him, an hour's train would have moved on now. This is a very large and long-term project, but profitability estimates suggest that the benefits for Uusimaa, Western Finland and our country as a whole make the project financially viable. Hopefully, planning will proceed smoothly and harmoniously so that we can make further decisions on the project as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u234	Mr President! In addition to new innovations and solutions, Sipilä's Government invests in basic bus maintenance. The correction debt is already being reduced by almost EUR 1 billion, which has already been expressed by a number of representatives here. This is a great effort from the government and Minister Berner. Renovation debt projects bring work to our society and improve business opportunities. Without you in good shape, it's hard for the business community to act. A functioning road network is needed throughout the country. The correction debt programme will target a level increase of 10 million for the next three years in the maintenance and improvement of private roads. This will also help to strengthen the bioeconomy by making wood more mobile from less populated areas. EUR 700 million will be allocated to new infrastructure investments. With gratitude for this pot, I can really get part of the renovation of highway 4 between Oulu and Kemi in my home country, North Ostrobothnia. The traffic arch has entered the second phase. The aim is to promote the interoperability of different modes of transport, thus facilitating the formation and provision of travel chains to customers. New innovations and digitalisation will also guide this project. These reforms should also be expected to develop mobility rather than as a threat. The aim is to find a model that opens up public transport interfaces, from which customers will benefit as better service packages. These could include, for example, customer orientation, interoperability of ticket and travel systems to enable smooth travel chains, and easily accessible information on public transport timetables, prices and travel chains. In the future, the support of our society for empty public transport vehicles will no longer be enough, but we must genuinely change the focus of the system in a customer-oriented direction.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u235	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to a few more points in this debate. The investment in trams in Tampere and the state aid it receives have been highlighted. It has been admitted, but I myself would have considered it a much more sensible option if the Tamperes too had understood to take the Sastamalaean electric bus there. It would have been environmentally friendly, flexible, served Finnish industry and probably regional policy with an excellent solution. However, in a bus with rubber wheels, the front wheels always turn in the direction of the street they want, and now that tram traffic will come to Tampere in the future, it will be tied to those rails, whether they want it or not, so such a modern electric bus would have been a great choice for the Tampere people too. There was also a great deal of concern about Christmas postcards going to Korvatunturi, whether they will arrive in due course. I am also very concerned that the children of the future will be able to get their message to Santa, which is why fiber optics are also necessary there in the north. I therefore hope that this government-driven project of making all the so-called smokes accessible to fibre cables will also guarantee that in the future children will also receive this important letter from Santa in electronic form, because whether we like it or not, the children of the future will write it electronically. I hope they also write a card for Santa, but this electronic fibre is also a necessity there in the landscape of the Korantunturi.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u236	Mr President! Perhaps this tram in Tampere deserves more attention in the sense that I think it is the strangest episode in this section. It is strange that the majority government spends more than 70 million on a project which I believe the local delegates of the two largest parties were rather unitedly opposed to, and nobody in this Chamber seems particularly in favour of it. It reminds me of the question that is he now waving a dog, and how these things can be affected in general. Of course, it is good that only one third of the money is given, but is there any need for support at all? I think that tram will correct a problem that does not exist. This sounds like some sort of traffic Guggenheim — the difference is that he is now going to have that state money, no matter how much we rap here.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u237	Mr President! For all those who want electric buses to Tampere, I can tell you that the electric bus traffic has started today in Tampere. The electric bus line number 2 between Pyynikintori and Rauhaniemi has started operations shortly after 10 a.m. today, just as scheduled. Electric buses and trams are neither in Tampere nor anywhere else where trams are considered, no alternative to each other, but complement each other. When it comes to domesticity, Tampere orders those trams from Kainuu. You would think that there are also representatives in this Chamber who are interested in this matter. This public transport solution in Tampere is probably one of the most thoroughly explained issues decided in Finnish municipalities. According to the studies, it is by far the most economical option in the long term, because the cost of both energy and other operation of the tram is clearly the most advantageous. Moreover, precisely because the tram line remains stationary and can be trusted, it also enables urban structure development, closer settlement along its line. But really the electric buses will come, and I hope that the shorter-distance traffic and also the tram line feed as quickly as possible will be transferred to electric buses, and I hope that the disabled in those biddings will be all right in due course.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u238	Mr President! The debate has been taking place for a long time, but I myself would like to say briefly to the administrative branch of the Ministry of Transport and Communications that the government is actually the first in the history of the country to take up this debt of correction in this way. We collect as much as 7 billion taxes from transport in different ways, through fuel and car tax and others, and we are still trying to find new taxes on the transport side. They may be discussed later on, but it is good that even now money is being channelled here for the maintenance of the road network. There is a large repair debt, and perhaps a quarter of it can now be reached, that is, if we move at the same rate, it would take 12 years — if there were no more repair debt, and when the fact is that there will also be more annually, then even in the three parliamentary years this correction debt will not be taken. Mr President! Then I am concerned that Minister Berner has not more actively intervened as Minister of Ownership Steering at VR that VR has now decided, for example, that trains on the main track will not stop in Hämeenlinna or Riihimäki, and they are areas which this government has otherwise approved and recognised as the central growth corridor of this country. The MAL agreements have been concluded in this area, and now VR, who has the exclusive and special role, does not, for some reason, want to take care of that task and leave several hundred thousand Hämeenlinna passengers without these services during the year. I myself have come to the conclusion that I am no longer in a position to defend VR's special role and monopoly,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u239	Mr President! We have a large repair debt package and a lot of results will be achieved with it. But even after that, there's still so much left to fix. That is why we need to introduce this digitalisation and new technology. In Finland, we use domestic technology, soil radar systems, which can be used to study the condition of the roads very carefully. Take, for example, the dental treatment: So if 20 percent of the teeth are in really bad shape, then you feel that everything is really weak. What do we do? You don’t take all your dental equipment at the time, but you do take X-rays and find out that those teeth are broken. Those teeth will be fixed, and good things will be done. What about the roads? If 20 percent of the road is in bad shape, that is, 200 meters a mile, what is being done today? Today it is stated that the road is in such a bad condition that it has to be repaired in its entirety — and otherwise it is an incredibly expensive system. With the current technology, we will be able to examine these roads in what condition they are, and it is possible that when they are examined with a soil probe, only 20% will be repaired, and we will have a very good result and there will be a great deal of money to repair the road. In a similar way, proactive activity, that is, when teeth are treated, brushed constantly, does not need to be patched up. On the road side, it is the same thing that if the earth sweeper can be studied and handled proactively, then these repairs need not be done. I hope that in the near future this system will accomplish a lot of functions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u240	Mr President! I listened to that debate in Tampere, and it is now clear how much competition we have here among ourselves is beginning to have on these job targets. I looked at the entrepreneur who got this steering wheel order and development there in Tampere, and it is Transtech Oy and Omanmäki, and regional policy needs those jobs too. I hope that this side will satisfy these others, who have lost their share, but that these jobs have remained in Finland and in the good direction of regional policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u241	Section 29 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Education and Culture is now presented.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u242	Mr President! On behalf of the Section for Education and Training, I am very pleased to say that EUR 12445000 has been invested in education, knowledge and culture as well as in art, which can be seen as substantial, given the overall potential of the Committee on Finance to target, so to speak. These are aimed, among other things, at promoting education and education, and at strengthening culture and tradition. In addition, the committee has allocated resources to measures to prevent exclusion. Mr President! First, education and early childhood education. The Committee stresses the need for an item of EUR 2 million to promote the development of quality and continuing education in early childhood education. Then I'll go into general. As far as education is concerned, the Committee notes that the level of funding is being reduced by a reduction in the share of state aids. The appropriation for the promotion of educational equality has also decreased significantly in recent years, but remains important in promoting, among other things, educational equality. The committee will therefore add EUR 1.8 million to this item in order to improve the quality of pre-school and basic education. Support for club activities for schoolchildren is also important, as there is only about one third of the budget level a few years ago. The committee therefore adds EUR 3 million to support school club activities. In addition, the committee adds EUR 50000 as a grant for the activities of Christian schools, EUR 100000 for study centres and EUR 100000 for the activities of the Finnish Theological College, EUR 230000 for the activities of the Finnish Schools, EUR 50000 for the activities of the People's Education Society and EUR 30000 for the Society of Sofia and the Federation of Karelia. Mr President! The funding of vocational education and training is deteriorating and it is therefore important to state that the Committee considers regional accessibility to be important and that savings should be sought primarily in ways other than reducing the number of student seats. The committee decided on a statement according to which Parliament requires the Ministry of Education and Culture to monitor changes resulting from the reduction in funding for vocational education and training, as well as their impact by region, industry and pupil toxicity, and to take measures, if necessary, to ensure the adequacy and accessibility of educational places. It is also positive that EUR 10 million will be allocated to the Youth Adult Skills Programme next year and that the programme will be extended for two years. Mr President! Then a few words about universities and the contribution of knowledge. While the share of R & D expenditure in Finland is still among the highest in the world, the situation is worrying, as many competing countries are increasing R & D investment while Finland's investments are decreasing. The funding of higher education institutions will be reduced in particular by the Competitiveness Pact and the audit of the university index. However, the committee welcomes the fact that a number of investments are on the way, including through the funding of key projects. They will strengthen cooperation between universities and industry in order to commercialise innovations. Mr President! The Committee welcomes the introduction in Finland of a system of incentives for the audiovisual sector in line with the model of compensation. Of the museums, we note that the sufficiency of the Board of Antiquities is at stake. The committee considers that the adequacy of the funding provided by the National Board of Antiquities should be monitored and, if necessary, the level of appropriations re-evaluated. The committee adds EUR 100000 in order to ensure the opening hours of the Tamminieme Museum of Urho Kekkonen during the centenary year 2017. The scarcity of funding for theatres and orchestras and museums as a result of the indices of the Competitiveness Pact and the decision on the spending limits has made it considerably more difficult for them to operate. The Committee considers it important for the government to provide funding for theatres, orchestras and museums for its part. One option is to assess the possibilities of allocating employment-based grants to art and culture from the undivided resources of Veikkaus. The Committee welcomes the fact that next year's budget for lending to authors of protected works will amount to EUR 15.6 million. Then we have numerous budget proposals for organisations whose financial situation must be resolved in the future, including the design and construction of the exhibition of the pre-industrial time collection to be transferred to the Agriculture Museum Sarka, the Pansari Museum Foundation, the Foundation for the Protection of the Farm Culture of Riuttala to ensure the operation of the Ruuttala Farm Museum. Furthermore, we note that we are increasing funding for various music festivals, among other things, and we note that it is also important to promote literary literature, so the committee adds EUR 50000 to the promotion of literary literature. Mr President! Well, let's just say it's a little short for sports. This too is important because we say that it is possible to promote well-being and health through physical activity as well. Thus, the state must first ensure the development and survival of the Olympic Stadium for future generations. The committee will also ensure that EUR 500000 is added to the grants for athletes, to the grant of the Foundation for the Promotion of Sports and also to the expert support for sports academies. The committee adds funding to the youth and education activities of the Friends of Soittity and also to the youth work of the Finnish Association Back to Life. Finally, Mr President, the fight against exclusion is becoming increasingly important, because the OECD average is 17% of the way young people between the ages of 20 and 24 are out of working life or education in society. In Finland it is 18,3, so in this respect the committee allocates EUR 2650000 to support young people at risk of exclusion, so that the appropriation is used to start and develop cooperative support activities for organisations. Finally, Mr President, it is also important to promote culture, in other words, to support the Karelian language and other things. I would also like to say that the capital of the Foundation for Culture should also be mapped out, because Estonia is the only neighbouring country with which Finland does not have a cultural fund. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u243	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u244	Mr President! Thank you to the committee, to Parliament for your good cooperation and for the extra EUR 12 million invested in education and education services. I value them very much, and so I believe that others do. High levels of education, high quality early childhood education and free world-class education will continue to be the foundation of Finnish society. It is good to build the future of Finland on the basis of a high level of expertise on the eve of the centenary year. With key projects in education and skills, the Government renews education with all its steps from early childhood education to higher education. A total of EUR 300 million will be allocated to the financing of major projects between 2016 and 2018. Mr President! I will start with early childhood education, which is the right of every child. I attach particular importance to the pedagogical development of early childhood education and to supporting the growth of the child. That is why it is great that we have been able to reduce early childhood education fees together with you. This will allow more and more children to participate in early childhood education. We will certainly be able to raise that rate of early childhood education participation with this measure. At the same time, we increase the incentive for work and equality in working life and the purchasing power of families with children. The Committee on Finance has proposed an increase of EUR 2 million in the development and further training of the quality of early childhood education. In line with the committee's report, it is also very important that the law on early childhood education be fully updated. We will continue to develop early childhood education at the Ministry of Education and Culture. We will also continue to reform comprehensive school: new curricula are in force and are now being implemented in Finnish schools. The purpose of new pedagogy, new learning environments and educationally appropriate digitalisation is to make learning more inspiring throughout life. This is also how we respond to the challenges raised in the Pisa study. In order to improve the quality of pre-school and basic education, the Committee proposes an additional EUR 1.8 million. It is particularly important that the results and good practices of the development measures be disseminated nationally for use. I also welcome the EUR 3 million increase proposed to support school club activities. Club activities have diverse effects in support of the growth and development of children and young people. In addition, strengthening club activities improves the accessibility of children's culture and basic art education. Mr President! The Committee on Finance has only expressed its concern about the introduction of a reform of vocational education and training in 2018, when the reduction in appropriations for vocational education and training will be implemented next year. The Ministry of Education and Culture has carried out a thorough analysis of the measures taken to adapt the organisers of vocational education and training. The financial situation of the providers of training varies, as well as the range of measures to adapt the tasks. The Ministry of Education and Culture will monitor the consequences of the reduction in funding by region, industry and student toxicity. The Government has paid particular attention to promoting the operating conditions and research and effectiveness of higher education institutions. An additional EUR 30 million will be allocated to strengthen the digital learning environments of higher education and improve the conditions for year-round learning. Attention has also been paid to the effectiveness of research and the commercial promotion of research results and to strengthening cooperation between universities and industry. The appropriations for the Academy of Finland will include additional funding of EUR 8 million next year. In addition, last September, the government has set up a working group on my proposal to prepare alternative models for research and innovation in additional resources. Decisions will be made in the next budgetary plan in spring 2017. The Committee on Finance has drawn attention to the fact that the draft budget contains a number of elements supporting the achievement of the objectives of art and culture. The Government aims to increase equal opportunities for children and young people to participate in art and culture. The provision of basic art education and other artistic and cultural activities will be increased. The principle of percentage art is extended. The incentive to produce in the audiovisual sector will be introduced. The aim is to increase Finland’s attractiveness, competitiveness as a place for both domestic and international productions. This will increase the skills and jobs of the sector. The Committee on Finance has also drawn attention to the level of lending compensation to authors by increasing it by EUR 6.3 million, which is a fine culture during the celebration of Finland's independence. Mr President! Much more is available here: The Youth Guarantee will be developed further, looking for the most effective ways to tackle the social exclusion of young people. I would also like to highlight, like the committee, the issue of the nationalisation of moving schools, which will enable children and young people to move more and achieve these goals and thus to be able to do well. And I'm sure there's a lot of other things we can discuss today. Thank you again for your cooperation, which has been very good.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u245	And now we have the opportunity to ask for one-minute answers, and the debate will be initiated by the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, Mr Puumala.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u246	Mr. Speaker! There will certainly be criticism of the various savings in the debate ahead and praise certain additions. However, I would like to start with a slightly larger penchel that I would argue that in Finnish education it is not essential to add an amount or have to pinch something. I would say that our great challenge is that the world is changing, that working life is changing at enormous speed and that it is challenging our education system very strongly in the coming year and years. On the other hand, there are changes in society that will then appear in, say, Pisa results, and they will also challenge our education. That would be the most important thing for us to achieve a shared picture of the situation across party boundaries and, on the other hand, to be able to create a common vision in this Chamber, too, across party boundaries, what Finnish education will be, how it should develop, what we should do together. I hope that this debate will continue to take place a great deal today.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u247	Mr President! Of course, Mr Puumala's view of the importance of challenging working life is easy to agree with, but that is precisely why we Social Democrats are concerned that equality in education and regional equality are now at risk. That is precisely what will then be reflected in all the skills needed in the world of work and society. In other words, these increases, which are now going to be made in EUR 12 million, are of course better than nothing, but these increases will not prevent a fall in the level of education and learning outcomes and will not restore equality in education. I only have a figure here: 2014 was awarded to reduce teaching groups by 60 million and equal opportunities by 27,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u248	Mr President! Yes, that money alone would certainly not save Finnish education. — The strength of Finnish education is good basic education and high quality early childhood education. That is why it is essential that we have a leading project in basic education and that we reform teacher training there — it is a diamond that is praised in every speech. But it was also a good thing, Mr President, that the Committee on Budgets made specific contributions. It is good that the development money for early childhood education comes and we can implement the national plans for early childhood education. In order to improve the quality of basic education there was a precision increase, and we doubled club funding, and it is really important that every child has the opportunity to engage in a hobby and that for families where it is not economically possible to make a child engage in a hobby, these clubs are available — for everyone. I consider the contributions made by the Committee on Finance to be good and they support the government's education policy, which aims to ensure that every child in early childhood education and basic education receives such life-forms as to continue at least:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u249	Mr President! The decision of the Board of Directors to cut the student grant by one month’s daily lunches and breakfasts, i.e. EUR 86, increases the learning differences among young people, the inheritance of higher education and the risk of dropping out of studies and prolongs study periods. At the same time, while the starting places for vocational education and local education are being cut and the youth guarantee is effectively being taken away, we are facing an increasing risk of a social time bomb due to the growth of exclusion and inequality. Folding the debt and putting the economy in order is a bad argument for cutting the income of students. If the economy is to be set up, it is necessary to put resources in place to support productivity and high levels of knowledge. When we take care of high levels of competence and equality in education, we also take care of the economy and the future of Finland. How does the Minister for Education respond to the concerns of students about their everyday lives? Could the answer be perhaps free of charge,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u250	Mr President! Of course, it is clear that the adequacy, increase or reduction of money alone will not solve all the educational problems. It is extremely important that there is a clear goal in the world of education: what is the aim of education? But of course it is clear that if the sprouting prospects begin to materialise, then, of course, the fruit should not be expropriated in haste, but if there is a divisional margin, then it is quite clear that education should be the first one to receive additional funding — especially in a situation where the world is changing. Just now, a section of the Ministry of Employment and the
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u251	Mr President! Of course, the biggest problems for the government will have to accept student money cuts and massive cuts in vocational education and training. But after these conflicts, I would like to thank the government parties in the finance department for the fact that the report includes a statement on the implementation of the basic improvement and renewal of the Helsinki Olympic Stadium on the basis of the approved project plan. Only in this way, in the opinion of some studies, the future of the world's most valuable sports building can be secured for future generations, whether in sport, culture, tourism or other uses. This was an important and vigorous line from the representatives of the government parties that it was recorded in this way in the report.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u252	Mr President! Recently, new Pisa results were published, and of course there were many things to be relieved about, but particularly worrying are the differences between girls and boys in learning outcomes. We also noticed that there have been quite large skill gaps between different parts of the country when looking at the results of girls and boys. In particular, it seems that the sons of Eastern Finns and their learning outcomes are weaker than in other parts of the country. I would like to ask the Minister for Education: how can we tackle precisely these skills and learning gaps between different parts of the country and how can we develop the skills of teachers in such a way that these problems can be addressed?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u253	Mr President! I myself and Mrs Eloranta have called for a national vision for education as a whole, and now, thank you to the Minister for that, we are working on a parliamentary working group that is considering comprehensive school. And if I understand correctly, there will also be other such groups. How could these separate working groups provide such an overall picture, a comprehensive strategy and a national vision? Mr President! Early childhood education has been weakened — or the government has made decisions that make it possible to weaken. One thing that is certainly coming is that club activities could be offered in connection with preschool, not so much kindergarten education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u254	Mr President! It pays to invest in education and, in that respect, it is an excellent thing that we will hopefully no longer make any more savings in education. I hope it's our story from now on. I agree with Mr Nylander that there is certainly a place when we have different working groups, a reason to have such an overview of the education system, and that is something that needs to be done from time to time. However, I would like to point out here our assessment of the state of science in which we estimate that the state of science in 2016 is stable. We've developed a little, but the guys around us are running faster. And one of the most important explanations is that there are international researchers and research communities. Finnish know-how, when looking at researchers, is negative. It is a fundamental question, therefore, what kind of shared story of science we are going to make for the future, so that we can turn Finnish science to the international top.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u255	Mr President! Indeed, the new Pisa results show an increase in inequality. Even ten years ago, when family background, parents ’ incomes, or education did not matter how well the children did, that was a positive exception compared to many other countries and we were proud of it. Now this advantage really has disappeared.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u258	Mr President! However, we have free education for all children and young people, a place of education, which is really important, it must be maintained in the future. And I would like, as Mr Puumala, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, to see us working together now to have a good debate for the future. I would like to ask the Minister about two things. Suitability tests in local nursing training: Silja Paavola, the chairman of SuPer, has been concerned about when they are being removed. This Sora legislation has dealt with very few issues, and it will be a little late by then. The second point is language testing. How extensive will this free language experiment be? It's not enough if it's only in a few municipalities. And the minister has promised that it will take place next year. Is there any more detailed information on that?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u259	Mr President! The latest Pisa results give a worrying picture of the state of mathematics and science in Finnish schools. However, our exports are mainly made up of products from the technology industry, whose design and production planning are carried out by technicians in the field of mathematics and science. However, the number of long-term mathematics writers has been falling for a long time, and the recent Pisa results indeed show that mathematics is already beginning to detoxify at primary school. In recent years we have been concerned about handicrafts, art materials, exercise. On the other hand, there has not been a similar national debate on mathematics and science in schools, although they are indeed the basis of the competitiveness of the Finnish export industry. It would be high time to start worrying about mathematics and science too. Should one take an hour of math a day as a common principle?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u261	Mr President! Of course, now that we are dealing with the administration of the Ministry of Education and Culture, I am sure that this study allowance cut will speak. It should be noted, however, that in the same field of administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, when students move into the general housing allowance, it is precisely low-income students who win in this change, i.e. the lowest-income ones increase by up to hundreds of euros this total income during their studies. I'm sure this is a good thing to consider. At the same time, concern must be given to family students, and this statement by the Committee on Education and Culture expressed its opinion that this increase in guardianship should be taken into account. At least the situation of family students is not getting worse, and I would also like to see this discussed. Then I would be concerned about the situation of teacher training in the future. This situation is particularly visible in Eastern Finland, and perhaps this will be more visible in future results, such as the Pisa results.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u262	Mr President! Finland's competitiveness has always been based on high-quality education, high-quality knowledge and innovation. Now the government is crumbling and divising the entire Finnish education system by cutting EUR 190 million from vocational education by increasing group sizes and cutting the income of students. The cut in vocational education corresponds to 18,000 starting places. Can we afford to increase school drop-outs, exacerbate the social exclusion of young people and reduce skills? The Left Alliance doesn't think so. On the contrary, we want to reduce group sizes, increase investment in both early childhood education and primary and secondary education as well as higher education. We need to invest in research and product development now if we are to keep up with it. I ask you, Minister: are you prepared to cancel the massive cuts planned for vocational education and training, so as to ensure equal opportunities for children and young people in Finland in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u263	I will give the floor to Mr Sirén, Mr Stefan and Mr Krista. Then the Minister's reply. — — — — Congressman Sirén.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u264	Mr President! In this section, the debate revolves largely around education, and that is all well and good, but I would like to raise these other cultural policy themes at this stage, which are also very important. It is worth noting, for example, culture and the fact that there are no direct cuts to culture in the programme of this government, which is a big thank you to the government. On the other hand, there have been very positive cultural policies, good decisions, such as the incentive for audiovisual production, of which funding for next year, this legal compensation, which has been tried for a long time and which has now finally been obtained, and the enlargement that has been involved, and also the improvement of the opportunities for children and young people to engage in leisure activities, which has also been highlighted in this committee's report. These are good things that focus on the future: preventing the exclusion of young people, a hobby guarantee,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u265	Mr President! The university fundraising campaign is currently in full swing and will end next summer. With its own contribution, the State will triple this sum if it does not exceed EUR 50 million — EUR 150 million has been budgeted for this purpose in next year's budget. Private donation is always a happy thing, and it would be a shame if the state could not participate in this collection with this promised triple. If the total amount collected exceeds EUR 50 million, then the cutter will meet. If so, would the government be prepared, perhaps through an amending budget, to increase its own investment in this fundraising campaign?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u266	Mr President! You don't have to go around like a cat with a hot oatmeal. The fact is that one third of the government's cuts — one third of all cuts — are allocated to the main sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture. I think it's a pretty big choice of values, and it tells me a thousand words. For example, in 2014, EUR 87 million was spent on educational equality work and reducing group sizes. It is now EUR 15.2 million. It does say something about the harsh language that in some way the direction of primary school is lost. Let us not lose sight of the way, that is clear: at the end of the last term of government, the parliamentary working group that renewed the primary school advised the future government to leave the primary school alone, both with regard to the state and with regard to this money, but this did not happen. I am very disappointed in that. Mr President! Finally, when, Minister, will this club activity for pre-school education be extended?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u267	Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u268	Mr President! Thank you for this debate. There were many different subjects, and I will start with that Pisa, because it will certainly be on the lips of so many when it is a topical matter. It tells us, of course, not only that Finnish young people are still at the top of the world's learning outcomes, but also that we have equal opportunities challenges, but also three types: Regional differences are reflected for the first time in this study, which, of course, is definitely the place for consideration. The second point is this strengthening of the socio-economic impact, which is very ill-suited to the story and basic idea of comprehensive school, i.e. that we have high-quality, equal, free basic school services for all children and young people regardless of their background. The third point is gender equality, i.e. there is a particular concern about boys and the fact that we have the greatest differences in learning between girls and boys from all OECD countries. Of course, we have already responded to these challenges with a great many different actions. It has been one and a half years since these Pisa results were collected, and since then new curricula have entered into force. They aim to improve learning outcomes and, above all, to focus on the joy of learning, on motivation, on how learning can be inspired and on how to take into account the different ways and paces of learning. So a learner-oriented starting point for completing comprehensive school in that ops is strongly involved, and of course many substantive changes. This government invests very strongly and strongly in the skills of teachers. We have a new Teacher Education Development Programme, and EUR 60 million of the EUR 90 million New Comprehensive School Programme will be used to strengthen teachers' skills, and research-based, and by taking it from the career career of teachers to everyday life and schools, to day-to-day work, among other things, with this model of tutoring teachers, which, by the way, the municipalities, the providers of education, went with great enthusiasm in the first application. 80% of our schools were enthusiastic about this, and the aim is, of course, to get everyone involved. Then there was a particular question here about this knowledge of science and mathematics. The representative of the plant asked about the subject, and thank you for raising this theme specifically. This fall in the learning outcomes of science and mathematics is a subject on which we must focus, especially because there is a strong lack of motivation. That learning science and mathematics is not as inspiring as it used to be, and that is exactly what we need to be able to find through the development of solutions. One very concrete measure is that next year the Luma Centre and Luma activities will come to the stage of nationalisation, which I hope will provide help to this end, and it will try to influence these attitudes above all and then the pedagogy and its development. The focus is already starting from the small children to get their motivation started, and one of the key things is to connect it to the sight of children and young people, that why learning mathematics and science is important and why it is worth getting excited about. Then I'm sure you'll see it later in the results. It's a big deal. A month of hobby from a great many starting points came up in this discussion in the hall. A working group is under way to ensure that every child and young person has the opportunity to engage in and have a pleasant hobby, at least one. It can be influenced by these key cultural and artistic projects and also by this 'hours of exercise per day' and also by the club money added by Parliament and various activities that we started to take forward. Understandably, there were questions about student aid because there are cuts to student money. Fortunately, it is also the case that the vision of the future is not quite gloomy when it was also able to remedy certain shortcomings in the same context in a positive way. One of these is this transition to general housing allowance for students, which has been the long-term objective of student organisations and which will help students who have been particularly vulnerable in terms of housing. There is the removal of the impact of parents' income from student support and a few other changes, such as linking income limits or its earnings development to the index and so on. The state of science was announced today, and it is definitely worth getting to know. It shows, as stated here, that the state of science in Finland is stable. We have increased internationalism, but of course we should be able to keep up with the tightening competition. I would like to conclude by saying that the chairman of the committee, Mr Puumala, at the beginning of the debate, referred us back to the big picture of the rapid change in the world and the change in society and the change in skills needs, and I hope that in this debate we will still be able to apply for medicines on how we make our education system.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u269	Now we're going to take the next debut round.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u270	Mr President! Society has always evolved with technological progress: think about things like printing, railways or electric lights. In today's society, the most important technological development is that of digitalisation, which has already been raised here by the Minister, and surely in teacher training and in schools digitalisation will have enormous significance. At the same time, Minister for Education, it would be important to remember that the importance of literacy remains invaluable. The way in which digitalisation can contribute to the strengthening of literacy should be monitored. We have the results of the decline in literacy among those who have completed their comprehensive school. So this is a focus area where more effort should be made when we consider digitalisation in schools: how can we improve literacy so that digitalisation does not become a barrier to literacy?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u271	Mr President! Great consideration has now been given to our desire to improve the socio-economic position of top athletes, as we Finns are, in a certain way, sports-crazy people and we always want to see the movements of blue and white athletes. We have good skills in sports clubs and a strong desire for major events, especially in winter sports, because we have this long and snowy winter in the Nordic region, i.e. snow security. But now it seems that the organisation of the games often requires performance sites that meet international criteria, and here are then placed municipalities and sports clubs in a way like this in mutual competition. Would it be possible for us to have such a national top-notch competition programme or strategy so that we could agree among ourselves which areas and locations?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u272	Mr President! This is where the sport came in. To begin with, we must thank the Minister for the fact that these young top sportsmen's promises are now receiving this extra 500,000.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u275	Mr President! Economist doctors have said that we Finns doubt our own abilities, avoid risks and do not always understand how to take advantage of the experiences of others. This support for self-esteem is a very important issue and support for it should start from early childhood education. Courage, knowledge and ideas matter. For the time being, we may be able to boast a little with the Pisa results, although they have fallen slightly, but Sweden has always had those scientific peaks. It is good that this government carries out an experimental culture with courage and creativity and also an impact assessment in higher education institutions. How well we manage to combine business and higher education — that is the source of Finland’s growth story. It is great that there are investments in the activities of Christian schools, this EUR 50,000, and Back to Life youth work and definitely this free language choice.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u276	Mr President! There was a call for a bigger picture of what this situation is at the moment. Looking at the opinion of the committee, this is where it says at the outset: "The relative position of Finland as a knowledge society has deteriorated and the rise in educational attainment has stopped. The level of competence of young people is falling." This, combined with the alarming information on what we are constantly getting about the inequality of our young people — can only agree with Mr Huhtasaari that we should look at our early childhood education in particular. Investing in early childhood education is the most effective way to combat inequality among our young people. Now that we know — and there was also concern here about how our young people are increasingly differentiated by their place of residence — it is precisely these government early childhood education cuts that have been carried out in all areas where things are worse now. Therefore, it would be particularly valuable in this situation for the government to review these decisions.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u277	Mr President! Indeed, in that section of the Committee on Finance, in which I have been a member, the discussion of this section has gone well, in good cooperation between the members of the section and also in the direction of the minister and ministry. However, the challenges are quite considerable, and the committee has made good additions, emphasising precisely the cultural, youth and also the socio-economic situation in sport. However, perhaps the main challenge is vocational training, which is the Committee's contribution. Now that these savings are quite large and the synchronisation of the reform is challenging, it is therefore worth looking at, but especially for a slightly more positive reason that jobs are now starting to increase, especially in certain sectors of industry, especially in that direction in Southwest Finland and elsewhere. This is also a challenge, of course, for education, where OKM and TEM must now work very well together,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u278	Mr President! As the Minister said, there are very large regional differences in learning, and perhaps one of the reasons for this is that we have very large differences in terms of the survival of the municipalities. We have rich municipalities that have the opportunity to retain subjective day care rights and smaller groups, even if the state shares are being cut. They will probably also have the opportunity to invest in resource education on the school side, in the contribution of assistants, in reducing group sizes, even though there will be no subsidy from the state side. They will probably also have the opportunity to invest in secondary education, even though the 190 million will be taken out of the state shares of secondary education — and exactly what Mrs Wallinheimo referred to, because the municipalities are many times the country's bigger financier in children's hobbies, creating conditions, supporting clubs with free sports facilities and so on. This is why I'm worried.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u279	Mr President! There has been a great deal of talk in this debate about regional differentiation in education and various opportunities. On the other hand, you can say that a different, new information society would provide opportunities for a completely new kind of learning everywhere in Finland. It has been estimated that such interactive digital learning can actually be even more personal than traditional classroom learning if it is genuinely introduced. It would also provide a similar opportunity to learn even less common languages, whether in Lapland or Helsinki. So I ask the Minister: how do we promote this style of learning in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u280	Mr President! First the roses: Thank you for raising the quote. That is the expected reform. Thank you, too, for launching the audiovisual production incentive system. Then the skirmishes: The huge cuts in vocational education and training are a threat to Finnish competence, but they also threaten to increase the social exclusion of young people. The second big slingshot comes from a massive cut in student money. The cut of nearly EUR 90 is a huge gap in the already small budget of poor students. But, Mr President, we must start working together to stop the worrying segregation of comprehensive school. Comprehensive school is differentiated regionally, genderly and socio-economically. The Left Alliance has drawn up a concrete list of seven points of action to halt the development of inequality in comprehensive school, and hopefully it will be read within the government. But I would like to ask the Minister what to do to reverse this tremendously worrying trend.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u281	Mr President! Finnish families are worse than before and children are worse in the family. The service system for services for children and families is silod, heavy and fragmented. Services have left the family's everyday life in their own premises, problem-oriented and professionally run. How can the whole of early childhood education, school and social and health care be developed in order to create better chances of survival for our children in the early stages of life and learning? I would like to ask the Minister: how could experts involved in early childhood education and education support the child and young people and support families, more coherently supporting young people to become a fully-fledged and capable citizen?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u282	Mr President! In a limited economic situation, it is necessary to find new ways of doing things differently. I have to say that high-quality early childhood education, high-quality basic education and secondary education, despite the tight economic situation, will continue to be of high quality, because we have a minister who dares to do things differently, and for that I thank the Minister. I would also like to express my thanks for the fact that in this section of the OKM, one third of the 12 million million allocated by Parliament goes directly to developing the activities of the organisations and strengthening their work. This is extremely wise because the third-sector euro is between 6 and 7 times the euro of the municipality or the euro of the state. And now that we are talking about having as many as 45,000 young adults who are at risk of exclusion, if new study paths and support paths are developed for them, for example, with these grants, then there will be such golden goose eggs that in the future they will save the money of our society and save many young people from the path that leads to ruin without education and working life. Thank you to the government for your cooperation,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u283	I will give the following answers to this debate: Mr Suutari, Mr Räsänen and Mr Saarikko, and then the Minister's reply and then the next round.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u284	Mr President! As a grandfather, I am concerned about equality of opportunity. The son of low-paid parents living in Kainuu rural areas has the lowest chances of success based on Pisa results. When it is a year and a half from this stage of collecting the Pisa results, I would like to ask the Minister: who in this Chamber is not responsible for this matter?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u285	Mr President! Many here have now called for this larger picture when we are dealing here with matters of education. Perhaps it is a good thing to say that the bigger picture is indeed that it is regrettable that we have halted this increase in skills. This is reflected in the fact that the level of education in our working age groups is higher than the level of education in the working age groups. Well, everyone can think about what this means then in the equation that we have talked about here a lot before, that the goal is Finland's economic development and the rise in well-being, and that only very strongly will not be possible if we have a halted level of education and a further threat of falling. That is why there should now be a little more reflection here on the future of education. And this equation is very poorly suited to the unfortunate cuts in appropriations that the current government is doing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u286	Mr President! I think that equal opportunities for culture is the greatest part of the story of 100-year-old Finland. I will continue to speak with the same spirit, where many other representatives, including Mrs Talja next door, pointed out that how we could ensure that school and places of culture are also places where people can be identified in the middle of their other lives. How could we build more and more places in primary and secondary schools where multidisciplinary cooperation takes place? I would like to ask the Minister: Under the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health there is a key project for child and family services, a significant financial investment that has to cross the lower administrative boundaries, go to schools and day care centres where the children are. How is this progressing in relation to the Ministry of Education and Culture? I would also like to ask the Minister, after thanks, about the reduction of early childhood education fees for low incomes: how:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u287	And Secretary Grahn-Laasonen, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u288	Mr President! I will start with this big picture when, in fact, in my previous speech, I decided to do so. In other words, there have been legitimate concerns here, which is related to the development of Finland's educational level. If you look at the Government's programme and the Government's vision and the long-term goals of 10 years, you will take a position on this matter by saying that we are aiming to increase the level of education and competence in Finland. And that is what we now need to do extensively. In other words, this current development, which has led to the fact that our level of education seems to be falling, has structural problems in our education system, which needs to be resolved, for example in the case of joint stages, in seeking higher education and so on. In addition to this, we must also, for example, find solutions to the high drop-out rates in education and the marginalisation of young people, and we must continue to look for them, and many actions are already on the move. I am referring, for example, to the reform of selection procedures, which is done, of course, from universities, but with national coordination and cooperation with universities. In addition to this, the programme of changes in child and family policy has emerged, namely the need for better coordination of services for children and families, and the need for another service system to support the role that schools have, and precisely so that teachers are not left alone with their burdens, but to provide broad support for both families and other services, for example, in real life situations where children and young people have problems — there are learning problems, there are problems of behaviour, there are mental health problems — which we should be able to deal with as early as possible and preferably preventively as possible. The Government's programme of changes in child and family policy provides a good opportunity for this, as well as the work that is being done within it to prevent bullying, for example: the already mentioned hobby guarantee and so on, all these activities combined with the development of education, which is being done with new curricula and so on. So there is a great deal going on at the moment, precisely here on the development side. And then, when we go to the Youth Guarantee, for example, which has been mentioned a great deal, the fundamental challenge is that, despite all the efforts that have been made, our service system will not be able to make a comprehensive contribution across sectors in many situations. So it is still seen that this is the pain and challenge that the services do not play together in a sufficient way. In other words, the aim is for children and young people — in this case the Youth Guarantee — to be able to receive services from a single door, and this Ohjaamo model, for example, has brought us good working practices, which will then be distributed to the national authorities. Representative Jaskari highlighted in a fine way the opportunities offered us by digitalisation. It enables learning to become increasingly unbounded in time and space, i.e. to learn, to spread, for example, language teaching as an example here, in sparsely populated areas, to expand language selections by digital means, in what way you can already study online, develop your own professional skills and so on. The Government supports these opportunities, the digitalisation of education through a number of measures: for example, EUR 105 million will be invested in the digitalisation of higher education and young researchers through a separate government decision, as well as all the work done on the ground school side to promote the digitalisation of comprehensive school, electronic matriculation examination has been in use for the first time and seems to be progressing well, and much more is happening. Literacy came up, and worry about it. In this context, action will also be taken: the multi-literacy project, which aims to strengthen the literacy of children and young people, in particular, multi-literacy, i.e. taking into account reading from a wide range of perspectives, will start right from the beginning of the year. And on the sport side, thank you also for these parliamentary contributions on that side. The government's focus on sports and sports is, as I have already said, on the mobility of children and young people in particular, and when you think of the top sport, this is that we have a wide range of amateur bases, children and young people on the move, and it is also the best way to support it, then there will certainly also be those who can compete there at the top of the world. Of course, Finland has a lot of investments in this regard, which are also aimed at making the most individual support possible for an athlete. But there is a place for development here, and this aid and support system on the sports side is currently being explored by the Harkimo Task Force. Here are a few aspects of an important topic. Thank you again for the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u289	We're going to take one more debatable round, and we're going to start it with Mr. Kärnä.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u290	Mr President! First of all, it should be pointed out to the opposition that the government has been accused of cuts in basic education and early childhood education that this government has strengthened the capacity of municipalities to carry out these activities, since the local government finances have been clearly strengthened during this government's term of office. Finland will soon be 100 years old, and in this country we have three endangered Sami languages: kolttasame, Inarisáme and Northern Sami. The budget that we are discussing here contains an unprecedented amount of funding, almost EUR 1 million, for the language exchange of these languages. Of course, additional resources would be urgently needed. I would have asked the Minister how you can see how we can secure the status and vitality of Sámi languages in Finland in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u291	Mr President! As has often been mentioned here, socio-economic differences in learning have been strongly highlighted in the Pisa study. Essentially, this learning and inequality also involves early childhood education, and we know that early childhood education plays an important role in learning, in the social development of the child and in interaction skills and many other things. Studies have also shown that young people who have been in regular early childhood education have had a better ability to learn and have also gone further in education to higher education than children who have not been in early childhood education. Now that the government has limited early childhood education in such a way that this is not possible equally for children of unemployed families, and now that the government has set up — I do not know whether it is
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u292	Mr President! As has already been said, the Committee on Finance has made a number of increases in appropriations for the administrative sector of the Ministry of Education and Culture, which are needed. These include EUR 3 million in school club activities and EUR 2.65 million in support of young people at risk of exclusion. They are examples of the efforts made in favour of children and young people, and thank you to the committee for these. Mr President! In addition, the committee states in its report: 'It is also necessary to ensure that regional experimentation is made possible in line with the declaration adopted by Parliament on the extension of the range of languages'. In the autumn, the Finnish Upper Secondary Education Federation also presented in its statement an extension of the language experiment to upper secondary schools. This would show the possible positive impact of free language selection on the number of languages to be written in, for example, matriculation exams. I would like to ask the Minister whether a thorough, well-prepared and clear majority of citizens' wishes for language testing will soon be submitted to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u293	Mr President! Finland is still at the forefront of education. Pisa studies come and go. Therefore, the data from this study are from April 2015 and the positive and negative actions of this government are therefore not reflected in this study, but there are a lot of concerns. Unlike the previous government, this is not the time to cut the central share of primary schools. You cut hundreds of millions of euros, and yet now we want to maintain the level of security. Inequality with regard to the central government shares of comprehensive school is not envisaged. Minister, the digital leap in education is real. Now, for all levels of school, this may not be the case. We need to get more money for comprehensive schools now for the learning environment, making digital material, learning tools, that is to say,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u294	Mr President! I, too, would like to join those who give roses in that transferring students to the general housing allowance is a good thing for many, many students, and there are many other good little things. But when the government has set itself the goal of employment and growth in particular, I ask the Minister: If the sum of a month, i.e. one month, of everyday lunches and amputations is cut by EUR 190 million from study money and vocational training, how will those measures support this goal of growth in employment and the economy and production and the building of a knowledge-based society? How will employment, economic growth, the knowledge society benefit from these massive cuts in student money and vocational training?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u295	Mr President! In Finland, learning outcomes are world class, but what is really worrying is that there are big differences in learning outcomes. That's not big news. Those results were already visible over ten years ago. I was the Minister of Education at the time when we started the development programme for basic education because every child in early childhood education and basic education would have sufficient resources to learn his or her whole life and to continue at least to a secondary level. It is very good that this government has tackled this in such a way that the national foundations for early childhood education are being implemented. Early childhood education is the most important place to act. In the development of basic education, it is essential that teacher training is developed. It's all a and o that teachers can. Great top-notch projects. The action has been taken, and it was worrying that during the time of the Social Democratic Ministers for Education, progress was halted. You then focused on the question of the lengthening of compulsory education, which fortunately then did not happen. So what's great is that we're working now, and when we're humble, we have to work.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u296	Mr President! I'd like to ask you a question about student care. We know that effective and good student care requires multi-professional cooperation, and now that most of these staff groups are moving into the provinces, how will it be ensured in the future that there will be such active student care teams in schools, even in primary schools, because that is the only way to guarantee high-quality student care? Then, Mr President, I would like to ask the question again. What will you do about what is stated in the Government Programme that club activities can be offered in connection with preschool in the future? It is known that club activities do not have the same quality and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u297	Mr President! I would like to raise an issue which is not so easily seen under the Ministry of Education alone, but which certainly involves at least the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and I am talking about skills in working life, both in managerial skills and so to speak in the field of working life. Working life is changing all the time. It's in a strong transition. I am concerned about how, on the one hand, we will be able to give these skills to our young people in comprehensive school, in secondary school, in higher education and, on the other hand, to adult people in continuing education, so that they are able and able to work as they should be. A large proportion of absenteeism is not necessarily due to physical difficulties; the problem is that it is bad to be at work. For example, what kind of discussion do you have between ministries on these matters? However, these are:
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u298	Mr President! Southwest Finland is facing a positive structural change. With the new orders, the current number of approximately 4,000 employees in Meyer Shipyard will increase to 11,000. A total of 30,000 man-years will be created around the yard with multiplier effects. The current number of employees of Valmet Automotive in New Town almost doubles to over 2,000. It is now time to ensure that these staff needs are met by domestic efforts, through the rapid introduction of the necessary training both at secondary level and at higher education institutions. The more effective and efficient training and employment measures are created, the better the conditions are for growth in Turku and New Town to be done by means of domestic forces and Finnish work. At this point, it is good to remember that we have 100,000 young people under the age of 30 and 200,000 adults without secondary education, and now would be a great opportunity to provide them with training that leads to direct employment. These savings of 190 million in vocational education and training do create quite dark clouds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u299	Mr President! The Swedes have highlighted social intelligence in these Pisa research data in general, but this result is not so bad for Finns now, but the direction is worrying if the boys do not learn mathematics. The girls are doing great. Of course, this regional inequality is a danger in schools, and let us just remember that many small upper secondary schools in rural areas have been good at teaching results, including in yo-writing. What will happen in the future? We have this very important high-quality early childhood education and comprehensive school learning, and I would like to ask the Minister about this work of school counselors. We need good teachers, but if we have a large group of teachers, we also need those school counselors who will then help those children who are having difficulty studying mathematics, for example. Of course, it is also important to support special children and to identify them and assess them. How important do you see this? It's a matter of resources. Many localities have the opportunity to organise this, but not all of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u300	Mr President! It was extremely valuable that the Minister for Education raised this concern about these interruptions and the exclusion of young people. We fully agree that, in particular, our vocational training needs reform. But the reason why we are so concerned about these cuts in vocational education and training is that we fear that this is what will cripple the work of reforming with which we would like to combat this exclusion, inequality and drop-out of school for young people. When the money is taken away when so much is cut before the reform work is done, then our fear is that all these good goals that we fully share with the Minister for Education and the Government will not be fulfilled. This is not about reform; it is about dismantling our education system, and that is why we are really concerned about this reform of vocational education and training and the huge cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u301	Mr President! Of course, this concern for vocational education and training is shared, and especially since there has been a great deal of cuts in vocational education and training over the last period, I would have liked it to have been the same in the present opposition. In fact, if you also think regionally about those cuts, almost half of all student start-ups left Lapland, one province. That where regional targeting was used properly. And then, if you look at these learning differences between Northern and Eastern Finland, it certainly comes to mind the old story of how they still haven't been eliminated, and it's actually on the table and on the agency of this government, even with these new Pisa results, how we still have great learning differences in the north and east. But I would have asked about this reform of vocational education and training. Would it be possible to obtain some kind of basis for this funding, rather like in the local government economy, which is now being strengthened, that it would not be possible to cut from it, for example, by EUR 100 per capita, for example, the basis for a 3% change in vocational education and training?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u302	Mr President! Many speakers have pointed out how confusing we are in the face of a future and society is undergoing a major change. In relation to this, the Ministry of Education does have the ability to react well and to perceive the future. Like many other representatives, I still ask about this language experiment, which is still under the green vera, but it is not known what will happen from there. The minister came out with this issue this weekend, and somehow it seemed strange that he was saying that two pilot places would be enough for a Swedish experiment. After all, everyone knows how to make that mathematical calculation, even though the skills of mathematics are deteriorating, that there are no comprehensive conclusions to be drawn on the basis of two experimental sites.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u303	Mr President! The Minister spoke beautifully about the importance of early childhood education, and I agree with all these objectives. But the reality of day-care centres is very different, and especially these group sizes have worsened the situation. Too large groups of children reduce the opportunities for skilled and skilled staff to meet, take into account and support the development and learning of the child. That is why this alternative of the Christian Democrats proposes an additional allocation to reduce the size of groups in early childhood education and basic education and, at the same time, to achieve the objectives which you, Minister, have described with merit.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u304	Mr President! It is estimated that about a quarter of children and adolescents are unwell. They lack basic care and have low self-esteem or physical-psychic symptoms. For many, the faith in the future is so low that there are hardly any dreams that are important for well-being and motivation. The transition to study and working life may be postponed due to mental disorders in the early stages of youth. They are approximately twice as common in adolescents as in children. The Youth Guarantee will not help these young people from the path of exclusion if they are unable to benefit from the study and job offered because of their problems. The low-threshold group activities of the Helsinki Diakonissalaitos Vamos have offered many young people a meaningful portal to work or study. Similar young people's life situations and abilities suggest that flexible groups continue to be in short supply throughout Finland. So I ask the Minister: could this model be distributed throughout the country?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u305	Let me give the following answers: Mr Krista and Mr Puumala, followed by the Minister's reply and then on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u306	Mr President! In fact, I think education policy is a good austerity policy in that we can help young people and children find their own way and save in the future in a preventive way that many young people and children can take such a strong path in school that they can manage. Two thirds of young people say that school is one of the main causes of exclusion. In that respect, it will certainly lead us to the big question that the fall in educational attainment, the fall in educational outcomes and the decrease in educational equality, the decline in regional equality and the differences between boys and girls are major issues — and this is not going to be helped in any way by these cuts in education once again for next year. On that point, I would like to say that state aids are being cut both as a result of the kiky agreement and because of the decision on the spending limits in the spring and many other cuts are being made. Minister, you never answered the question that has been raised here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u307	Mr. Speaker! The most speeches have been made from comprehensive school, and that is a good thing. It is still our crown jewel, and I believe there is a common will to save it and take it for the next decade. There the government has already taken on a number of issues. They're blocking the leaks. There will no longer be hundreds of millions of euro cutbacks in state shares, as in the last parliamentary term. New trails will be opened in a rather significant way, including EUR 21 million for additional and continuing teacher training next year, EUR 18 million for stimulating digital learning environments, EUR 7 million for increasing physical activity and so on. It's very important. If we can still cross sector boundaries in comprehensive school, boldly also on the side of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, it is a good idea to integrate Juho Saari's work into this. It talks about the same kind of things, about inequality, and it already starts with children and young people. I believe that with these measures we will be able to save our comprehensive school. President! To conclude, I applaud those additions made by the Committee on Finance. They are very much the same as those put forward by the Committee on Culture and Education in its own opinion. There, for example, physical activity, which was put at the centre of the committee this time, is spectacularly on the agenda, a very fine thing.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u308	Minister Grahn-Laasonen, five minutes, then on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u309	Mr President! I will try to answer as many of these questions as possible during this last speech, starting with the language experiment which has also been public. The Ministerial Group on Knowledge and Education has dealt with this issue just last week, and we have carried out an assessment of the constitutional conditions for carrying out the experiment in accordance with Parliament's efforts. It was estimated that the experiment should be limited and, of course, requires a change in the law, which is why this Chamber will still have its say on the matter. But its timetable is indeed that next year the experiment should be launched. There were more than one question of early childhood education. The development of early childhood education in terms of content is taking place strongly at the moment. The basics of early childhood education plans have been approved by the National Board of Education and we are now at the stage of the introduction into the field. I believe that the plans for early childhood education make it possible to significantly improve the quality of early childhood education and strengthen the pedagogy of early childhood education, to bring new thinking into everyday life on what can be set as objectives for early childhood education when this transfer of the administrative sector can also be carried forward, as it were, at the attitude and competence level. Efforts are being made to increase the number of university-educated kindergarten teachers, i.e. training places, starting places, have been substantially and permanently increased, and the aim is to continue this development. It also takes this pedagogy of early education forward. Similarly, early childhood education is being developed with the development aid of the Finnish National Board of Education, and thank you to Parliament for the fact that there are more and more prerequisites for development through the additional effort you have made. This legislation is also being taken forward, that is to say, the next version of the early childhood education law will be introduced in next year, and it will take a position on these issues which have also been raised in this Chamber. There were speeches on the reform of vocational education and training here, and indeed the situation is that Parliament has already said its word on these savings, but then this reform of vocational education and training will become a reality in the early part of the year. Today is the end of the consultation, and we have received a lot of valuable feedback and views on the draft law and we are going through the feedback so that early in the year we will receive a government proposal that will make a huge contribution to vocational education and training functionally and in terms of content. A lot of positive things are happening there. We will create new legislation for both young and adult education, a new system of qualifications, a new funding model that will also encourage educational institutions and education providers to invest in ensuring that education is not left unfinished by young people, that is to say, it is passed through, and so is working life relationships and the impact that students will have on the transition to working life in the best possible and smooth manner and also on further studies. This is intended to significantly dismantle bureaucracy and unnecessary regulation. Education funds will be encouraged to shift from walls and administration more strongly to securing education. Educational institutions will have more opportunities and agility to respond flexibly to the training needs of working life. Workplace learning will be increased. There are many good experiences of this both at home and internationally, and we believe that it is also one way to reduce the interruption and make learning more meaningful and to increase working life links. Study paths are becoming more individualised and so on, i.e. there are a lot of positive changes to the content that we take forward in this vocational education reform, and there has been extensive participation in the field of vocational education and training. The last time I met one of the trainers today, who gave very much positive feedback on this substantive development of vocational education and training, even though the economic situation in the field is understandable. In other words, with these provisions on the way forward, and much discussion and cooperation on this content will continue to be hoped for from the Parliament. We have a joint parliamentary work on basic education for next year on these basic education development themes, and so will the university sector, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Culture and the higher education field, carry out vision work, which is also to be followed up by parliamentary follow-up and then have different political views on that work. So thank you all, and I wish you a very peaceful and peaceful Christmas season.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u310	Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u311	Mr President! There has been a lot of talk here today that we need to understand for ourselves what the big picture is: what is happening on the educational field, what is happening in our schools, in our day-care centres, in our universities. What these Pisa studies tell us is that we have reason to be proud of our children, our young people, our teachers. Finnish young people still do very well at school, they are the best in the world. But the other thing related to the big picture is that the realities of Finnish children and young people differ. The learning outcomes of young people are increasingly influenced by where they live in Finland, what kind of family they have been born into and whether they are girls or boys. The fact that our young people's realities are so much different from each other undermines the foundations of an equal civilised state. In Finland, the difference between girls and boys is already the largest in the OECD countries. The girls in Finland were the second best in comparison with girls in all countries when the boys ranked tenth. Mr President! The boys of Finland now need our help. What this comparison of education also tells us is that the exclusion of young men is increasing in Finland and one in five of our young men is outside education and the labour market. At the same time, participation in early childhood education in Finland is at the lowest level in Europe. We know that participation in high-quality early childhood education improves child learning throughout the life of the child, and too often it is those children who need the most support. Nevertheless, the government has abolished equal rights to day care for all children and has increased the size of child groups, thus reducing the quality of early childhood education. This was done although all experts in the welfare of children say that these decisions are not in the best interests of the child, this will increase inequality between children and young people and these cuts will be very expensive for Finland. Somehow it seemed that the government parties did not quite understand what was going on here. For all children, equal access to day care is one of the biggest equality gains in this country. They are the things that have built equal childhood in Finland. The limitation of children’s rights and the raising of child groups in day care make children even more unequal. Cutting off early childhood education will weaken the position of the very children who need our support most. Every young person will pay us a million dollars, and that is why we are particularly concerned about these cuts in vocational education and training, because they will make the boys more anxious. It means less support, less education, less places to look for direction in life. This means an increasing number of marginalised young people, an increasing number of school drop-outs, an increasing number of young people who cannot find their place in society. That is why I have started to feel more and more that the government's talk about the reform of education has only served as a smoke screen for massive educational cuts. There's no reform here. It's a wreck. At the latest, the massive cuts in vocational education and training show that no sustainable savings are sought here by modernising practices. Cutting is an absolute value, and it's going to cost us a lot of money.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u312	Mr President! When Finns are asked about the greatest achievements of our nation, education has been considered one of the most important. Small and remote Finland has always believed in the revolutionary power of education and learning to promote the development of society towards a socially, ecologically and economically sustainable future. The promotion of equality in education has led to a more equal society in which people's skills and knowledge do not depend on their home background or wealth. It is no coincidence that Finland has been one of the top countries in education for a long time. Social Democrats and the rest of the opposition, our country's many economic experts, a large group of NGOs, education experts and individual groups of citizens have taken the parliamentary election vows seriously. At the same time as competitiveness has been generated by cutting workers' wages, the value of training as the creator of competitiveness has been referred to downhill despite the warnings of experts. In our view, the bravest saving would have been to put an end to such a drop in education and ideological obsolescence, which will be costly for the success of our country. It should not be forgotten that, according to the OECD study, more than one fifth of Finnish men aged 20 to 24 are unemployed or not in education. The exclusion of young people from work and education is growing rapidly. Nevertheless, despite strong appeals, the Sipilä Government stated that the need for 190 million savings in vocational education and training will be implemented one year earlier than the actual reform. The organisers of vocational education and training were obliged to make practical savings. This year they have had to decide for themselves whether to collect the savings ahead in 2017 by reducing the number of students or by cutting unit prices or by both means. Mr President! Adult education is threatening to end completely when at least young people need to be trained. The number of teachers is decreasing by thousands, so it will inevitably also result in larger group sizes and a further decrease in local education. The Government continues to insist on cuts already in 2017, even though the actual reform of content and operations is only intended for 2018. If the reform is guided by money alone, the student places in vocational education, the fields of education and the places of education threaten to concentrate without any transparency or definitive certainty about the outcome. The availability and accessibility of education is also at risk because more detailed and more volatile and politically more rigorous funding is planned to replace stable and predictable basic funding. The way in which the government proposal cuts the funding for vocational education and training raises problems in terms of the skills needs of the labour market. According to the SAK’s assessment, some of the savings may be made by cutting student places from sectors whose talents could be used on the labour market but whose attractiveness is not attractive to study areas. The attractiveness problems of many sectors have arisen over a longer period of time. However, reductions in student positions as a result of these cuts may further hamper the availability of skilled labour for businesses and jobs in the near future. The proposal estimates that the providers of training will carry out the cuts both by reducing the supply of training and by reducing the cost of training. If the savings were fully realised by reducing the number of students, the reduction would be equivalent to 18,000 student seats. If the organisers of education were to make a total savings of EUR 190 million by reducing the unit cost of studies, the calculated unit price per student would fall by EUR 1270. The surgery leads to layoffs and layoffs. It reduces the accessibility of education and reduces the supply of education. The reduction of the buildings and equipment required for training will take place as part of longer-term plans, which often require new investments. The allocation of the surgery to the municipal funding of the state's share means that it treats individual providers of education differently. The majority lose funding, but some benefit financially. I regret that the Minister is no longer here, but now that the reform of vocational education and training is very much to be desired, there is a particular concern in the field about students with special support, of whom there is little mention in the draft law. Similarly, student guidance is rather weak, and then also apprenticeships have been forgotten for the benefit of the education contract. But I'm sure we'll come back to this later.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u313	Mr President! Education is an important part of the history of Finland, which is 100 years old. Building on education and expertise, we have built a great country in Finland. Equality is the cornerstone of our education. Everyone has the opportunity to study as far as the lavish are sufficient regardless of the postal code or the parent’s wealth. The key question for education policy is not whether to increase or reduce funding, but how to use existing resources in a more efficient way. Given that education is the second largest sector in society, the previous and present government has had to make considerable savings in education due to the difficult economic situation. I am now third-round in Parliament, and the government debt has doubled during this period. I can't think of myself as a very good achievement. So we are simply transferring this financial debt to the next generations. That is why we all need to think about how to allocate savings and financial resources in education as well. These savings are now being implemented in education and training, with structural reforms being carried out. The reform of vocational education and training is real, and soon this period of consultation will end with this reform of vocational education and training, and the organisers of education have had the opportunity to say their words. Vocational education and training aims to increase work-related learning, to increase study time, to increase local education — to improve access to finance. Thus, when savings are made, in addition to these reforms, the duties and standards of municipalities are reduced. The savings in early childhood education, for example, are an example. At the same time, separate and additional funding, such as general education grants and separate funding from the University of Helsinki, will be abandoned. One may say whether these are good or bad, but these have been targeted. Mr President! The additions made by Parliament — EUR 12.5 million — are small sums of money to this whole of the civilised sector, but they will help to put important things in order. Among other things, club activities will receive additional funding of EUR 3 million, an increase of nearly EUR 4 million in early childhood education and basic education, and an increase of EUR 2.8 million in the employment of young people. The increase is EUR 950000 to promote the livelihood of athletes, as well as investing in museum activities and cultural events of regional and local importance. In particular, there will be no reduction in the budget for cultural action. Mr President! One of the Government's key objectives is to accelerate the digital leap and digitalization of education. In order to achieve this, we absolutely must ensure that the resources are in order, but also that the standards are set exceptionally high. The changes in society are fierce, and the demands and capabilities for working life that today's young people are seeking are high. Digitalisation must also extend to everything and everywhere in such a way that new learning tools and capabilities are available all over Finland. We need a whole new kind of pedagogy, and here our trained teachers and their continuing training are the key. If I myself were to go to school as a teacher today, I would definitely need digital education and training for myself when it comes to chalkboarding times and drawing shoots for a while. Information technology tools must be available in different parts of Finland on an equal footing, and these learning environments require a whole new kind of funding – for that too we need state support. Learning materials are being yelled at everywhere. I hope that teachers will also have the opportunity and opportunity to leave time for teaching to make the study material, because it is now really needed in the field.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u314	Mr President! In that previous debate, we talked a lot about regional equality in education and its accessibility to all. It has been one of the greatest achievements of Finnish society in my opinion that we have always been able to trust that education must be equal and at the same level everywhere, and that will continue to be maintained. It is an important and big thing that we can turn these Pisa results back in the right direction — now, apparently, in the last ten years, the change has gradually taken place, and it certainly has a place for every government to look in the mirror — and this issue of regionalism also arises in these matters, because the legacy of the previous government, which has been massively cut off from vocational education, especially in the north and east, is something that should be taken into account, however, in order to continue to secure vocational training throughout. It is therefore extremely important that, while sad cuts are made in vocational education and training, there is still a reform that seeks to reform things. From the centre's point of view, it would have been better if the reform were first put in place and cutbacks only then, but yes, this reform is historic: to digitise, to make the third semester fully available, to make regulation a little easier. Well, to go back to these Pisa results: It must be pointed out that there is a major change in the past, that the central government shares in basic education are not affected. So they're not going to be operated on. We can talk here about a few ten million euros of snow money, but when we talk about hundreds of millions and billions of dollars, the strengthening of local government finances and the non-cutting of central government shares in primary schools is a very big deal and security for our primary school. In any case, primary school is now allowed to develop its activities in peace, and it has also been made one of the top projects of this government, and I do not think it is in any way trivial that EUR 90 million should be put there. But the worrying trend in the Pisa results is certainly something that must also be raised in the Juho Saari Task Force, precisely because why we in certain areas and why there is a difference now between girls and boys and why they have begun to be influenced by socio-economic status, and this absolutely needs to be corrected. Well, it will be unfortunate next year that there will also be cuts in student money. However, if you look at all that student support and the money that is left in the student’s hands, it will grow, even though there will also be a stronger element in the loan. However, the fact that 120,000 students will be covered by better general housing allowance is a significant reform and also a reform that the student organisations themselves have been working on. However, there is still a problem in relation to the livelihood of family students and, in our view, in the centre of town we should be able to raise the guardians already, hopefully, in the mid-term review next spring. After all, this is not a very big issue in financial terms, between 8 and 10 million, but it is very, very important for these family students. It is also important that culture, for example, has been fully protected outside the scope of the cuts. There are a lot of new things related to digitalisation, for example, in all year-round studies. It is very important that the funding of libraries could be secured, for example by raising the level of lending compensation by more than EUR 6 million. And when we look at these new industries, the Ministry of Education and Culture will also play an important role there: finally introducing an audiovisual production incentive of EUR 10 million will certainly also bring to Finland large film productions that we have already seen, for example, in Iceland or Norway and other countries that have introduced this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u315	President! If this brings together today’s debate on different sections — and why not earlier — then at least the following themes have been repeated: Very often, fragile, sprouting signs of growth have been seen. It has been said that our society, or more widely our culture, is living in the midst of a transformation and an unknown future. Thirdly, there is a legitimate call for greater cross-sectoral cooperation in political decision-making and administration. Now that we have discussed the section of OKM, many speeches have raised concerns about the future of one of our national success stories, the comprehensive school. On the one hand, we have also been awakened by the results of the Pisa studies, which, in fact, we were more afraid of when we heard that they will then be published on the Fourth of July. Maybe they were expecting even worse. But in any case the direction is worrying, it cannot be blindfolded. Indeed, reforms, reforms, a new approach to things are needed, especially in times of real change, and teachers, for example, are forced to work in a reality where the message of homes may not be appreciated to the extent that older generations are used to. Children grow up from work in a culture of alienation. On the one hand, we need not only a new kind of pedagogical approach but also measures, efforts to increase individual personal responsibility. This is also extremely important in the working group of Professor Juho Saare. I particularly welcome the additions made by the Committee on Budgets, not only because we are going to be spending next year on the centenary of our independence, but also, and above all, because we are now living in a time of transformation, to find out what historical roots are. Different investments in museums, for example, are good. The museums are not condensed canned cans where the past has been stored and then a hole has been pierced, so it is condensed, but it is the museums that are doing valuable work in which our historical roots are brought to this day in an interesting way. It would be extremely desirable for more and more people to find life’s building materials in museums for their own lives. Knowing historical roots is not only upbuilding but extremely interesting, and it increases not only responsibility but also insight, how seemingly completely different things are connected in a very important way. This is a skill that we politicians need to learn even more deeply.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u316	Mr President! The Nobel Prize-winning professor Bengt Holmström was heard in the Committee on Finance and he considered Finnish education in an interesting way. As regards universities, for example, he said that it is not worth pouring money into old structures, but that reforms are needed. Our university law system was renewed a few years ago. Perhaps it did not in all respects succeed as the objective was, and it may therefore be appropriate for that issue to be reconsidered. Professor Holmström also stated that there is no university as big as the University of Helsinki in the United States and defended the existence of small universities. We also had a hearing with the chairman of the Economic Policy Evaluation Council, Professor Roope Uusitalo of the University of Jyväskylä. I asked him about these university savings for the University of Jyväskylä, and he confirmed what I have already told you here. Professor Uusitalo noted that extensive university cuts have been made, but he also noted that the University of Jyväskylä has carefully reviewed the use of premises, carefully reviewed the procurements and refurbishment, administratively combined various units and thus improved staff utilisation and abandoned a number of projects that have not been considered particularly important or good. Reforms of this type The University of Jyväskylä has achieved the savings that have been made here during the last period and this period, and he stressed that the level and content of education and research need not be interfered with, but are at least at the same level as before. He also noted that after these austerity measures, a bonus for good results could have been paid to the staff. This reflects the fact that the implementation of structural reforms can make a good result, save common funds without losing efficiency and reducing the level of efficiency. There's evidence of that from the University of Jyväskylä in the past. I also encourage this to be examined at the Ministry and elsewhere for other universities and training services. So it is probably suitable for all education and also for the second stage of reform now under way. If well implemented, it can also succeed in raising the level of education. With regard to secondary education, the Social Democrats cut EUR 270 million. Fortunately, the government settled for 190 million, so the situation is under control. Mr President! The central government share of basic municipal services is important for the finances of municipalities, and when this budget, which we are dealing with now, means that next year, according to the calculation, the local government finances will be strengthened by 39 million and this year by 251 million, it can be said that the situation in local government finances will improve compared to the previous parliamentary term. This means that the level of education and group sizes and all training related issues can be improved at municipal level. The strengthening of local government finances also means strengthening democracy and thus serving our administrative system well. Mr President! SAK has proposed raising the compulsory education age. I don't think there's been much discussion here. I would see it worth considering, perhaps not raising the compulsory age, but introducing an obligation to study to young people under the age of 18, whose studies can be encouraged and even required by such an obligation.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u317	Mr President! The debate on this section has already been extensive, but I would like to raise a few more points. Firstly, vocational training. In my opinion, the savings of EUR 190 million that have been allocated to it have been timeless for next year, even though the reform legislation on vocational education and training institutions will not enter into force until the beginning of 2018. However, it is difficult to make these savings in a controlled and strategically sustainable way when the reform guidelines are not yet known. At worst, this means two consecutive structural reforms for vocational education and training institutions, which will only take place within one year of each other. In so doing, savings seriously threaten the quality of vocational education and, as a matter of urgency, cuts can also lead to ill-advised and damaging regional policy solutions. Mr President! The second point I would like to raise is the issue of student money and the livelihood of the families who are studying. Now that we have talked about the poverty of families with children, it is the families who study there that are often on the side of child poverty. They are expected to increase their study debt in full and income support is not easily granted, and even if all student debt is raised, the income level is still very low for families with children. The combination of education and family life must be made more possible by increasing the number of guardians of the study grant. After all, there has been a great deal of discussion about this separation of care, but unfortunately it has still not been achieved, and I must say that, in addition to this, the reform of housing allowance will also weaken the livelihood of many families with children who are studying, which would have made it even more urgent to introduce an increase in the allowance. Trained women living in the capital region will have their first child at the age of 34 on average, i.e. 10 years after the most fertile age, and this is no wonder, because the combination of study and family has indeed been made difficult and difficult from an economic point of view. We therefore raise an objection in connection with the committee's report to the payment of an additional EUR 200 per month of study grant to the guardians of a minor child who are studying. The guardian allowance would be paid to each student who is a child's guardian and who raises the student's allowance. If both parents are students, both parents would receive a guardian’s allowance. The estimated cost on an annual basis would be EUR 20 million, although the overall impact of the allowance on the guardian allowance can be expected to have a positive impact on both the national economy and the sustainability gap.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u318	Mr President! Finland is an isolated country with little natural resources other than wood and water. Our competitiveness must therefore be based on knowledge. This was also understood in the recession of the 1990s when, in the midst of all cuts, investment was made in technology training and research, with known results. Now those lessons have been forgotten, the government cuts off Finland's competitiveness and the future of Finnish children, education. Clearly, it is not easy, at least for a group that has had to resort to the immature deflation mechanism known from the basic period of psychology, a projection where responsibility for too painful a matter for itself is projected at an outside location, this time in the green opposition. However, it does not change the fact that the Greens' alternative budget for education and research amounts to EUR 446 million more than the government's budget proposal. However, it does not alter the fact that the responsibility for the cuts to education and students lies before the Government, even before the Council of State, in the mirror of the delegation, in the presence of the two key ministries, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education. And you didn't really imagine in the government that no one would notice how you cut 190 million in vocational education by trickling money between the state and municipalities, by reducing the number of students subject to permits by 12.5%, and by transferring the resulting EUR 190 million to the savings of municipalities, and by increasing the central government share percentage accordingly. The impact on central government finances and the impact on public finances are two different things if you did not happen to know it in government. This shadow budget for the Greens would also eliminate the cuts of EUR 209 million in training imposed on the municipalities of Sipilä. In other words, the Greens would invest EUR 655 million more in education than the Sipilä Government. Mr President! Indeed, the latest results of the Pisa study provide worrying information on the state of learning in mathematics and science in Finnish schools. Especially for boys, the level of competence has fallen from before. I have to ask you this. What's changed? Why are mathematics and science no longer as interesting as before, since the laws of mathematics and science have not become any more difficult? In recent years, we have been concerned about handicrafts, art materials, the number of hours of religion, physical activity — on the other hand, there has not been a similar debate on mathematics and science, although they are indeed the basis of the competitiveness of the Finnish export industry. Our exports consist mainly of products from the technology industry, production planning, and production planning is carried out by technicians whose expertise is based on mathematics and science. In the future, there will be fewer and fewer of these experts in mathematics and science in Finland. For example, the number of long-term mathematics writers has been falling for a long time, and recent Pisa results show that mathematics is already beginning to detoxify at primary school. It would be high time to start worrying about mathematics and science, and, as I said in the debate, should the principle of 'hours of mathematics per day be taken as a common principle'? Mr President! Finland will rise or fall on its expertise. Still, the government is cutting student support, apparently thinking that hunger motivates students to take a more diligent exam. In practice, the surgery of the student allowance will result in children of low-income parents less and less dare to study, take up debt. The growing share of the nation's knowledge potential remains untapped. Such a small nation cannot afford to waste any talented young people willing to study just because his parents cannot afford to support his studies financially. Well, underprivileged students are known to be cheap temporary workers, of which there is a notorious shortage in this country, and there is no burden of union membership either. Graduation — it’s not that busy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u319	Mr President! Many times, when this debate on education policy takes place in this Chamber, it seems that this ratio is sometimes a little large in terms of these government cuts. Even at the moment, this section of the Ministry of Education and Culture presents EUR 6.7 billion in its entirety, and it is admittedly less than the budget for this year, but it is not through these cuts that our education system is crumbling or taking the bottom off. The previous speaker, Mr Plant, referred on several occasions to members of parliament from the United States and to the debates or speeches we have had in relation to these appropriations for education, but apparently he forgot to mention that the Greens' alternative budget also includes cuts in education and training — if I do not recall quite correctly, more than EUR 100 million in the Greens’ option — and, for example, the return of the university index does not appear to be in the alternative budget, but that is that. We have also had a lot of discussions in that committee, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, about these major reforms in the administrative sector, of which I am sure the most important is this big reform of vocational education and training, its legislation and also the savings in vocational education and training for next year. I quite agree that this timetable for the implementation of these savings has been particularly challenging and problematic, and this criticism is quite reasonable and well-deserved in the direction of the government, but at the same time it must be borne in mind that, with regard to this reform itself, this reform, the reform itself itself, we have progressed in very good cooperation and in agreement with the providers of vocational education and training. The reform and amendments to this Student Aid Act have also given rise to some debate. This surgery is indisputable, but a little less attention has been given to many good things that are also being corrected here, which students have long been hoping for. For example, the excessive interest rate on repayments will be moderated and the impact of parental income will be eliminated and so on. It is this move towards general housing support, which I myself have dealt with on behalf of both the Committee on Culture and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and it is well aware of the good effects that this reform and change will have, and also the challenges. This situation of family members is well known and has also been expressed by the committees. I would also like to highlight the challenge of defining this concept of household, which we still have to resolve. However, much more is being done and developed, and this education policy should not just revolve around what is being cut out and who cuts the most or in what way, but we should now also focus on using this EUR 6.7 billion in this section in the best possible and sensible way, so that it responds to today's needs and supports our education, education and training, but also sports, culture, youth, students and so on. Comprehensive school is currently undergoing major reform. The reduction in the fees for early childhood education in the lowest income categories has been a very positive thing — I am sure we all agree on that. At the end of the day, I would like to raise perhaps the issue of increases in the training of immigrants and asylum seekers in relation to basic education and preparatory education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u320	Mr President! When dealing with budgets, the focus is often on cuts and how the budget differs from that of the previous government. I myself would prefer to focus now on the new issues that are being invested in, and on how the government seeks to reform education and culture, in particular, in the model that we have, and would continue to have, the opportunity to maintain the best school system in the world. The downward trend of the Pisa results, although not steep, is of course serious and must be taken into account. The budget provides much good for the administration of the Ministry of Education and Culture. Among other things, the planned increases in day care fees will be cancelled, the aid will be granted to the audiovisual production market, the exercise of schoolchildren will be increased, the grant will be increased for sportsmen and women as well as the provision of loan compensation to the Nordic level. An hour of physical activity per day is on track and EUR 7 million of key project funding will be used for the project in 2017. Over the past year, the number of comprehensive schools considered to be mobile schools has increased. There are now 76 per cent of students in the field, and during the next year, the trials of moving school days will be extended to upper secondary schools and vocational schools across Finland. These investments are important, as the physical condition of children and young people is constantly deteriorating, as new sports trials have shown. It was particularly alarming a few days ago when they said that schoolchildren could no longer sit up straight. For a child, it is important that he has something meaningful to do besides school. Often meaningful doing is found with hobbies. However, not all children have a hobby. This may be due, for example, to the small income of the family, when it often costs a lot. Guaranteeing one hobby for a child would be an excellent and profitable initiative. All children should have the opportunity to engage in activities regardless of their family’s wealth. Increasing opportunities for hobbies would prevent exclusion and contribute to physical and mental well-being. I therefore hope that progress can be made in the near future. Peace in school is essential for the learning of pupils. In addition to pupils, promoting school peace is the responsibility of school teachers and the principal. It is therefore important that the decision-making powers of the principal and the teachers in relation to the pupils should be in order. For example, detention can now only be given by the student’s own teacher, not by the principal or by other school teachers. I hope that this kind of legislation will be rectified as a matter of urgency. One of the major developments, especially in vocational education and training, is the mismatch between education and the labour market. Each year, hundreds of students who have little access to equivalent jobs are graduating. It would therefore be important for educational institutions in the future to relate the number of admissions to training lines to the need for the labour market. This would benefit both students and society as a whole. Of course, it is difficult to predict the future labour market, but the forecasts of the National Education Evaluation Centre, for example, can be followed up more closely. It is also particularly important in education to ensure the availability of domestic, skilled labour as new jobs open up, such as the New Town Car Factory and the Turku and Rauma shipyards. The unprejudiced reform of the government is also reflected in the promise that the regional language experiment will be carried out in accordance with Parliament's accepted commitment. Freedom of choice for language learning would provide schoolchildren with more time and motivation to study world languages, such as Chinese or Spanish. A wide range of language skills would be beneficial in working life and, in particular, domestic export markets would benefit from language know-how. In addition, good study and job opportunities would be offered to big world language speakers. The Minister promised that the regional language experiment would take place next year. The experiment must be sufficiently extensive, a couple of municipalities are not enough to cover the experiment. Finally, I would also like to raise a few other points. The importance of access and suitability tests, especially in the health sector: Mr Silja Paavola, Chairman of SuPeri, has also expressed concern that students who are not necessarily suitable for the field, for example, are seeking to be a nearby nurse. For students, the choice of the wrong field is also a disadvantage. I also hope that more attention will be paid to meeting the patient, the client, in medical training. Recently
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u321	Honored Speaker! Today we have been talking a long way about the cuts made by the government and also about some reforms. However, there has been a great deal of constructive talk from the opposition about the need to move forward, and many people understand that this economic situation cannot be kept in the old one. This whole starting point must be borne in mind by the fact that we, after all, have a 10% gap in this 55 billion budget and we take its 10% debt, 5.5 billion. Perhaps it can still change, especially upwards, and this reflects how difficult Finland is in the economic situation at the moment. And in the sense that this line of cuts had to be made, which would have been done by the opposition too, as their alternative budgets showed — even before the parliamentary elections — it was evident from their budgets — that we would all be in the same situation. Now I would like to highlight this aspect when new things need to be done, how we can maintain high-quality early childhood education, high-quality basic education and good secondary vocational education despite the tight economic situation. I personally welcome the Minister's courage to undertake reforms, such as this reform of secondary education, vocational school reform. I look forward to it myself very much. We must remember the starting point, which we heard again today in Mr Lindström's speech when he said that the situation of the unemployed was 322,900 in October. This was at the end of October. However, it is 8,000 fewer than in the corresponding period last year, but it is not a cause for joy because 22,000 unemployed people have been unemployed for over a year and 41,000 unemployed people are under 25 years of age. I would like to say a few words in particular about these unemployed people under the age of 25. After all, we lose about 15 percent of each school age group without secondary education and education. So many can begin their education, but much of them cannot find their own, what or how they would like to study. And I personally think it is very important that this government has the courage to try new things. One new point is this observation made by the Committee on Finance — when experts were consulted in the Section for Education and Science — that there are many other ways to train than sitting on the school bench. Among other things, we received a statement from the Foundation and heard from Samaria Association, which has decades of experience in how thousands of young people have already been trained through part-graduate training and have gained a profession and a job. And these practices, such as Light Training, need strengthening and need more place in Finland. To this end, the Committee on Finance has allocated EUR 2650000 to this WorkPolku project, a pilot project. The purpose of its WorkPolku project, a pilot project, is precisely to support these people who fall out of, or go to, vocational school because they need much more than just student support. They need support for living, leisure and a wide range of other relationships, even the use of drugs. Unfortunately, in those situations, no one’s schooling will succeed, at least with a three - year plan. If we can, in a part-time degree, train part of a car technician’s degree or a tinsmith’s degree, even if only do roof metalsmith work, then we can create motivation for young people to be able to go through that shorter training line until the end of the shorter training cycle. Here, when you add your collaboration with companies and take this kind of master—a race-like approach, then you get great results. And I personally expect much from the Ministry of Education and Culture that they will be able to carry out this pilot project, because the Committee on Finance has paid particular attention, as this opinion says, that when these results are obtained, they will be distributed throughout the country if they are good results. If we are able to train young people in the form of part-time qualifications up to 40% cheaper than in our existing vocational training, then of course it must be taken seriously, especially in this economic situation, even though this is not even an economic issue. This is above all a question of the lives and future of young people. We cannot assume that today everyone wants to sit on the school bench for three years and learn to do their job there. Mr President! Looks like we're running out of time. Very soon before the club hits the table, I would also like to mention that in this good draft budget, where the Committee on Budgets allocated 12 million dollars for various additional projects, it is above all symbolically important. It will help us to encourage by investing in early childhood education, education and training through entirely new means.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u322	Mr President! Education is the way we create faith in the future for young people and children. If a schoolboy comes to school, does he feel that it is he who has been expected there today and has his own place? Is his learning sufficiently supported, and does he feel that he has been accepted in the group? These are the things the teacher has to ensure. But only if the teacher has enough tools will he be able to implement a safe learning environment. Representative Elomaa made an excellent point about these shortcomings earlier, such as the fact that the principal has no right to give detention, only the student’s own teacher does. The second point is that detention should be made part of compulsory education, because at the moment it is only good people who sit in detention and those who do not want to do so will not do it. Furthermore, we must now at last get rid of the thinking that bullying on the way to school should not be interfered with. The headmaster of Sylä school, Andersson, was missing, and he received a note when he should have received the prize. This is the right direction, and we will return to this peace package in the spring. It is in the interests of all of us to be able to support the growth and development of every young and every child in such a way that the teacher has that authority. Moreover, this language experiment, which is about to take place, is very important. We have long lived in such rigid thinking that every Finn must learn two marginal languages. It is pointless to think that, in the context of human time and learning ability, we could study all possible languages. We must be able to choose from there, and at least I myself would feel that the German, Spanish or Russian language is more necessary if we are thinking of global trade than Swedish. I was contacted by a teacher and said, well, how about this forced English? I said that we do not have such a thing as compulsory English, that only Finnish and Swedish are compulsory, and then English is optional and then some student can take over German. And yet there would be more justification for English. If we have to study two specific languages in a compulsory way, then there are more powerful arguments for English than for Swedish. I am raising one detalji out of this budget book because this is what we discussed in the Committee on Culture. This is the Accessibility Directive that was adopted in the EU Parliament in October. Its aim is to enable disabled people to work on an equal footing with others online. I personally feel that this is an extremely important issue. You gotta make sure no one who's visually impaired stays out of service. Our goal must be to bring new customers into the library services of the visually impaired. We need to take care of special education, we need to take care of basic education, and we need to take care of universities, and this impact assessment, which we now have as a goal, is extremely important. There is no reason why Sweden or Denmark are so ahead of us in this university comparison. We will be able to achieve much more when we invest in it, and I feel that the key is the combination of business and education. It is what brings Finland to a growth career and guarantees Finland a growth story.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u323	Mr President! The section of the Ministry of Education and Culture under discussion is probably one of the most important, if not the most important, for Finland’s future. Finland will celebrate its 100-year independence next year, and this money, which is now being decided by the Ministry of Education and Culture, will play a very important role in this year, the centenary of independence. At the end of the 19th century, the literacy rate in Finland was nearly 100 per cent. Of course, not everyone was very good at reading, but the literacy was there, and it created the basis of civilisation and the welfare of the Finnish people, which today we can enjoy each one of our own. In any case, we have always had equality as the cornerstone of education. Every Finn has the opportunity to study as far as the commons are sufficient, whether he lives in or somewhere in the northernmost Finland or in southern Finland. In other words, the Finnish idea that all children are guaranteed equal access to a doctoral degree or to any educational profession is guaranteed free of charge. We are proud of this. It is an exceptionally fine system throughout the world, and we must all stick to this by all means at our disposal. Although the economy is tight, this fundamental principle must by no means be compromised. At the moment, we are still living in Finland following the economic crisis that began in October 2008. The economy has been turned to the side of the plus by tough and determined decisions. The light is clearly visible at the end of the tunnel, and it is not the lights of the incoming train, which are visible from it, but the economy is clearly growing and we are clearly freed from the recession, just like Erkki, President of the Bank of Finland. Mr Liikanen said last week. In any case, the education system must also change. It must adapt both to the economy and also to time. The fact that we are going to have to make cuts in this budget is true, but we must relate the amount of these cuts to the amount of money that is being spent on civilisation. This state budget will give EUR 6.9 billion to the Ministry of Education and Culture's main category next year, and when the money from the municipalities is added, we will reach a total of more than EUR 12 billion, which is an enormous amount of training for Finnish children, young people and adults in this country. A good level of education guarantees that the standard of living will also be maintained. Now that we are talking about the cuts that the government has had to make, it is always worth the opposition to relate them to the total amount that this country is still investing in civilisation. It is important, of course, for education to be developed and for education to be developed by all means available. Sometimes you have to cut, but the criticism of the cuts should be in some measure that you do not just start talking about spots and dots and seeing the whole. In this country, training is being organised and promoted through various key projects. I attach great importance to them so that we can react at this time. A couple of points about college money. It is important that the student allowance system in this country remains, and the fact that student money is now being slightly reduced is of course a factor due to the size of central government finances, but it must also be taken into account that this state budget not only takes but also gives. Now we are moving towards general housing allowance, which offers the genuine possibility that those students who genuinely need housing support will receive that support. For those who have a little more own resources or family funds available, this reform is not as good as for those who really need support. But this is a socially justifiable direction, and that is the direction we must continue to take. You have to be free of charge to study, and the benefits must be directed to where the most urgent need is. When we look at the integration of our future students into the world of work, I very much hope that, both this year and the coming year, we will continue to develop a genuine link between them and working life during their studies. The training of theoretical knowledge is also a good thing, but it is the most important thing to get to work. Finally, Mr President, one last comment on the Pisa studies. Finland has always done very well there. The first signs that we are in a slight decline clearly exist and must be observed and reacted to. What, in my opinion, is lacking in the school world and in education, especially in the lower classes of schools today, and generally in the study period, is discipline. Discipline must be brought back to schools and that mutual respect is the thing that is genuinely studied and taught there. It can't be that the school world is so noisy and noisy.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u324	Mr President! The state finances situation remains difficult: expenditure exceeds revenue by more than 10%, central government debt increases. Some comfort and relief in this situation comes from the fact that interest rates are at a low level. The increase in borrowing does not dramatically increase the cost of debt management in these circumstances. When you see signs of economic growth on a magnifying glass, you can see that the situation could be worse. However, in this general economic situation, it is clear that concern for the future is justified. Despite its strong promises, the government has not been able, nor has it, to say the least, to slow down debt. How far can we go along this road? When you ask this question, there is a viewing distance, one end of which is our children and their children. The most impressive rhetoric here is the speeches that state that when we take on more debt from our children. We do not know if the children who once inherit the land and its debts are happy. The savings decisions concerning the main category of the Ministry of Education and Culture have also been justified with serious care as described above. Although the concern is serious, it is still legitimate to look at it from another perspective. The resources taken into the main category of the Ministry of Education and Culture are the most clear future resources. These cuts, over 3 billion in the parliamentary term, are cuts from the future of our children and young people. A good example of this is the change in the structure of student support. In the future, the share of student loans in student support will be emphasised when the level of student money collapses. The government’s savings decisions, which were to prevent the debt burden from being borne by our children, force the student to resort to student loans. It does not appear to be a coherent future policy. The student loan focus of student support increases working time during study and slows down graduation for those who hesitate to borrow because of precarious employment prospects. The future of society will be built in the way in which children are created a supportive foothold from which to push forward in life. According to OECD calculations, an investment of EUR 1 in early childhood education will generate EUR 7 for society. Skillful individual support for the child in early childhood education improves his or her success in school and in the way of learning. Good provisions in childhood help to improve education and longer working lives. Good early childhood education is able to remove obstacles to the child’s positive development — good and authentic life in a society that is becoming more complex. Savings in early childhood education jeopardise the success of this vital activity for the future of society. The latest Pisa results are worrying when it comes to both regional differences and differences between girls and boys. Reductions in early childhood education are likely to increase differences between municipalities and regions in the care and education of children. The effect will be the opposite of what should be. Under the Socialist option, the restriction of subjective early childhood education rights would be waived. We wouldn't go up early education groups.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u325	Mr President! We are talking about the results of Pisa, we have been discussing the results on several occasions here too. Equality is fragmented, although Finland is still one of the leading countries in education. What worries me is that there are ever greater differences in skills between girls and boys. The impact of socio-economic background on learning outcomes has also increased slightly. For the first time, however, the learning gap between regions and rural and urban schools is significant. Approximately half of the comprehensive schools in Finland have been abolished since 90, while the number of pupils has decreased by only 9 per cent. The savings have been almost missed due to the increased costs of school transport, student care, social security and rehabilitation. Access to basic education has been reduced particularly and particularly strongly by children in rural areas. Is this one of the reasons for the decline in learning outcomes among some children and young people? How do you get out of trouble? "Training will be created when the school conditions are favourable andthe school The student in education is energetic, devoted, persistent in adversity and proud of his school. He feels that learning is meaningful, challenging and inspiring." This is how well Matti Rimpelä filmed the health care of children in Parliament in November specifically about positive, motivated learning. The development of comprehensive school is one of the top projects of the Sipilä Government, and approximately EUR 90 million will be invested in it during the Government term. But then I have to say a few words about children and young people who need special support: Mental health and substance abuse services are still fragmented in Finland. It makes it difficult to get treatment and complete treatment in these students. In many cases, employment or study should be preceded by a rehabilitation phase, which varies from months to even several years. Increasing resources for early support for children and families and for the well-being of young people and students is extremely worthwhile, as we all know. We'll get the money back multiples. The threshold for access to treatment must be lowered in health care by developing low-threshold services between basic and special care. Indeed, young people's problems must be caught up in the development of open services. Student care in schools should not be left as a separate organisation from the rest of the care chain, but should be integrated into the graduated service chain. There are also many young people in our institutions in Finland, and I think that we need to improve the opportunities for young people to have access to family care when their parents are unable to take care of them. In all of this, the Government aims to develop services for children and families in Lapland, by reforming social and health services and also by investing in the development of family care. Last season, a working group in the centre, which I chaired, proposed that the multi-professional services of the low threshold should be where young people are, in other words, in primary school. In some localities, student care groups have already been supplemented by a psychiatric nurse. Rapid tackling of problems also contributes to the peace of work in schools and supports the ability of teachers and students to cope. Many young people are united by bullying at school, learning difficulties and low trust in other people. In addition, many have untreated traumas. So-called normal school or normal services do not work for them. It is a waste of common resources to try to strengthen those policies which, in principle, are part of the problem rather than the solution for many young people. In other words, new forms of professionalism and structures supporting its policies are urgently needed, and mandatory legislation is also needed to prevent bullying at school and the possibility of after-care for young people who are being bullied.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u326	Mr President! Much has been said here today about education and education, and this is good. These are the cornerstones of 100-year-old Finland, and this will continue to be the case. All are still offered free education. We will continue to have the most generous student support in the world. In other words, the level of student support will rise from around 900 to 1100 euros, and in addition, students will move to the general housing allowance, as the student organisations have hoped, and this will raise the income of low-income students during their studies. This is very important because it is precisely in higher education regions that there has been a high level of rent, and the current student aid has in no way been sufficient to cover this rent, but other income has since been used to cover the rent costs. Now, with this general housing allowance, this will be made easier. Of course, there are losers in this change. They are couples whose combined income is so high that they do not have access to this current housing allowance and general housing allowance to such an extent. And that is how it is that, when we distribute these state aids, it is good for social justice that these funds and subsidies are allocated to those who most need it. Otherwise, I could say about these savings in education and training, especially when it comes to this vocational education and training, that there will be cuts, albeit smaller than those planned during the last term of the government, but what is particularly important there is the amount of funding needed for education when studies are first and foremost transferred to jobs in the future. This is also what students need and wish for. In particular, employers have hoped that these future qualifications and training would be more in line with the need for working life,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u327	Mr President! As a new Member of Parliament, it has been interesting to listen to this debate, and the impression has been expressed that there is, however, a general perception in Parliament that education for a small country is a very important issue. Then, on the other hand, it is a matter of concern that these cuts to education and research and science are so great, so it certainly gives rise to a very contradictory feeling that it is important or is it not important? At the same time, there has been talk of restructuring education, and I too am in favour of a controlled restructuring of education. Unfortunately, I do not see such a controlled restructuring in this government. In my opinion, Mr Kankaanniemi described very well this situation at the University of Jyväskylä, where there has been an attitude towards these reductions in funds. The same is true in my hometown of Espoo for Aalto University. They have recognized that these cuts are large, affect their activities a great deal, but at the same time they have taken action in such a way that they have been prepared to take off the slack and to intensify and change their own activities, so that the level of education at school itself is not reduced. These government savings on vocational education and training, EUR 190 million, are targeted at young people who are looking for a place in this life. This means about a 12% reduction in the number of places to study. At least the last elections left me with the impression that all the parties were prepared to take the initiative that vocational training would find a place and a path in this country so that all the young people could have a chance. That's how I understood it. Now here we are going in a completely different direction. Here Mr Räsänen said well to me, as many other Members have said here, that these reductions and these changes are now being made at a rather special time, that the reductions will be carried out first and then a reform will be carried out in 2018. This seems to be taking place in two stages, as it were. Step 1 is this 190 million reduction and phase 2 is then this reform, which once again changes things and once again seeks savings. I hope this will not happen. I hope that reform will also bring resources and not just always mean that when reform is carried out, it will be cut. Thank you very much for the fact that the committee's report has rightly seen the state of youth activity in Finland at the moment and has also seen that NGOs, especially youth workers' organisations, are the ones who carry out this work in the best way and cost-effective way. So the report has said that we are taking money from gambling, that we are clearly transferring money from it to the development and improvement of youth work by non-governmental organisations, and that they are genuinely given the opportunity to do that work. In particular, funds have been allocated to the youth and education activities of the Friends of Sobriety. I myself remember a time of youth where sobriety was a virtue. It was spoken of in a way that evoked respect when someone announced that he was sober. Mr President! With these ideas I am familiar with this, and perhaps there is something else I will say when I listen to the wise speeches made by your fellow Members.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u328	Mr President! I would like to draw attention to the state funding for the social functions of the Evangelical Lutheran Church. From the beginning of this year, the system of compensation for the costs of church social duties was reformed as a result of the transition from the corporate tax system to the statutory grant. According to that law, the amount of funding would be increased annually in line with the change in the general price level in accordance with the Consumer Price Index. Well, now, however, this 2017 budget has not taken account of the index increase, and our parliamentary group considers this to be a wrong and fundamental solution, and that is why we are proposing that an index increase be made in full. The financing of the church’s social tasks is based on the legal tasks of burial, population records and maintenance of buildings of cultural historical value and movables, and costs the church an average of EUR 146 million a year. Even the current level of state aid does not cover all the costs of statutory tasks, as does the corporate tax share, but if the state still appreciates the independence of the church, it must cover the costs of statutory duties. The abolition of index increases means that an increasing proportion of the duties assigned to the church by law are paid by the church tax revenue, that is, by members of the church also pay the costs of non-church citizens. That is why we are proposing an increase in the budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u329	Mr President! When, in this debate, Mr Siré repeated the argument often reiterated by the representatives of the Group of the European People's Party that even the Greens' alternative budget would cut training, so that now the Minutes of this debate could be corrected, I would say that the Greens' alternative budget will put about EUR 500 million more in education and research than the government's budget proposal. Of this, approximately EUR 200 million is compensation for the cuts made to this year's budget last year and about EUR 300 million is compensation for the cuts proposed by the government for next year's budget. This compensation for the cuts made last year and implemented this year is presented in the green alternative budget to compensate, above all, for cutting the so-called overcompensation of kilometric compensation, i.e. by cutting the fact that when the number of these reimbursed kilometres per year exceeds a certain limit, then some of them will start to generate income for the recipient and will no longer be reimbursed for the actual costs. Instead of the 300 million training cuts proposed in this budget, we would remove the reduced tax rate on diesel or we would take the money from the reduced tax rate on diesel and the reduced tax rate on machinery — EUR 210 million — on peat and EUR 19 million from the reduced tax on electricity from mines and EUR 43 million from emissions trading in industry, i.e. approximately EUR 300 million.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u330	Mr President! Finland has one of the best and most equal education systems in the world, and a large amount of funding will also be allocated for the coming year, which is, of course, a good and worthwhile thing. Now, however, the opposition is accused of cutting these expenses by the government. Cutting is in itself very relative because, for example, in the 2014 financial statements, which are the acts of the previous government, the total amount of the Ministry of Education and Culture was smaller than at present, meaning that expenditure has increased in a certain way. I therefore believe that we should speak honestly when we talk about these matters. Let us not move on here to the post-truth period. After all, universities themselves are not being cut, but their costs are only being proportionate to the change in GDP. Moreover, a reduction in expenditure does not always mean a deterioration in the quality of service. I therefore encourage universities to take the lead in business life, for example. If the company runs out of money, it will be adapted to the money: it is not a taxpayer and a taxpayer's thorn to cover expenditure, but the management must take the matter in hand and make it work and it is worth it. This is what companies in Finland have done, why would the management of universities be less qualified?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u331	Mr President! Still for those Pisa results. Indeed, now that we all know that the measurement was made in 2015, we may have to look at what happened 10 or 15 years earlier. This disparate development has been visible for a long time, in other words, because of its background, the population is divided in a number of different ways: it is divided regionally, it is divided according to wealth or it is divided according to a number of other reasons. I curiously examined the background to the Pisa results, and there are many interesting things there. One is, for example, the time spent at home on schoolwork. After all, this time has collapsed in Finland rather than in the past and in comparison with other countries. I myself wonder whether the quality of the tasks at home has also changed so that they are now more mechanical and not used in such a way as to carry out extensive tasks. Another thing that has changed in Finland is that reading has gone down once and for all: it is no longer reading as it was in the good old days. Of course, this affects the fact that the vocabulary is impoverished and it is no longer so easy to understand what it is reading. It is very good that the Minister raised the multi-literacy project which aims to push it forward. But then one factor is also that the physical condition has deteriorated. It has now been answered by this hour exercise per day project, but it is sad if all matters are transferred to the school when responsibility should be taken at home and the individual himself should take responsibility for his or her own actions. There was also the idea that this is a matter for poor municipalities, but why do girls get a good result, a weaker result for boys? So it can't be just about the resources of the municipality. I think it is essential how resources are used — using them as much as possible
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u332	Mr President! Under this administrative sector, early childhood education will be a major source of joy, and next year, for example, there will be a reduction in early childhood education contributions for low incomes. It is quite clear that we should get rid of these payments as much as possible anyway, but this trend is already good that for those on low incomes they are either absent altogether or have fallen clearly now on the basis of the decisions of this government. In addition, I welcome the investment in the training of kindergarten teachers. It is very important that there are skilled people there to raise and care for our children. They're doing a really important job. Secondly, I would like to highlight the excellent contribution made by the Committee on Finance to physical activity and, in particular, to the socio-economic position of athletes. This small amount of money, or less than EUR 1 million, will accomplish a great deal. It will be possible to increase the grants for athletes, the support of the Foundation for the Promotion of Sports, which will enable both studies and sport to be made possible by these people who intend to be top athletes or who are already top athletes. In addition, there will be more expert support for sports academys. — Small sums of money but significant contributions from the point of view of top athletes, thank you for that. That was an excellent speech from Mrs Parviainen just now. I certainly agree with him on these contributions to reading, they are very welcome. If you think that a teenager who read books has a vocabulary of 70,000 words and books in an unread vocabulary of only 15,000 words,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u333	Mr President! Much has been said here today about the cuts in education, the cuts in previous parliamentary periods and this parliamentary term. It is truly regrettable that these cuts have had to be made on a parliamentary basis. During the last parliamentary term, the central government share of funding for basic education was subjected to major cuts, which municipalities were unable to compensate for in many respects. There are no similar cuts in basic education during this parliamentary term, but they unfortunately have to be targeted at other sectors of education. As Mr Hoskonen described well earlier here, we must remember that, although we have had to cut education, we are still investing very much, around EUR 12 billion, in education and knowledge and its development, even on a Western scale. Mr President! Another issue that has been much discussed here today is the results of Pisa studies on the learning of children and the results of these international comparisons of Finnish children. These recent Pisa results have been tested in April 2015, so it has to be said that they have not been influenced by the actions or omissions of this government. Although we are still at a very high international level in the Pisa results, the decline that has been going on for some time must be noted. Perhaps a little comfort to the results can be found in the fact that the latest Pisa results have not been influenced by the new curricula recently introduced. Now we need to be awake and sensitive to the possible changes in the new curricula. They must be awake in terms of staff, other resources, educational content and the interaction between schools and home.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u334	Mr. Speaker! The central government budget amounts to 55.5 billion in total, of which 10 per cent is well covered by debt. Unfortunately, this is still happening. Of course, it is important that this budget strengthens the finances of municipalities, so that municipalities do not have to take the same amount of debt as in the last period, when funding was cut quite heavily from the municipalities. This was then reflected in all kinds of negative developments, including in the field of education, i.e. early childhood education and basic education, which are the responsibility of municipalities to operate and maintain. When the total of the Ministry of Education and Culture’s section totals 6.7 billion, it is clear that in such a large section it will also be necessary to look for the places where this huge indebtedness gap is being filled. That is what the previous government did, and that is what the government is doing now, and I think it is responsible that this should be done and not left with debt to current students, children, young people. It is much more valuable to create jobs, i.e. to act in central government and national economies in such a way as to create genuine, good jobs, to which young people can then move after studying, than to simply look at the figures in a monotonous way. Unfortunately, there will be cuts, but indeed, as I said, this aspect of education and education, early childhood education and basic education, is a function of the municipalities, and now that the finances of the municipalities are being strengthened, the municipalities will have the opportunity to secure these services.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u335	Mr President! Indeed, I would like to express my thanks to the Committee on Budgets for following up the wishes expressed by the Committee on Education and Science and of course by the entire Committee on Finance in its own budget opinion on these increases in appropriations, for example for the sport mentioned above and for the hobbies of children. These are very important issues and good targeting. Indeed, this reform of vocational education and training, which will undoubtedly be key next year and, in fact, the biggest reform of education policy in this country during the whole parliamentary term, and which will have the greatest impact both on young people's participation and skills in working life and on the working conditions of the business community in different parts of the country, is something which is quite extraordinary in view of this debate. I understand that these difficult cuts have emerged in the debate, but much is to be done within the framework of this reform, and next year will be a very important time. I think it is important now that, when we look at vocational education and training in general, we should see vocational education and training in the second stage as part of our entire education system and not, despite the fact that we are now reforming only one part of education, focusing on it, but seeing the path of education from primary to secondary education to vocational and vocational higher education. In this respect, it is very good that the Minister for Education and Culture has now set up a working group to consider the feasibility of continuing vocational education and training in higher education. It is very important that this training path approach should not be forgotten either in the field of vocational education and training.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u336	Mr President! Three different Sami languages are spoken in Finland. These are all endangered. Of these, the speakers of the northern Sámi language are a four-digit number, but there are only a few hundred people who know the language of both the kolta and the Inari Sámi language. A significant number of young people in Sámi live outside the Sámi region. At the moment, there is a fairly moderate definition of money to allow young people in the Sami regions to study their native language or the Sámi language as a second language, that quite moderately the matter is moving forward. In addition, the Sámi Chambers and the Sámi Region Training Centre have received money to prepare the language teaching activities to be conducted through this kind of website. Now it would be necessary to have the resources to organise this Sámi language teaching much more throughout Finland. First of all, there has already been a small amount of funding for the activities of language centres, i.e. under-school-age children. Thank you for getting the money for them last year and the year before last, and now we are getting some. There is definitely a need for more of this money in order to increase the number of Sámi language experts. But then this school-age Sámi language lesson. Outside the Sámi area, it may be just a few hours a week, and that too is often a very short lesson. Sámi children are scattered all over Finland, and their language teaching should be given a great deal of attention that we do not lose this rich culture in Finland, which we have. To the extent of the death of the tongue, that the tongue of the Inarisa was about to die. Only two families spoke that language at the turn of the '70s and '80s in that way. How little was it that it too was lost, that the same thing might have happened, as in the language of my ancestors the Kemin Lapps, that the language was lost. Now that we have considered the question of language resuscitation in our area, the dead language can no longer be made alive, but what has been the subject of language research has been found to have been very close, as a language belonging to the same dialect group, the language of inarisam. And now, for example, my own son would have wanted that 8. In the Svukoski class would start studying the language of Inarisaari, that is, the language of his great-grandmother and great-grandfather, but that teaching was not achieved in Savukoski just because it was not part of the current teaching pattern or teaching funding or activities. Now that the educational centre of the Sami region has access to material for this training, we should really invest in it and work to get the education of the Sami language: mainly through the Internet, then we need someone from our own school to support it or this kind of person to help it learn through the Internet so that we can study the Sami language. When we have this kind of rich and awesome culture, so promote and help it, not let it die. In addition, adult Sámi language training. Today, a lot of people would like to start studying the Sámi language as an adult. When I was in Sodankylä in the '80s in middle school, there were only two of us who wanted to start studying the Sámi language then. Well, I'm not from the Sámi-speaking area, but I would have liked to have started studying, but the Sodankylä group was not able to achieve that at the time, because in the 80s it was not fashionable to study the Sámi language, certainly not. It is now annoying afterwards, and there are many young people of that time who we would now like to start studying the Sámi language. This would be possible through new methods, systems, as long as we also arrange for adults to study in the whole country — well, of course, especially in the old Kemi Lapland area, that we could study that language of the Inarisámi or, if necessary, other Sami languages. So this is what we're going to do. Let's be proud of our own, living culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u337	Mr President! To these good things, in this proposal, it has been decided to add EUR 3 million to club activities here in the committee's proposal and EUR 2 million to the good completion of early childhood education, i.e. the implementation of its programme. There are also funds for helping Christian schools and for the clubwork they do. I would like to return to this college education and research budget, which has now been calculated for seven years in a row. That is exactly the time that has gone down economically. Would it be too much to ask if next year, at the time of the 2018 budget, we would start this sort of 7 fat years? Then it is worrying that the support of theatres and orchestras will also fall by 2.6 million in this proposal. Fortunately, however, the committee adds a little more money, that is, about half a million. I think it is important to say this in committee: 'The Committee also believes that it is appropriate to assess the possibilities of providing employment-based subsidies to art and culture for the undivided profits of Veikkaus.' Indeed, we must ensure that this good idea is realised and that this very hard-working sector, these theatres and small orchestras receive the money that they undoubtedly deserve and produce huge new talent.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u338	Mr President! In the past, many, such as Mr Huhtasaari, spoke of free language choice and said that it was in favour. It is also a question of money in the sense that huge sums of money are being spent in Finland to study this so-called forced Swedish. These resources are out of learning a real world language that could really benefit the world or the world of work. In other words, I think that any experiment in order to move towards a free choice of languages is to be welcomed. There is much talk of this poor school performance for boys and men and we are all very concerned about it together. However, there seems to be a total lack of concreteness in these speeches to correct this issue. I believe that we must first recognise the fact that something in the infrastructure of our school system is now only discriminating against the male gender. Something in there does that boys are not motivated to study and do not benefit from teaching. This cannot continue. I therefore propose that the government should catch up with this problem. We need a national programme for equality between men, sooner rather than later. The root causes of this inequality need to be addressed. Is it part of the solution, for example, to put male quotas in teacher training? That would be just one measure, but a concrete step to remedy this problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u339	Mr President! I had to be away from the plenary session for a while when there was a seminar of over a hundred academics in education and social life at the Music Centre next door where I was commenting on their presentations. But I will immediately take up that point raised by Mr Mäkelä, which relates to the worsening learning outcomes of the boys. I turn it around like this, that if the difference were different, that girls would be so much weaker with regard to learning outcomes than boys, what would the alarm in society be? I do not think at all that we are necessarily a representative. With Mäkelä we see this as if according to the same analysis or conclusions, but we share that concern. The answer now needs to be sought with researchers, with teaching staff and with parents, because it is not enough to explain the fact that the boys are perhaps one year behind in the development of the girls, for reasons that we all know. But that difference is too great. We have to look for solutions for a more flexible school day, perhaps taking into account the need for boys to do more firsthand. It is phenomenal learning, drama as a method of teaching, porousness of the working day, exercise, arts, giving a lot of opportunities. Then one of the most important questions is that when children come to comprehensive school, in a way, it goes far from the baseline, and that is why the levelling of these differences in early childhood education is — ah! — as important as it is. Early childhood education is at its best. There is both research and personal experience of this in all those whose children or grandchildren have learned different things in connection with early childhood education. Then the key question is that equality and regional equality in this Finnish education are now at risk. We still have the best comprehensive school in Europe — you heard right: the best comprehensive school in Europe — but now this direction, which has, in a way, become stronger, must be reversed. I think I already said in that early evening debate that, when the amount of group and regional equality money put into education and training during the previous government was more than EUR 80 million, the equivalent of the equality and group size funds of this ruling bourgeois government amounted to EUR 16 million. In other words, the previous government invested four to five times the amount of money in children's learning outcomes, equality, which employed hundreds, practically thousands of teachers, school counselors, curators to do their job. — — — — Congressman Kankaanimi can shake his head if it's bad to be and it's not nice to listen to this. It's okay to spin. But there's no point in underestimating it. — That it is not a matter of money alone, I admit it. But it is a matter of having a sufficient number of teachers, support staff and so on in the classroom. We have here, hey come is, horribly like working together across party lines: we have had the best comprehensive school in the world. We now have the best comprehensive school in Europe. Let's make it the best primary school in the world together again.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u340	Mr President! Just a brief comment on this forced Swedish: So there is no compulsory Swedish in Finland, but Finland is a bilingual country offering the opportunity to learn two official languages. It would be a good idea to give up this kind of forced-swedish thinking.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u341	Mr President! A few speakers made a new request to speak. Among other things, Mr Laukkanen spoke about these university cuts, and that is how it is that they are truly regrettable. But the cuts of this government will return to that level of 2011 so that just as long as Laukkanen there presented no cuts have been made. Then, my dear representative Gustafsson, partner, The Pisa studies tell us their language, which we must answer. After all, they are still good, we are at a good level, but we need to think about what we are training our young people for and what kind of challenge we need to face today in the world. And if you look at the differences between Finland and Sweden, for example, then there are more successful companies in Sweden than in Finland. But they don't do so well in the Pisa studies, so you have to think about where we're going: towards the better. Pisa study results
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u342	Well, answer to Mr Laukkanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u343	Mr President! Just for a short time. Page 33: According to Statistics Finland, Finland’s R & D funding intensity was at its highest in 2009. This would therefore be the seventh consecutive year of decline.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u344	Mr President! There was something else I was going to say, but I was going to say a few words about these Pisa results. Indeed, it is good to note a few facts, first of all that according to the Pisa results, Finnish students' knowledge has been declining for quite a long time, for ten years now, and these latest, although unquestionably very worrying, results are from last year's April 2015. So these results are neither positive nor negative about the actions of this government. Instead, this sexual orientation of results — that is, the differences between girls and boys that were now clearly more striking in Finland than anywhere else in the world — is something that we need to pay particular attention to and concern for. It remains to be seen, for example, how the new curricula that have now entered into force offer solutions to enable boys to be better motivated and stimulated in order to close this glaring gender gap. This regional difference is also a concern that needs to be taken seriously, and Western Finland, for example, was the least successful in all five areas evaluated, in terms of science, literacy and mathematics. In other words, the reasons for these regional disparities and clearly weaker success in Western Finland, for example, must certainly be looked at urgently.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u345	Mr President! I will continue this debate on these Pisa results and especially on these boys' learning outcomes. We have now had excellent speeches, as Mr Sirén has said, on these differences in learning outcomes between girls and boys within the country. I dare say, however, that I am not going to take the oath, but now that these Pisa results have been proven and have shown that, especially for the sons of Eastern Finland, these learning outcomes are weaker than in other regions, I would venture to say that many Eastern Finnish municipalities certainly have an hourly framework, so there are more lessons
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u346	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u347	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u348	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u349	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u350	Mr President! It is precisely the differences in hourly frames that are large, as Mr Honkonen said there, and it is there in Eastern Finland that much more hours are used than elsewhere, that at least random samples tell me what I went through in the hourly frames. But is this the case now that this is a social problem? It seems to us that women have to work more for their own success than men do, which means that girls have become involved in the fact that they have to deal with their school affairs properly so that they will succeed in the future. So I guess the biological explanation isn't good now. How would that development in Finland alone be one year later for the sake of biology and in the rest of the world biology would not affect the result? After all, the truth is that boys are treated in society, including at school differently from girls — girls are required much more. The key issue now is that we should have sufficient literacy and numeracy for everyone so that they can continue to study and continue to work, and that, unfortunately, is not what we are doing now, and that is why we have to do these corrective tasks. But I am pleased to welcome the fact that the report highlights the resources of the workshops and of the young people who are looking for them. It is now important that we make this detective youth work play so that these falls can be found and then they can have the support they deserve. The consolidation of the cockpit is one thing that we must take very carefully forward in order to get all the services from one door in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u351	Mr President! I was thinking about talking for a while about these regional differences. It is extremely worrying that, as a result of ten years of development, we will also find them in the Pisa results, but we must understand the long continuum that is going on here. This government cannot take the credit and, on the other hand, the full responsibility for them, but it is certainly a national issue. Everyone wants the Pisa results to be better. Well, there has also been a great deal of focus on this, if you think that the development of comprehensive school is one of the government's top projects. EUR 90 million of additional funding will be available for primary schools under this key project money, and there will still be equality funding. However, this major issue still has to do with those state contributions. In other words, they are intended for those basic services. Even if we were to add a few tens of millions, the most important thing is that this government did not cut out the central government shares in primary schools, that the local government finances as a whole are positive, that no historical central government cuts were made, as the previous government did. That is the big difference that we are trying to make comprehensive school equal again. Perhaps on the equality of education and training, in that, admittedly, the cuts in vocational education and training are very large. They are very difficult, especially in those regions which have already been cut extremely hard, especially from the north and the east. It would have been very important for this too to have been taken into account over a longer period of time. That is why the government has now introduced reform into vocational education and training. The pain is that the operation goes ahead before the reform, and it is therefore important that there should be a ceiling for the cuts, which will be no more than the annual cutbacks.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u352	Mr. Speaker! Mr Gustafsson, a representative whom I appreciated as a high-level civilist, who was then Minister in the last term, told me here about this group size money. I think 80 million was the amount that he and his followers had at their discretion distributed to the municipalities to reduce group sizes. That is certainly the case, and I know this has happened, but on the other side it is the fact that during the previous parliamentary term the governments of Katainen and Stubb cut the government shares of municipalities by billions. So if the other hand was given 80 million, the other hand was taken tenfold, and the tenfold is not enough. In other words, the municipal economy was severely weakened, which led to the indebtedness of municipalities, the tightening of taxes, negotiations, crisis municipalities and the weakening of services, including education and education services. Unfortunately, that is the fact. Now the situation is quite different: the local government finances are getting stronger. Differences between municipalities are still a problem. I'd like to say to Congressman Laukkanen about that forced Swedish. When it is discussed with people in those provinces, it is there that it is perceived as a forced Swedish when you are in a fully Finnish-speaking area and keep, among other things, these less successful boys in Pisa research to learn a language that they do not feel necessary to learn in any way. These resources could indeed be used much better to build Finland’s future if these boys were taught one world language properly and not poorly in two or three languages.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u353	Mr President! Mr Laukkanen's Swedish question. That would mean that instead of Swedish, you could choose Russian, German, Spanish, French or Portuguese, for example. Then Swedish would not be compulsory, but an opportunity. This is not the case. To this effect, Mr Gustafsson's attention should be drawn to the consequences of girls' educational outcomes being as poor as that of boys: I do not want to imagine what the consequences would be. But I would not go far to find a solution to this problem, from any early childhood education, but close — purely on motivational questions and a concrete example. For example, how did it go when I was in school and was taught English? It was taught in elementary school. It was not very motivated at the time because there was no concrete need for it. School success, as I recall, was such a flat seven. However, when we went to high school, there came an era when there were computers and computers and the games that worked there were only in English. That's where that English study started to motivate and even went past school. The numbers improved by throwing, and high school started to come without reading the boarder. So here is the pedagogical observation that can be used to solve this problem. Boys are taught, not from above, but by motivation and from their own needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u354	Mr President! Representative As my corner said, the important point is that this government’s programme does not include any savings in the state’s contributions to comprehensive school. This is very central to the debate that has taken place here today. Instead of savings in central government contributions to comprehensive school, the development of comprehensive school is one of the top projects of this government, which will cost as much as EUR 90 million. This debate on equality also relates to this, and next year the government has also reserved EUR 15.2 million for the development of equal opportunities and, at the same time, for the development of the quality of special education. Equality is also linked to this language experiment, which has been ignored in several speeches. It is also intended to increase equality so that language learning at a younger age would not only be possible in larger cities, where there are now, for example, language-bathing day-care centres available, but also in wider and more languages. Language experiments are now being launched, and as early as spring, municipalities can apply for up to EUR 10 million for the purpose of starting language learning in the first grade. This is a very good, very inspiring idea from the government, and Sanni Grahn-Laasonen, Minister for Education and Culture, has made a great contribution to it. I myself believe that the younger you get to know languages, the more natural it is to learn and study them. And we all know how important language skills will be in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u355	Mr President! Still on the Pisa results. In other words, significant changes there are indeed an increase in the impact of home background and an increase in the differences between poorly successful and highly successful schools. Moreover, for the first time, the disparities between regions have increased significantly, especially in the capital region against Eastern and Western Finland. These, of course, must be addressed. We really need to think about how we can put an end to this development, but perhaps the answer can be found where we are already good and what is behind our success. However, these are the basic characteristics of the education system, i.e. the strong belief in education as a factor for the future, equal opportunities for training, skilled and trained teachers at all levels, including local responsibility and freedom to implement the national curriculum, and individual support for learning and multi-professional cooperation. These are all very important factors behind Finnish success. I also ask that when we here in Finland concentrate quite a bit on what is bad, I think we should also celebrate the fact that we have the second best girls in the world in science. It's a big party. In addition, we also have a very good The Mobility School project, which has also been excellently tried in Denmark, will continue with a small but even more significant amount of money next year. When schoolchildren move an hour a day, it stops bullying from school, circulates the blood in the brain, and the learning results improve, and there is energy for that important, or schoolwork.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u356	Mr President! I would also like to say a few words, particularly since this regional inequality, which is reflected in these Pisa studies. No attention has been paid here at all to the fact that generally in the capital region, where the learning outcomes of children are the best, their parents are also the best educated. In other words, the home background of parents is also strongly reflected in the learning outcomes of children. The second question between girls and boys: education sociology has already seen decades ago that schools have been built for girls, as it were. Girls get positive feedback at school better than boys, and surely this is still one of the things you have to think about here too, what you have said about learning methods, that attention should be paid to both girls and boys. It is also a question of how children can learn. Peace issues, bullying issues — it is necessary to have proper answers to these. It cannot be thought that we really have such a large number of children and young people, for example, who are going to drop out of school or who are excluded from school because of the failure to resolve the issues of bullying and peace in work. Group sizes are very important here. The increasing child poverty is also a serious problem for us to move towards a more equal school. The family’s situation is really reflected in the child’s learning results there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u357	Mr President! These speeches have had the taste of mourning. We have had a favorite child in primary school who has been appreciated and incensed, but the development of that favorite child has been seriously neglected. Pisa studies have now shown that there is a symptom of being left behind in comprehensive school. I'm not saying that primary school is broken, but it's time for primary school to be updated. Sanni Grahn-Laasonen's project to reform comprehensive school, to which EUR 90 million will be invested, is a good start for our comprehensive school to continue to produce skilled, educated people at different levels of further education. Clearly, today’s school does not serve different sexes in the best possible way. One of the starting points for this reform work must be to transform the school so that both sexes, children from different backgrounds, have equal opportunities, on the basis of their own conditions, to learn skills for both further studies and life. However, I would like to say to Mr Kankaan: If the teenagers are asked what things are necessary for them to continue, we will certainly have a very varied view of the subjects in our school that we want to study or not. It is a value and pride for me to be part of bilingual Finland, and I hope that our young people will also be able to study another Finnish language at least to avoid skill levels.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u358	Mr President! Much has been said here today about the Pisa results and the financial cuts. I would now like to raise another positive point about the budget for the coming year. The first positive thing is that this term of government will not break the foundation of basic education by cutting the state's share of basic education in municipalities, as has already been said here in many speeches. And the other positive thing, Mr President, is the Mobility School project that Mr Kosonen has just raised. I very much welcome the allocation of EUR 20 million for the nationalisation of the Mobility School project for next year in the budget for the coming year. I believe that we are all behind the goal of the Mobility School project, that is, an hour of physical exercise per day to comprehensive school for all. The funding that has now been granted is seed money, the results of which depend much on how teachers are now implementing good practice in their everyday lives, i.e. how they take up this project. Increasing physical activity and integrating physical activity into our children’s daily lives will serve both health maintenance and disease prevention, and will certainly contribute to the strengthening of learning outcomes, as physical activity at school can be better than at present.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u359	Mr President! There has been a good debate today both on the budget, of course, and then on the wider education situation, and it is good that the studies have also been discussed here, that what is the current state of our education before these decisions by the current government and parliament now start to affect this education. Firstly, these regional differences must indeed be noted — which must continue to be maintained — in terms of the qualifications and availability of teachers. We already have genuine concerns about this in Eastern Finland, for example with the Kajaani Teacher Education Institute, when we know that qualified replacements are no longer available in the same way, because they are now far from these schools in our region. And in the future, there will also be concern that there will be sufficient qualified teachers in the posts. Then what is also remarkable about these results is that the background of the parents is influenced, above all, by the level of income and also by the level of education. It also has a certain effect on the way in which education is spoken about: if there is a lot of long-term unemployment, then in a certain way that kind of message can also pass on to the next generation, and perhaps that kind of education will not, unfortunately, be appreciated in speeches. This is also the result of the serious segregation of our jobs and regional development in recent years, and this is reflected in these results now also through children. As far as small municipalities are concerned, it has been argued that they are not able to teach in the same way. This is not the case for girls, for example. After all, in small municipalities and schools they do very well. Above all, it is about the learning outcomes of the boys, where these problems exist. These boys’ learning patterns are good to think about. I myself have been an entrepreneur coach and found that for certain people only this kind of phenomenal learning, doing learning, better pass. If you think that mobility has also decreased clearly in children, then this mobility is also directly related to these learning outcomes and the motivation, and this is what I was thinking,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u360	Mr President! If a government program had to be named one of its own favorite entries, this "hours of exercise for every day" is definitely one for me personally. It sounds small, but it has very far-reaching and significant implications for the future of children and young people. Of course, it is possible to improve the health, well-being and thus learning outcomes of children and young people for every school day, but that activity also has other positive effects. That is why I would like to mention this additional allocation for club activities, EUR 3 million, which I am pleased to note from the committee's report. It enables free-of-charge club activities, which, on the other hand, allows many children who otherwise do not have a hobby because of the family’s financial situation. After all, we have talked a lot about these increased hobby fees, and we are certainly all concerned about them. In order for every child to have the opportunity to engage in a hobby, various measures are needed to implement this hobby moon around Finland. This club funding is one good part of the key project funding, the cultural and artistic activities of children and young people is another, and this whole Mobility School also contributes to these objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u361	Madam President! This has been a very good debate on learning. I would also like to point out that learning is not just a part of school and learning is not just a matter of school, but that home support is extremely important when we talk about the results of comprehensive school. How the student is supported in school, how he is actually helped in doing homework is important, but also, more generally, the appreciation of education is important now that there is reference to socio-economic differences in different regions and also to the fact that people with a higher educational background do not live in rural areas as much as in urban areas, which affects this issue. But we traditionally have a high level of education and education in Finland, and the development of our own competence is highly valued. And now, if it seems to be crumbling, as if we see a lack of prospects of hope that education is not an opportunity to move forward, then that is something to be really worried about, and I see that it is a shared concern of this whole Parliament. When I am the first master's in my own family, the first to have a higher education degree, I see it as very important that we take care of education opportunities and continue to maintain that appreciation of education.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u362	Madam President! A lot of good things have been said here about education, and it has highlighted the importance of physical activity, improving the learning opportunities of boys and all the other good things, but I think that one of them is above the others, and that was Mr Laukkanen's presentation. It was a forward-looking presentation and a forward-looking effort, and it is a question of how the money is enough for our education and getting enough money to teach. The parable of the seven years cut was very appropriate. I agree with the idea that I hope from the government and the next government that the next seven years will be invested in our studies and studies. We are such a small nation that we cannot afford to throw any children out of the cycle of learning in order to maintain the welfare state.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u363	Madam President! This is a reference to the Pisa studies several times. I am still on the road to Pisa, which means that the learning outcomes of the boys in Eastern Finland are indeed the weakest in the country, and here I would like to raise a little bit of the same issue as Mr Jarva. So from there Savonlinna, the teacher training institution will cease in a year and a half, and the whole of Eastern Finland has also stopped providing continuing teacher training. In other words, this is not at least the direction we must pursue in order to improve those learning outcomes in Eastern Finland. Regional accessibility is of course important, and according to all information, teachers are very localised people, so teacher training should be available in different parts of Finland, not only in Western and Southern Finland. Fortunately, the Government has started to work on this issue, because this is also a place of crisis in Savonlinna. The Government, together with the actors in the region, is preparing measures to safeguard growth and employment in our region, which can include issues related to education, research, product development, investment in economic activities, the bioeconomy and tourism development.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u364	Mr President! It is good to say here that the important thing is that it is desirable and hard work must be done to ensure that education is no longer and cannot be cut off. Finland has always done well with education and knowledge and quality education, and this will be more and more so in the future. On the subject of the report by the Committee on Finance, as a member of the Section for Education and Science, I would like to express my joy at the fact that we have invested around EUR 12 million in education and that those investments will come precisely to those targets, to the development of the quality of early childhood education, to the development of the quality of basic education and also to children's club activities, so that every child has the opportunity to engage in a hobby, and in particular to promote sports activities. I am sure that these contributions will be specific contributions to equality in education, and I am very pleased about them. But, Madam President, when Finland turns 100 years old, it is great that we are getting a big investment in borrowing payments. After all, Finland has paid the authors, the Finnish literature, as compensation for the loans only since 2007, and in other Nordic countries that compensation has been granted for decades. Our level of compensation has been very low, and we have also received the Commission's comment on it. In this Parliament, the parties, the parliamentary groups have together contributed to this issue, worked hard, and it is really a great thing that next year's budget actually brings the lending allowance to almost EUR 16 million. That is EUR 6.3 million more than this year. This is a great party decision. That quotation fee also extends to educational and research libraries where it has not yet existed. This is a fine decision, and I must say that Finnish literature and writers have earned their wages.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u365	Madam President! Much has been said today in this Chamber about the inequalities in education and its dangers, and this is undoubtedly a very serious problem which must also be tackled with a serious hand. The opposition, on the other hand, has accused the government of cuts in basic education and early childhood education,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u366	Madam President! This recently highlighted the availability of qualified teachers in different parts of the country. In fact, it must be mentioned that this government is investing a considerable amount of money in the development of teacher training. There will also be money budgeted for it in the coming year. This is a very important issue, and the development of continuing training, especially for teachers, will require a lot of effort. After all, there are quite significant differences in the way in which the skills of teachers can be developed. Very much so-called in-service training for teachers is how to describe it now, recreational rather than systematic or scientific knowledge-based. There is a great deal of development here, and I am very pleased about that and I would also like to thank Mr Grahn-Laasonen, Minister for Education and Culture, for his very head's determination to move this forward. Indeed, we need a stronger link with teacher training institutions in this continuing training of teachers who are already in office. It's kind of where you get that research. There, then, there is even a need for school-specific, municipal models of how the know-how – for example, now this digital competence, which has been on the surface a lot lately – is developed where. Such mentoring systems have been created, and surely in this development of digital competence they are also in order. New teachers, young people, beginners, will also benefit from these mentoring models. I hope that they will be widely applied in different municipalities in Finland. I would like to conclude with a comparison which one of my colleagues, when I myself am a teacher of subjects from my education, said here recently when I asked how that teacher's career started: "I have never been as lost as I was at the first parent-teacher's night." In other words, many kinds of skills are needed in teachers' careers, and
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u367	Mr President! Indeed, many of the objectives that we want to achieve through our top projects are absolutely central to this continuing training of teachers, and that is why there is now a very significant budget for the coming year — 20 million for next year. We have talked a lot about early childhood education, the reform of primary school and the second stage of this very important vocational education reform, which is certainly one of the biggest individual elements that we are currently in the process of our education policy, but it must also be mentioned that high school has not been forgotten in any way, but that upper secondary school education is also determined to be developed, above all so that upper secondary school education is more and more responsive to the needs of the future and strengthens the opportunities that high school students have for their own future. One example of this is the variety of opportunities for peeking and experimenting, cooperation with universities, where there are already good, inspiring examples. Then there is the action to be taken on behalf of young people. Target-oriented measures must be taken in favour of young people and in order to prevent exclusion, and this is also the case. In the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, we too have had a very strong focus on the prevention of the exclusion of young people in both years, and it is now very good that the committee is increasing the funding for youth workshops and outreach youth work, as well as for young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u368	Mr President! I must say that it has been very interesting to listen here to the excuses of the government parties for this budget. They've been talking to each other about how well this has been going. The fact is, however, that the government is cutting. The government cuts higher education, increases the group sizes of early childhood education and the class sizes of schools. It cuts spending on research and product development. The Government is working to break the success story of Finnish education and to weaken the opportunities of future generations.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u369	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u370	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u371	Mr President! The biggest relative cuts have been made by this government to education, and indeed it is that as a small nation we have little more than our children and our young people and their training. We also need more and more knowledge. We are competing in the world precisely because we are developing products for which there is demand. It does not come without money for research, product development. We are very clearly separating ourselves from this Nordic group by the fact that research and product development funds have been reduced. The more R & D funds are calculated through the state budget, the more it is reflected in private R & D. It would certainly be a good thing for the municipalities now to use the funds which are coming to them through state aids, as it were, specifically for education, for reducing class sizes, for early childhood education, but this is not the case, because you are blocking this by legislation. In particular, it concerns early childhood education, where group sizes have grown. The subjective right to early childhood education has been weakened and is reflected particularly in the most deprived families there, and, as has already been discussed here, one of the biggest problems in our education policy is that education is socially inherited. We can't afford this.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u372	Madam President! First of all, it must be said that it is nice to have the opposition on the defensive for once. In my previous speech, I would like to repeat my question to the representatives of the opposition: what do you think about the record large state-owned cuts you made in the previous government? In my view, you now bear a very great responsibility for the fact that boys are at risk of exclusion, especially in Eastern and Northern Finland, and the inequalities in education are torn apart. I thank the government for taking decisive steps to strengthen the municipal economy in this country, because the municipalities are the unit on which this crown jewel of our education, or elementary school, rests. Comprehensive school rests on the shoulders of municipalities. As far as Mr Tolppaen is concerned, I understand the annoyance of Mr Tolppanen, for he was now voluntarily jumping into the team that was prepared to carry out such cuts.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u373	Mr President! In the case of cuts to universities, it is good to recall this ratio again when it comes to the erosion of our education and research. The budget funding of universities will be reduced from 3.2 billion to 3.1 billion, and this reduction of 0.1 billion will undoubtedly hurt us all, but it will continue to be significantly budgeted to support universities. And we must not forget this capitalisation which this government has prepared and which has been prepared for. It is additional funding, a new type of welcome addition which does not replace the basic funding, but it offers an opportunity to compete more effectively there in the international field, and universities and universities in Finland Unifi, for example, have very positively accepted this possibility of capitalisation. So yes, the government really wants to see a lot of opportunities in our high-quality higher education, research, innovation and also in the better use of innovations in cooperation with industry. These are all things that are being worked on on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u374	Mr President! Once again on this matter of study aid, it is very close to me. Ten years ago, when I was chairman of a student organisation, the same issue was discussed that the current housing allowance, which the students have received, has long been inadequate. That is why the government is taking this forward, Parliament has already accepted this, and then in the budget this change is also reflected in the way that when students move to the general housing allowance, so low-income students will receive more money from the state during their studies. This is a very important change, and that is not going to change, no matter how it is said that it is wrong to do this, but it is a very fair decision, which student organisations have also supported, this transition to general housing support. Well, then, with regard to this innovation funding, it must be said that in the organisations that we have carried out this research and development activity in Finland, even higher education institutions, although their funding has been increased by EUR 1 billion over some ten years, yet this research and development activity has not moved forward in the way that this investment has been made there, these outputs have not come from there. There is also a great deal to be said about changing the way things work. The most important thing would be to work much more closely with business, with working life, where in practice the transformation of innovation into products and services also takes place. The same thing can be seen on the study side, especially in vocational education, where at present the closeness of working life is far too light. This is clear from both students and employers who should hire these future professionals. It is very good that vocational education and training should move more to jobs, including closer to jobs and small municipalities and their
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u375	Mr President! I am a little confused about what Mr Karnä said, namely that I went to the Socialist Party. I did not move to the assembly or downtown and left the Finns. These three parties are the ones who are now cutting. They are now taking money from education, they are now taking money from the future. But most of all, of course, I just wanted to say that I did not really come from any of these parties, but came to the Socialist Party. Of course, if we go back to what was done during the last term of government, we can look back on history no matter how much, but when history doesn't know the alternatives, it doesn't work. Now it is worth looking ahead and building a Finland where our young people are good to be and live.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u376	Your Honor! That said, the transfer of students to the general housing allowance has particularly improved the situation of low - income students, the situation of students living alone when they live dearly. That is the case, but unfortunately the housing allowance for family students and other families with children has been cut. Nor can it be reasonable for students to take away the additional support they need for one part of the students. This reduction in housing allowance, which was made in this context, is also very regrettable because it affects many families that have been cut in other situations. When one remembers that, in this same context, there is a sharp hand cut in the budget, there is little reason to celebrate the fact that we have a good situation for students and that it is precisely for those students who do not receive support from their families, for example, that we should be able to study full-time. Ensuring full-time learning is also the best guarantee that study time will remain reasonable, and this is also, of course, a national economic issue and the question of how we can get a trained workforce, as soon as possible and a well-trained workforce, into the labour market.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u377	Mr President! Finally, the previous speech referred to early childhood education, and I would like to refer to these changes in customer fees for early childhood education. When these discounts, which are quite significant for low incomes, and in particular for single parents, can be talked about a monthly discount of more than EUR 50, this will indeed enable early childhood education and support early childhood education in many low income families. As far as this research is concerned, which has been referred to, it is very gratifying that an increase has been made for young researchers in science by an increase in the concession powers of the Academy of Finland, which was EUR 30 million in a one-off manner, and also an increase of EUR 10 million in the basic power. The funding of the Strategic Research Council in the context of the Academy of Finland is also quite significant, EUR 47 million for next year and EUR 55.6 million for the concession.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u378	Mr President! I do not wish to prolong the debate on this point any longer, but I would now like to correct the previous speaker's speech that families have been disciplined in some way, because it is precisely those with low income families who have reduced early childhood education fees, for example, and that the zero-payment category will remain. It is precisely the state that now obliges municipalities to offer this zero-payment category, so this possibility will also be better opened up to families who have the possibility or the situation is such that they will have access to that zero-payment category. Still for this housing support. The situation is that even though this cut in student money is made, the support for housing is increased specifically by low income, single - living, high - rent students.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u379	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u380	Mr President! We are now dealing with an important on-call reform, and it is an important package that proposes the pooling of special care in larger units and the concentration of rare or demanding measures, as well as improving provisions on social emergency services and access to and access to social care. In addition, it is proposed to increase the emergency reception of primary health care in health centres so as to improve the availability of local services on weekdays and weekends. In fact, this proposal is a good one and we support it, and I would like to say straight away that we support the development of on-call legislation and the need for on-call legislation, but we do not accept the way in which this has been dealt with as a separate part of the rest of the social and health reform. That is why, both in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health and here too, we Social Democrats, the Greens and the Christian have lodged a joint objection to the rejection of this law, and I am now bringing to your attention the reasons for it. First of all, I would like to say at the outset that the most important point here is that this bill should have been dealt with in conjunction with the reform of social welfare and health care, because on-call services are a natural part of social and health services. The second point that has to do with this is that this law is based on the reform of social welfare and health care and the foundations attached to it during the last parliamentary term. These foundations are completely different from the reform of social welfare and health care now being prepared by the government. That is why it is truly confusing and, if I may say so, illogical that the preparation of the law is based on a completely different structure of social and health care than would then be implemented in the future. Firstly, during the last period, social and health services were provided by the public sector, not only for the provision of services, but also mainly for the provision of services. The services were complemented by private service providers and organisations. The aim was to get larger service providers, entities. In addition, one of the most important issues was the good integration of social and health services, both at the base level and at the special level. The aim was to reduce administrative boundaries and create larger entities. The services were also financed by municipalities, which were supported by central government transfers and customer fees. The situation that is now to come is exactly the opposite. Social and health services are transferred from municipalities to regions, the services are organised by the province, and the services are provided by public, private and organisations on an equal basis. All basic services are forced-on and broken into separate entities. Funding comes directly from the state to the provinces, and the provinces then distribute it to service providers on a separate basis. Freedom of choice legislation will be one of the essential elements of this whole, but we do not know what its content is, because the government parties have not been able to get a common view of it, and as a result we do not know what kind of freedom of choice will come into the country in the future. It is clear that emergency services are a natural part of social and health services. Now the on-call law would only be in force for a year when the Ministry has to prepare the new legislation on a completely new basis, because this legislation is not in line with the future requirements of the new reform of social welfare and health care in the future for this on-call service. In addition to this, we do not think that this whole package gives a good picture of the overall drafting of legislation when one separate part is imported from it, which will not yet be what we expect it to be in the future. We believe that on-call legislation should be dealt with as part of future social protection. This would give a real vision and vision of the future, of the future of social and health services as a whole. — — — — Mr President, can I continue with this objection? — — — — Thank you. In any case, the most important and essential part for us is that we would have liked and seen justified that on-call legislation should have been dealt with together with social and health care reform in the coming spring. Now the government has also argued that this is a budget law, and now this government has announced that this budget would save the state EUR 50 million in the coming year 2017. However, this law will not enter into force in practice until 2018 and its economic impact will only be reflected in 2019, which is why we do not believe that these economic budgetary criteria will give it the basis for the fact that this legislation could not have been dealt with next spring in the context of the social and health care reform. Various experts have pointed out that this package of legislation presents a number of problems. Valvira noted, among other things, that the effects of the concentration could be watered down: when the public service provider had to take the services to larger entities, at the same time a private service provider could come into the region to provide similar services because they were not covered by the bill. If, after that, freedom of choice would also apply to special care, Valvira has stated in its opinion that a private producer can access the market, so to speak, through the kitchen, which the public must leave because of this legislation, through concentration. In that respect, the legislation does not treat the various service providers equally, rather it treats them unequally. This also appears to be the case when the forthcoming reform of social and health care services says that private, public and organisations would be service providers at the same time, this legislation will enable private service providers to prepare for future social welfare reform and the related freedom of choice in a way that is quite different from that of the public sector. This wateres down the centralisation of services and the benefits of providing knowledge and better and more efficient services. Mr President! Of course, this legislation also involves linguistic issues. It is essential for the success of quality care that patients receive their services in their own home language. The reform of social and health care, such as emergency services, also involves safeguarding linguistic rights and the fact that the Hospital District of Vaasa should have been included in the list of hospitals. In other words, we had supported the approach in several expert opinions, i.e. the 12+1 model. This did not happen now, however, if Parliament approves this proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u381	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that we are in favour of Mr Kiljune's motion for rejection. This proposal is a good example of what Chancellor Jonkka meant by poor drafting of the law. When, in the course of drafting the law, the actual text of the articles begins to be amended without the committee being able to take a position on them with time, we are already on a path where it can be said that it no longer meets the basic symbols of a good legislative act. Then there is the matter. In our view, deciding on the hospital network without further information on the content of the freedom of choice sought by the government does not meet the criteria for good legislative drafting. The legislation on freedom of choice for social and health services will determine where, for example, the surgical functions of specialised medical care are to be incorporated and covered by the competitive market. The Government had promised to outline the content of freedom of choice in November, but the decision-making process has been postponed, and now there is a lack of essential knowledge of what the government's objective is. Without sufficient information, we cannot decide on-call hospitals in such a way that legislation is properly targeted, effective, coherent and understandable. It should be noted that the law will be implemented in the field of public social welfare and health care, which will be subject to major reforms and restructuring in about a year's time when the social welfare reform comes into force together with the regional reforms. In order to safeguard linguistic rights, we believe that the Hospital District of Vaasa should have been included in the list of hospitals for full emergency services, with a large number of good arguments. For example, we can mention one key point: the correct understanding of patient data and diagnosis. It is thought that the information of the Swedish-speaking population from the Hospital in Vaasa leaves the hospital in Seinäjoki, where it cannot be guaranteed that the linguistic level is such that the patient data and, in particular, diagnostics are correctly understood. We are immediately in the area of patient safety and we are grossly violating it and we may also cause a huge number of wrong measures, both in health and administrative terms. This is in itself such a big and powerful reason that it would already have required clear, greater and longer-term consideration. Mr President! This objection is well founded on all these other issues, so I will not repeat them here, but I repeat that we support this motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u382	Ärade Herr Talman, Mr President! Jourförordningen har nu nått andra behandlingen i plenum. Det mesta har säkert redan sagts om detta lagförslag, men för historieskrivningen är det viktigt att vi debatterar förslaget ännu en gång. Utgångsläget för lite drygt ett år sedan var följande: Enligt det som berattades i offentligheten under den så kallade regeringskrisen som vi hade ville centerpartiet ha läs många fulljoursjukhus som landskapen, eller 18 stucken. Sannfinländarna var beredda att stöda en sådan modell, medan samlingspartiet ville ha endast fem 5 erva-områden. Compromise blev 12 fulljoursjuchus. Antalet 12 hittar man bland give också i Sitras rapport och THL:s rapporter för rationalising av sjukården, men de båda placerar Österbotten och Vasa centralsjuchus som ett självklart fulljoursjukhus. Regeringen valde i ställett att inte utse Vasa till ett fulljoursjuchus. När man läser regeringens proposition får man en stark känsla av att argumenten för att fälla ut Vasa är regionalpolitiskt motiverade och att beslutet om replacing fattats först och sedan därefter har man byggt upp argumenten. Social- och älsovårdsministeriests hårt kritiserade sakkunnigutlåtanden under ricksdagsbehandlingen förstarker denna Bild effectsom som ministersets statistik inte alls stammer överens med de uppgifter som bland you give Vasa centralsjuchus direktorör tillställt riksdagen. Någon kommer säkert i sinom tid att granska de givna uppgifterna, och då antigen verifiera dem eller konstatera dem vara felaktiga.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u383	Mr President! I'm going straight to Vaasa Central Hospital. I will not go through the things that have already been said twice. But various claims have indeed been heard from Vaasa Central Hospital, and I will take up a few of them here. The argument that the new status does not import or take money is wrong. According to revised information from Vaasa Central Hospital, the maintenance of the service in Swedish costs Vaasa Central Hospital EUR 1.2 million per year. This amount has not been taken into account anywhere. In the future, this expense will also burden Seinäjoki Hospital, because there, too, translators, language teacher, language supplements and printing products and making different forms for two different languages cost money. In addition, a full-service ambulance for the transport of Vaasa-Säinäjoki-Vasa costs 0.5 million per year with maintenance. This also includes transportation that is not carried by ambulance but by taxi. The argument that there will be 50 of these shipments per year is also wrong. Director Auvo Rauhala of Vaasa Central Hospital says that these shipments will be from 450 to 750 per year. Of course, this includes patients taking patients to the erva hospital. The Erva area for the Hospital District of Vaasa is Turku, and then it is mainly patients who require brain surgery, or if there is a stroke or a brain hemorrhage, but in general patients in that direction. It is claimed that if surgery is removed from Vaasa Central Hospital, it will not affect anything — it is irrelevant — because there are few orthopedic and cancer surgery. It is important because Vaasa Central Hospital has a certified good cancer hospital, there are many oncological surgeries. In addition, it is a highly respected orthopedic surgical hospital. Also, with regard to various heart cases, which are now moving away from Vaasa at the turn of the year, false information has been given about how much of these surgeries have been successful and how much has failed. The success rate of Vaasa Central Hospital is clearly higher than that of Seinäjoki Central Hospital. However, I do not really want to go and compare these central hospitals. These are all in the statistics. If orthopedics and cancer surgeons are taken from Vaasa Central Hospital, it means that that hospital will wither. If this is the case that Vaasa Central Hospital does not become one 12+1 hospital, then it is very important that we look at what will be written in the regulation. If the regulation prohibits artificial joints or surgery in Vaasa, it also carries with it childbirth, resulting in anesthesia, as well as women’s and children’s diseases — this because we are not going to have the surgeons of Vaasa afterwards. No professional self - respecting surgeon comes to a hospital, where no more than one or two cesarean operations are performed daily, and during the day, various abscess and other procedures that do not pose a challenge to doctors are treated. As far as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is concerned, it is now a matter that needs to be clarified, and I really hope that the Prime Minister will answer to us here in the Chamber. I understood from the news that he could be here on the eve of Christmas Eve, for example. With all due respect to the Prime Minister: It's okay with us. Nor do MPs have working hours. We're going to have the morning Eve, the eve, or Christmas Day, but we want an explanation from you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u384	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! För det första måste jag konstatera att det sker tråkiga saker i Berlin. Det är ytterst beklagligt att Europa igen har strabbats av ett terrordåd. Vi kan inte you give me a drunk och vice med dem som blivit utsata. Men, värderade talman! Varför vill regeringen kora över Österbotten, Vasa och det svenska? Varför vill man inte lija det alternativ som ur patientens synvinkel, såväl ur den finskspråkiga som den Svenskspråkiga patientens synvinkel är den bästa lösningen? Det vill säga fulljour såväl i Vasa som i Seinäjoki. Varför ska vi inte få fortsätta utveckla Vasa centralsjukhus som håller ög kvalitet med de resurser som vi själva skapar i vårt landskap? Varför ska vi behöva drunka oss överkörda och som andra classics medborgare vars rättigheter inte plötsligt behöver tryggas på bästa tänkbara lytt? Varför för de regionala sjukhusen, så som Brahestad, Forssa och Jakobstad inte fortsätta med sin dagsurgeur? Hur kan man göra så bull? Här, basta vanner, några frågor som medborgare i republiken Finland har ställt mig de senaste dagarna. Och frågorna är berättigade. Människor är oroliga, drunk otrygghet inför framtiden. Människor drunker också uppgivehet inför landsets regering som kör sitt race med slutna ögon. Också finskspråkiga reagerar, flere har visat sitt stöd för svenskan och det tvåspråkiga Finland genom att byta modersmål och registrera sig som Svenskspråkiga hos magistraten. Jag lyfter på hatten för under dem.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u385	Ärade talman, Mr President! The government is pushing this on-call reform like a snake into a gun. Originally marketed as self-government reform, the social and regional reform has become a huge concentration operation, in which, unfortunately, a large part of the central centre's main traditional cane horses are slaughtered, the province and the municipality. 60% of the money is taken from the municipalities to the level of the state, while the state responds with strong direction from above, in fact with an iron fist. What kind of operation is this? Swedish should be pleased that bilingualism is spreading like wildfire now in the direction of Seinäjoki, where 0.29 per cent of Swedish speakers are currently in the hospital district of South Ostrobothnia. Now the area is made bilingual in this way in the sense that it should be ready to serve Swedish-speaking patients as well. We all understand that this will not work in practice. And the practical question, Mr President, is that the practical services work both there on-call and throughout the entire treatment chain there in the hospital.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u386	Värderade Herr Talman! Den rauh frågan är speciellt svår för dem med svenska som modersmål i vårt land och den har upprört många rai i salen och ännu flera utanför den rauh byggnaden. Varför så? Jo, för att enligt min och många andras bedömning är det rauta en viktig grundlagsenlig rättiget och en princip som vi nu är oroliga för att regeringen och en majoritet av ricksdagen håller på att frångå. Jag vill så gärna tro att regeringen och regeringspartierna rai i riksdagen fortsättingsvis vill värna om ett TVåspråkigt Finland med en respekt för grundlagens stipuleringar. Tyvärr ser jag hemskt få tecken på det i handlingarna.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u387	Mr President! The government is seeking the best possible on-call reform, and it is quite clear that, in the context of such a major reform, there are situations in which some regions, some hospitals are experiencing difficulties, unpleasantness, concern and grief about what happens to medical care in their own region. The on-call reform is an important part of the whole social and health reform, but it is also important as an independent reform. It should have been done years ago. In fact, the differentiation of on-call care has drifted behind us, and the quality is currently not all the same as in a welfare state such as Finland, health care should also be at on-call time. The citizens' fundamental right is to receive 24/7/365 on-call services at a specific level, both for health care and social services. The quality of the service is particularly affected by the competence and overall competence of the personnel so that the specialists are able to work together. In Finland, there are no resources to train a large number of experts in narrow specialised fields so that there are very many units on call for special care around the clock. Another factor affecting quality is distance. Now, on the model of 12 hospitals, 50 per cent of the Finnish population live 30 minutes away from those on-call units and 80 per cent less than 50 minutes away. I believe that this distance is in line with the quality of care. Thus, in the current draft law, competence has been concentrated on 12 units, which have excellent capacity to act in crisis situations from a knowledge and geography point of view. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, [Mauri Pekkarinen, First Vice-President :Mr. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u388	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u389	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u390	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u391	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u392	Mr President! The hospital law has produced a truly wide - ranging discussion and amazement of recent times. The Government's proposal is part of a major reform of social welfare and health services. The central objective of the government's social welfare reform is to get primary health care in order and to shift the focus to basic services. The decision is justified by safety and cost-effectiveness. The objective is good in itself, but the means chosen by the government to achieve this aim are questionable, and the main question is why the issue of on-call services is treated as a separate project from the whole of social reform. Mr President! We would not be in this situation if the government had made a fair decision instead of a bad compromise. What do I mean by a bad compromise? I understand that the central objective originally was the same level of central hospitals in every province — i.e. 18. According to the information we received, the Coalition Party sought to concentrate the activities of extensive emergency services on only five hospitals. If the government sought the best solution, as Mr Raassina said, I will question the solution that has been taken. The compromise that has now emerged does not serve citizens equally. Mr Raassina said that everyone has the right to receive services in their own language. I would like to believe that the government wants good, but I and many people have been left completely unclear as to how it would work in practice in Seinäjoki. I have also said in previous debates that I believe that there are doctors in Seinäjoki who are able to serve in Swedish. But, Mr President, it is good to remember that when we go to hospital, we spend most of our time with the rest of the medical staff. So, even if doctors know relatively good Swedish, how could the medical staff be able to serve?
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u393	Mr President, värderade talman! Some might think that this is a mere discussion of the hospital, that it is simply a discussion of the right to equal treatment, that it is a discussion of the need to guarantee the highest possible level of service for every Finnish citizen. Of course, we are discussing that too, but also an even bigger question. How is this country managed? What is the way in which laws are enacted? How did we get to the point where the government felt that it could falsify the Constitutional Committee's statements, as was done in this bill? This has been stated by many constitutional scholars. How did we get to the point where the Constitution is not seen as a protection but as a disadvantage, as many representatives of the government parties have pointed out in recent days? To this I must say that I am surprised, I am very surprised that Minister Sipilä's silence on this issue continues. How did we get to the point where constitutional rights are the secondary concern that constitutional rights are something that will be reviewed after the political objectives have been achieved? Mr President! Under the leadership of Minister Sipilä, the government has deviated from a fundamental principle in this respect, and that is the steak of this issue. That is the reason why everyone should be concerned about this line, including the Members of the Assembly and of the Centre. Today, this deviation means that some of the people are concerned about their future because they see this line as an omen of other lines of the future. Tomorrow, it might mean something else. Big principles should not be changed lightly, and you cannot judge other than light criteria if you do not even want to present them. If the representatives of the government parties do not even bother to present them, if the only reason is that this was decided, the number is 12 and we do not cancel, or that we did not have time to investigate, then the change in the principles previously cut into stone has been made on very light grounds.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u394	Mr President! It has been sad to see that certain areas have been coldly discriminated against without any objective justification for the appointment of large-scale emergency services hospitals. I am referring here to Vaasa and the coast of Ostrobothnia, as many have already said. There were many concerns about exports earlier today. There was a great talk of general theory, not much practice. In the Vaasa region, 2 per cent of our country's population lives, but almost 40 per cent of Finland's energy technology exports. Measured in euros, Ostrobothnian companies import more money to finance welfare services than the five least-exporting provinces combined. My friends, this money is used to finance many hospitals and much more. The hospital is an important part of a money-making ecosystem, as many business managers have said here. I am very surprised that the Coalition Party has never taken a position on this, that there would be no link to exports when such huge reforms are being made, even though the leaders of the major stock exchange companies have said it out loud. In the various measurements of THL, the Vaasa Central Hospital is also constantly in the top group of two or three hospitals — even this has not been discussed much. Patient safety work, heart and cancer are top-notch. Why do we have to risk a concept that works? In the province of Ostrobothnia, the population is growing, unlike in many other regions, where patients are now being forced to transport. Why? Why not pay attention to population growth? The population density of the town of Vaasa, on the other hand, is many times higher than that of many other provincial centres. Is that not essential when it comes to acute care that as many people as possible get away as quickly as possible? You'd think so. International air and shipping transport increases the risk of a major accident — not taken into account. It's the longest trip to a university hospital in the country. The hospital also guarantees some 100,000 constitutional linguistic rights in Swedish at a practical level, and almost as many Finnish speakers are there, it is good to remember. More than a hundred other languages are spoken in Vaasa alone. I was contacted by a half friend. She told me that at 16 years of age she had been in a completely Finnish-speaking environment in a hospital for severe cancer treatments — well, she survived it. He knew a little bit of Finnish. So much Finnish knew that the staff asked him to act as an interpreter. He was allowed to tell a 12-year-old Swedish-speaking and his family that this young boy had leukemia. That's what it's practically like. I don't know if you've thought this through. Apparently not. They haven't thought about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u395	Värderade Herr Talman! Åland berörs inte av jourreformen, social- och helsovård är självstyrelsens behörighet och sjukården betalas av landskapet. Ändå oroar jourreformen kraftigt ålänningarna och på Åland effectom man upplever att man monterar ner det tvåspråkiga Finlands strukturer när man hits inte sagt hur man i practiceken komper att ordna de grundlagsenliga ragtigheterna för svenskspråkiga österbotningar att få sin sjukgård på sitt eget modersmål. Tingsrättsreformens planer på nedläggning av tingsrätten med svenska som förvaltningsspråk samt diskussioner om språkförsök skapar en obehaglig känsla på Åland om att Finland håller på att montera ne landets tvåspråkighet. Det är viktigt att regeringen tydligt visar att så inte är fallet utan att man lyssnar och bryr sig. Åland fick självstyrelse 1921 som ett internationalellt beslut i Nationernas förbund. Finland ville inte att Åland skulle bli en del av Sverige och förband sig därför internationalellt till Ålands självstyrelse och att åtagandena på och med Åland skulle ske på svenska. Men, för att det ska fungera måste också de Svensk- och TVåspråkiga strukturerna i landet fungera i practiceken. Den au reformen försvagar de strukturerna och riskerar att på sikt försvaga svenska ställning i landet. Därför hoppas jag att regeringen ännu vidtar nödvändiga åtgärder för att så inte sker. Det är sent, men det är inte för sent. Den aus frågan är större n 12 joursjuchus. Den auri frågan handlar också om landsets identitet i dag och i framtiden. Därför behövs nu vidsynthet, perspectiveiv, ödmjukhet och respekt.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u396	Mr President! There have been a number of debates here and a lot of speeches on this issue. Even when this basic decision was made, I myself took a longer floor, where I went through this 12-hospital model. In fact, in this debate today, Mr Raassina well explained that the emergency services are not limited to these 12 hospitals but will remain in the future in other hospitals, including those that have been discussed here today. And these 12 hospitals are in no way identical to each other. There are the five university hospitals and seven other hospitals. The seven other hospitals are not identical either, but neither are the five university hospitals. These areas of emergency services are by far the most important in Meilahti, where, in fact, certain competences are concentrated overall, and that is the direction we will have to go in anyway if we want to be able to take care of the best know-how in this country. Of course, I also regret that Hämeenlinna, which is the closest one to me to these hospitals, could not fit in with 12 plus 1st. I myself would have liked to have seen such a model, but I understand that this activity must also have been centralised and applied for knowledge through it too. Similar measures have been taken with emergency centres, which has also been the subject of a colorful debate in due course, and now we are quite satisfied with the model that has been taken, and even suggested that we can get along with two emergency centres. Or in emergency care quality has improved significantly in modern
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u397	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! No one will dispute that the Swedish People's Party has a special competence when it comes to how to safeguard and develop bilingualism in Finland. For decades, a hundred years ago, we know that in order for it to be effectively safeguarded, we must build structures that make it possible, for example, to obtain service in Swedish. There has been talk here today of goodwill, and I do not deny that there is goodwill, perhaps not from everyone, but at least from those who are here today. But that's not enough, unfortunately. We know from experience that it is not enough, but that we must safeguard it with very specific measures, and in that sense it really seems frustrating that we do not support a solution with a functional bilingual system in which, as has been said here today, both national languages also receive health care in an acute situation, including in the case of non-basic problems.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u398	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u399	Mr President! This is very brief, because time is passing: I shall be tabling amendments in accordance with the protest.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u400	Mr President! I support Mrs Sem's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u401	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u402	Mr President! I propose that the statement of objection 2 be adopted.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u403	Mr President! I support Mr Adlercreutz's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u404	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u405	Mr President! First of all, I would like to point out that this bill is rejected in accordance with protest 2. This government proposal is problematic from the point of view of equality between citizens, the credibility of legislation and environmental governance, predictability, clarity and the environment and health. Continuous legislative changes have undermined the credibility of environmental management. In practical work, it has been shown to be indifferent to counsel, regulations, and exhortations. We are therefore talking about waste water legislation, which has already been amended three times and the deadlines have been extended. Many have made the obligations contained in this legislation, but when there has been constant noise and complaints about this, people have come to the impression that this is the only way to change the legislation. However, it should be borne in mind that the shortcomings that people have experienced have been linked to this — that excessive cleaning operations have been carried out in areas which do not necessarily require it, or that there have been very few cleaning claims — these problems can be solved even under the current law. The separate problems relate to what the committee as a whole thought was very far-reaching that this distance of 100 metres does not fit in with this legislation, but that that measurement should be carried out at the end of the discharge pipe. — — — — I'll be there.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u406	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u407	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u408	Mr President! I am very pleased with the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on this regulation of waste water from sparsely populated areas. On the basis of this report, it is good for Parliament to take a final decision now on this matter. The rural sense won, and the proposal meets the expectations of the rural population, and this is also a very good decision for the environment. I am pleased that lessons have been learnt from the mistakes that have been made in the past. Thank you to all those people who were able to make a noise about regulatory shortcomings over the past few years. I was in charge of the government parties in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and I can say that there was still a lot of pressure in the committee. I am pleased that these details were refined so that there should now be no more disproportionate consequences. I will now go over the main points of this report. In other words, if the property is located no more than 100 metres from the waterfront or in important groundwater areas, the basic cleaning requirement must be met by 31 October 2019. In other areas, however, the improvement of the waste water management system per property should only be done when the property is doing more repair or modification work. This regulation is also technologically neutral and does not impose any particular device or method as a processing system. On application, the municipal environmental protection authority may grant a five-year derogation for a property less than 100 metres from the watercourse. The municipalities have a great deal of discretion in granting derogations. Each case is different and therefore no precise limits can be set. The conditions for granting an exemption have been relaxed by making the exemption criteria alternative. An exemption may be granted if the environmental load is to be considered to be significantly reduced or alternatively if the modification of the treatment system would be disproportionate due to high costs and technical complexity. In the assessment of disproportionateness, account is taken of the location of the property, the age, wealth and other social status of the property owner and those living on the property, such as sickness or unemployment. In some municipalities environmental protection regulations have been drawn up for properties built more than 100 metres from the watercourse before 2004. These provisions will be excluded until more repair or modification work is done on the property. However, it should be noted that the municipal authorities remain responsible and have the opportunity to address health or environmental pollution risks in accordance with current environmental protection legislation. This will ensure that waste water is properly managed everywhere. Protecting our waters is an extremely important objective and an issue, but burdening small private households with excessive consequences is not the right way to promote environmental protection. In committee, this decision was adopted by 10 to 4 votes. Representatives of the Centre Party, the People's Party and the Coalition Party supported the report, while representatives of the opposition would have maintained the current regulation. Indeed, I am pleased that the government parties heard and responded to the cry of the people of the countryside in a united manner.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u409	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u410	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u411	Mr President! I support Mr Myller's rejection proposal. I am not going to repeat all the points raised at the first reading of the law. I would just say that it is a very specific problem that the municipalities are deprived of the possibility of imposing stricter municipal standards for houses built before 2004, if they are further than 100 metres from the beach or if they are not in the groundwater area. The report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also states that the regions most affected are Uusimaa, Varsinais-Suomi and Ostrobothnia, where the need to improve the ecological status of local water bodies is greatest and where the load on water is most likely to end up. In other words, I really regret the fact that, in areas where sparsely populated areas are quite dense, village-like, municipalities are deprived of the possibility of imposing stricter standards than for buildings that were completed before 2004.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u412	Värderade Talman! Mrs Majala said here that the voice of reason prevailed and that this is an environmentally sound solution, a good proposal. No matter how hard I try, I can't come to the same conclusion. We're talking about this like we're talking sewage. Waste water — the purpose should be to find ways of extracting as much as possible of the waste water as far as possible in order to prevent it from entering the natural environment. If you think about the state of our waters, that's the biggest problem, isn't it? It's the one that's the hardest thing to get in touch with. According to this proposal, 200,000 measures are estimated not to be implemented. Everyone can wonder whether this is good for the environment. Consistency in legislation is generally seen as one virtue and equal treatment of people. Coherence with this waste water issue has not always been at its peak. This has been changed many times and is now being changed one more time. It suggests that in the future, if there are any proposals, if there are some demands, everyone can assume that they will be dropped in a few years' time and if I fail to do so, it will not matter either. As far as equality is concerned, those who took care of their affairs are now in a worse position, but society is, of course, grateful. This 100-metre limit, the fact that distance is determined by the outside wall, is one of the most headless points of this law. It has as much connection with reality as it does with the place of a garden swing or the color of the curtains. It has nothing to do with its load. I find it scandalous that the proposal does not define the limit on the basis of the distance from its demolition tube. On top of that, this is an interference in the autonomy of the municipalities, just as Mr Hassi said,
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u413	Mr President! This is, in fact, one of the few decisions that a rather short-term government had taken, but for too long this regulation was in force. More than 13 years ago this regulation was adopted, and although the previous speaker on the RKP strongly defended this, the then RKP Environment Minister, Jan-Erik Enestam, has already admitted that he, whether or not he used this form, was fooled in this matter that he rarely puts the blame on civil servants, but in this regard he said so. From the outset, it has been extraordinary that this level of regulation was introduced in 2003 by a regulation. This should definitely have been done at the level of the law and, for example, the rounds that have now been discussed from the point of view of the Constitution and others, and not in the way that this law was adopted at the time. For more than 13 years, people have done these measures and hundreds of unworkable, hundreds of useless investments — and hundreds, if not thousands, of cheated Finns. It is fortunate that the centre behind this repair movement has now also turned. This is something I myself raised there during my first parliamentary term in 2008-2009, but there was no correction at that time, and almost 10 years have passed since then. Fortunately, this Minister, led by Mr Tiilikainen, can now be rationalised and managed in a more efficient and sensible way. We've got a lot bigger environmental issues to deal with than these granny cabins.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u414	Mr President! It is good to continue with the speech by Mr Heinonen. Firstly, we really have much bigger and more important issues on the environmental side, which we should seriously address, that we can improve the environment and improve the situation in the Baltic Sea, which is what it is at the moment. Firstly, on these few points, which we in the committee also dealt with very much: there was a debate about whether it was 100 metres from the wall of the building or from the end of the demolition pipe, and we decided that 100 metres from the wall, because it is certainly not always known where the end of the demolition pipe is. We did not want the first ambiguity to begin to argue about where someone exists. The wall is very clearly there in a specific place.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u415	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u416	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u417	Mr President! Of course, each individual once wondered what interpretation of this law was sought when hundreds of unworkable devices were spoken of. Above all, it is a question of having the right information, advice and guidance. At some point it really seemed that this was turned into a money instrument for some, for example, when, according to the current law, there is a real possibility that such granary cottages, with one or two inhabitants, would not require any action at all. But everyone knows that it is also our own environment, our own living environment, whose health, of course, we are concerned about, and we must act accordingly. It was argued that the municipal environmental authorities should intervene in the event of problems. There are quite a few municipalities already where there is no municipal environmental authority or if there is, it may be one third or one quarter. In particular, there are hardly any more skilled officials in the larger municipalities. In other words, as far as this legislation is concerned, it has been primarily a question of having been interpreted too strictly from the point of view of equipment manufacturers and then a general idea of this kind was created that, when there is enough criticism, then nothing needs to be done. Now I am really concerned about the fact that the right to decide matters in its own region is being taken away from the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u418	Mr President! Mr Heinonen spoke understatedly about the cottages, and he is certainly not the only politician who has spoken about these cottages in this context. However, I would just like to remind you that, immediately after agriculture, the phosphorus load in our waters is the next largest. It is estimated that, two years ago, 13% of phosphorus discharges into water bodies came from sparsely populated areas. So about 1 in 7 tonnes of phosphorus to lush, feed blue algae and other algae and microbes in water bodies are derived from scattered settlements. This is not a small matter. This right of municipalities, which is now being taken up by the government, also imposes stricter rules on buildings built before 2004. Mrs Majala is quite right that conditions vary across Finland, that the soils are different, and that is precisely why it would have been justified to maintain this possibility for the municipalities. Of course, the possibility of ex post controls and individual property regulations, to which Mrs Maijala referred, remains, but it does not at least not mean that the municipality has the possibility of imposing certain requirements on village settlements in its territory and then has to be monitored and measured and laid down on a property-by-building basis.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u419	Mr President! To Mrs Myller, first of all, when you said that there are many municipalities without environmental protection authorities: every municipality must have an environmental protection authority, and in very many municipalities these tasks have been combined in such a way that there is a single environmental protection authority and that he is responsible for the areas of many municipalities, and that this is indeed the case. And now that we in this law have narrowed down to the fact that only the one who is less than 100 metres from the beach is the target, we can now focus on the targets and things that need to be corrected. Similarly, in those areas which are now so-called dry land areas where there are problems, we can concentrate on looking at these sites if there are problems. They can be addressed and there is no need to start bureaucratically looking at every property there being forced to apply for derogations. So, in my view, this will significantly reduce red tape in the management of this whole and we will then be able to concentrate on managing the state of the environment in reality. Mr Hassi then said about this how much waste water comes from the countryside and how much it causes problems for the Baltic Sea, so it is a good thing that we can now focus more closely on these points where the waste water is made up, where these problems come from. We have many other things in Finland, these individual items that should be corrected and specified, but I believe that this
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u420	And the last-looking speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u421	Mr President! Now the bar was set very high, but I try to do just that at least. Mr President! Personally, I am used to Finns wanting to take care of their own groundwater, such as their own mine, good care on the one hand, and that nearby lake and nearby water supply on the other. In other words, there has been a significant improvement here — I could probably talk about the last few years; I am afraid to talk about the decades, but I am afraid to talk about the last few years — in order to ensure that, for example, the well of my own leisure home or home remains clean and, on the other hand, also the nearby river, the nearby lake or the nearby cove of the sea. In other words, I believe that Finns are responsible for this. In fact, we have had the problems at the time of this waste water regulation that, now that this working traditional system was not accepted at all in the middle, the customers, people, were sold unworkable very technical equipment that did not work. Now is the situation that they are in the belief that they have good equipment there and in fact they do not work, for example because the loads are different from when the equipment is acquired and so away. Mr President! I'm not gonna miss the old waste water setting.
ParlaMint-FI_2016-12-19-ps-137.u422	Mr President! Thank you to the very critical opposition. Thanks to you, we have produced such a report, which has also taken very much of what you have just said into account, and I believe that through this cooperation we have achieved exactly the kind of package that was expected of us and what the rural population expected. - Thank you.
