ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Let's start today's briefing. Check your presence for starters, please! 19 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present; 82 members are absent. Today's Question Time will be attended by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps and Kaimar Karu, Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology. And as usual, according to the Rules of Procedure, there are two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to reply. And we will conduct Question Time in a standard format where, in addition to the question to be specified, you can also ask a question registered on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U2	So, let's get to the questioning for today's briefing. The first questioner is Indrek Saar, the question is addressed to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas: The subject is activities in emergency situations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Good health to all colleagues and our session followers! First of all, I want to congratulate the government: it took us about three weeks for the first elementary newsletter to reach the people's mailboxes to inform us that we have an emergency situation and how to behave in an emergency situation. We've talked about this many times here in Question Time. It took exactly three weeks for Helmen Kütt to raise this issue in the Committee on Social Affairs, and it was only then that the publication was finally completed. But I'm glad they finally made it. New ways of informing have been found. Our cell phones just received a message about how people should behave when moving outside. Thus, action has become more effective and faster. But my question relates to the fact that the Government of the Republic took further decisions on the crisis yesterday after a long debate. You had different estimates. Several scientists have stressed that if we really want to control this disease, the disease rate should fall below 1. At present, it is estimated at around 1.5 per cent. They also believe that, in order to achieve this, the measures should be significantly more comprehensive and clearer than those decided by the government yesterday. What were those considerations for you in the government, Prime Minister? Would you explain why such restrictions and not different?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U4	The first Vice-Chairman of the highly respected Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! Happy Question Time Watchers! First of all, I would like to thank the entire Riigikogu for this good word and for the cooperation that Mr Saar expressed here. This morning I had the opportunity to be at a video conference in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and I think first of all that the measures that you have created in the Riigikogu for the work of the various committees, also giving the government the opportunity, very often, to be on the various committees, are positive. Thanks for that. Now, I agree with what Mr Saar said: of course, strong health for all people of Estonia and also for members of the Riigikogu! This is the most important thing today: the health and life of people. Now, the truth is, when we're talking about notification, as far as I know, SMS really went out with an emergency message: '25. From 1 March, the public place is allowed to be alone or alone, not 2 metres away from the others. Stay home and avoid contact! Crisis.ee and 1247. ' You indicated this coefficient that it should be less than 1. Indeed, it was also mentioned yesterday when Professor Irja Lutsar gave an overview of the situation with his scientific council set up at the crisis committee. He said in this way that the measures that have been taken in the country have certainly contributed to preventing the spread of the Corona virus. But he also, along with his Scientific Council, said that additional measures were needed, additional steps. And, basically, about all the measures proposed by the Scientific Council, we had a debate yesterday over several hours. Finally, we asked for the opinion of Professor Lutsar on the measures that we decided to implement. He supported these measures. Now for this coefficient. It's a modeler's creation. Irja Lutsar said that they would continue to work on the graphs and that they would continue to work on this coefficient. He felt that measures to prevent the virus, such as restrictions on movements in shopping centres, were certainly reasonable. According to him, it is also reasonable to have a maximum of two people together and a maximum of two metres. There must be no other people nearer. He was very supportive of it. Yesterday, too, many closing decisions related to certain amusement sites, such as bowling and bowling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U5	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U6	Thank you! Did I get what you just said right now: that basically all the measures proposed by the Scientific Council were decided by the government? Would you like to clarify what measures were taken that do not fall under this phrase 'in principle all these measures', but what else did the Scientific Council propose that could be done? And another important question is: are you moving in the direction that the government has specific milestones, by which time we want to get to that point with the disease times, so that we can actually begin to ease the constraints arising from the emergency situation so that we can return to our daily, normal rhythm of life as much as possible so that we can restart our economy to a normal degree? Have you set any goals? Now it seems that the attitude is as the classic says: one day at a time, let's see what the events of yesterday are, and then we'll make the next decision. Are there any intermediate stages that have somehow been fixed, or are you planning to fix them and then there's some sort of clear action plan that society as a whole can understand? What are the efforts we should make to get the emergency situation under control as soon as possible and at the same time not to endanger the health of as many people as possible? I understand that the government is also saying that the first goal is still that the spread of the virus should slow down as quickly as possible and that there would be as little damage to health as possible to the virus. Or do you have a different idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U7	The government's position on preventing the corona virus is to do everything possible to get the brakes on and over the spread of the virus as soon as possible. Then we can return to the normal rhythm of life, we can do everything we can to get the economy back on track so that people can work to make normal living in educational institutions work every day. Are there such very specific numbers as you asked? Did the Scientific Council, for example, propose that in one week's time we get there in two weeks' time and, I don't know, in three weeks' time? No, that kind of numbers, I guess, no one's going to be able to propose today. Nor can it be demanded of the Scientific Council that you tell us now where we must be in two or three days' time. There was talk of this, and Professor Lutsar said very clearly that the question is not one or two days; the question is not one or two weeks either; this period is certainly longer. The period during which this virus must be suppressed with different restrictions is certainly longer. And these limitations, this discomfort in our daily lives really comes, as decided yesterday. But the whole period of the corona virus should be as short as possible and return to normal life, also in economic terms, to normal life in terms of education as quickly as possible. You asked whether measures were also proposed yesterday that did not go under this phrase, you took me by word of mouth, 'in principle we supported those positions that were raised'. It cannot be said that the Scientific Council specifically pointed out that this and this and this measure were still necessary. I think Professor Lutsar very nicely explained that since there is more than one person in the Council, there are different assessments, there are different ideas. He brought them all on the table. To state the name of a particular person for each thought, I do not think it would add anything to this discussion at the moment. At the last meeting, I asked the Scientific Council to examine whether shopping centres should be closed. The Scientific Council said they'd support it. There was also the question of whether the use of waterdrops should be banned, and this is what they supported. Catering establishments, closing bars at 10 o'clock, they supported this. It was also a question of whether a separate time could be set for older people, such as 60+, to visit food stores, say, from morning to twelve, on this point, the Scientific Council said that they would not support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U8	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Yesterday, when you announced these new restrictions, both social media and any network became relatively busy and a number of questions arose. I've got a chance to pass on people's questions to you right now. One concerns the possible meeting of two people two metres away and the other concerns, for example, the continuation of beauty services outside shopping centres. This raised a number of questions and misunderstandings. Is this measure fully thought out and will we achieve the goal that you and the scientists have discussed? That was the first question. The second question that has arisen in the last week is that farmers are concerned about whether seasonal workers can be used for spring work. This actually means that, if these work is not done, there will be no harvest in the autumn, and it may happen that the aid measures that the State must also implement in terms of the financial package will prove to be greater than they could be. These are the two questions that I wanted to put to you now in the context of this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U10	Thank you. Yeah, there was a pretty long discussion yesterday, really, about the hairdressers, the beauty salons. Here's the answer. At first, we focused on places where many people are gathering at once and where there is therefore a greater likelihood of infection. Shopping centres and beauty salons must ensure the safety of their own health and the health of their customers when providing the service. It must also be understood that beauty salon services, for example, be a hairdresser service, are services that people use on a regular basis and therefore there is a risk that when they are closed, people will decide to invite a specialist to their home, for example, for these procedures. At the moment, we think that it is safer to carry out these procedures in beauty salons and hairdressers, where all the disinfection and other safety requirements apply. So that was the point of consideration. Now for migrant labour. The successor, Mr Ivari Padar, a member of the Riigikogu, has registered it as a fifth question, but I will also answer your question. Migrant workers continue to play a very important role in agriculture. Due to the specific nature of the sector, there is a great deal of seasonal work in agriculture, including gardening, which needs to be done for a limited period of time, and the local workforce alone cannot be taken into account when carrying out these work. Businesses also need to hire seasonal workers for these jobs. This leads to the need to use seasonal workers. In agriculture, together with the processing industry, about 3500 people are needed for the season. The exact estimate, of course, varies from year to year, and this year is currently unknown. Applications have been submitted in this area around 750 and probably also in 2020 but usually the peak time for applications is March-April and will not be dealt with initially. The specific nature of seasonal work is low wages and the main reason for hiring foreigners is that there are not many people in Estonia who want to work with this salary. Now, what has the Ministry of Rural Affairs proposed? They have proposed the creation of a central system for the rapid acquisition of temporary labour. For example, people who have been sent on unpaid leave from other companies or are currently unemployed, but of course they must not be sick people, they must be healthy. So, with these, let's say, opportunities and alternatives, the ongoing work is carried out in both the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, but also, of course, in the Government as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U11	Thank you. I will finish the discussion on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U12	Let's move on, second question. Artist Taavi Rõivas, the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas: what can we do to expand the testing of COVID-19? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U13	Thank you very much, Mr. Taavi in the garment. First of all, I want to repeat some important facts. relating to testing. I would certainly like to emphasise them. First of all, as one of the measures to improve testing capabilities, we have done that, on the weekend when family doctors are not working, we will give the possibility, either specifically, to the family doctor's counselling line or to regional medical centres, to make it clear today or at the latest tomorrow, that they can write test referrals by telephone call. I think it's very important. I actually consider this important during the evenings of working days when family doctors are not working. After all, they do not constantly read to us, and many who are on the list of family doctors do not have a family doctor's mobile phone to call him and tell him that the problem is big and that I need a referral. So solutions definitely need to be offered. Now, what have we done to get more tests done? Just this morning, we discussed the commission of the Government of the Republic in order to order further tests in addition to what currently exists in Estonia. Synlab, Medicum and Qvalitas are working with us on the test, and we want to order at least 100,000 more tests. Let's put it to work tonight. If you ask when it will materialise, I say as soon as possible, given the increase in border closures that we see in the world. I am not just talking about what is happening at borders, we are seeing in different countries that the availability of the necessary resources is beginning to decline and we need to be as fast as possible. That is why that decision was also made. Now for your claim that virologists want mass testing. I gotta be honest with you, I'm a little embarrassed because I don't think you're recommending mass testing. I know the doctors have rather said that mass testing doesn't need to be done. However, if we are talking about an overall increase in testing as a principle, it seems to me that today, however, most say that it needs to be done. The government has always said that we need to increase the number of tests. This is one, I would say, the most concrete indicators, when we are also talking about getting out of this crisis. This may provide a basis for predicting when we will emerge from the crisis. And what I think is the basis for this is that when we see that the number of infected people as a proportion of the population of the country is starting to decline, that a breakpoint has arisen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U14	Thank you. I might have to make a little bit of a clarification. I didn't use the word'mass-testing'. It is more a question of testing all those people who have symptoms and who have the family doctor's suspicion that he may have the virus. This has indeed been said publicly by a number of highly respected virologists and academics, and I have spoken to them myself. Now, if we come to the next step, let's see what we can do for the future so that our medical system has the maximum capacity. We know that the forecasts made by Estonian scientists are true, because of the rather incomplete information, the forecast range is quite large, but we do know the order of magnitude, which will most likely happen in two weeks or three weeks' time. If we take this knowledge, what is your, say, best knowledge, what else can we do to increase the capacity of Estonian health care institutions? Are there any specific devices missing? Are there people missing? Again, is there money missing? Now we still have a few weeks, logically speaking, if we are to follow developments in other countries until we reach the "peak," and we must use this time together as wisely as possible. Is there a message about how the Riigikogu can also contribute or the Estonian public can help in addition to the fact that, of course, we avoid excessive contact and try to prevent the spread of the disease? But how can we help to increase the preparedness of the Estonian health care system?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question, yes, is that, according to current guidelines, only a relatively small number of people with symptoms can be tested. I understand perfectly well that treatment does not differ in the case of flu-like symptoms, depending on whether the human test is positive or negative, but the virologists say that there is little reason to doubt their words that more precise testing would help to slow down the virus, help to make more precise decisions, more precise predictions, so that we know what the situation may be in two or three weeks. It is also understandable that resources are limited. In the health field, it always tends to be that way, and it probably is now. I do not want to blame it at all and ask why we have these limited to a distance from it. I would like to look to the future and ask very constructively what else we can do in the next few weeks to increase the testing capacity to meet the wishes of virologists and many other scientists to better prevent the virus from progressing on this basis. I've come to realize that lab capacity isn't a bottleneck. For example, the University of Tartu and many others have offered their help to significantly increase the ability to perform analyses. Well, I believe that money cannot be an obstacle either, or if it is an obstacle, the Riigikogu can come to the aid of the Riigikogu. I am interested in what is the specific obstacle that prevents us from increasing the number of tests. What can we do together to reduce this obstacle in the next few weeks and also to give people psychological confidence? Let's be honest, there are plenty of people who would like to take this test and who have not been able to. This is also an important aspect.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U16	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U17	Thank you very much for this constructive question. I fully agree that we must now be not in different political parties, but in one political party. And this party is Estonia, most seriously said. I want to say that I really feel very good cooperation with the Riigikogu, the various committees, throughout the spread of this virus. In your question too, the concern is how we can do more together. I think it's very positive. Now, in the last 24 hours, 768 tests have been taken, as far as I know. Like I said, we want to raise this capacity to 1,000 tests. What will definitely remain in force? I will certainly remain subject to the requirement that there must still be a referral from a family doctor. And as I said to you in reply to the previous question, I think when a person has symptoms, it must be easier to receive a referral from a family doctor. What do I mean by "slighter"? As I said, it must be possible to get it on the weekends and also on the working days after 6 p.m. I think that these steps need to be taken. Now this question, which is now the necks of the bottle and how we can work together more. Undoubtedly, one large bottleneck is personal protective equipment, which is a very large bottleneck. This morning we discussed this, and at 6 p.m. the Government of the Republic Commission is regrouping to discuss precisely the issue of personal protective equipment. It's probably even more of a bottleneck than a lack of tests. While we have been able to move forward in cooperation between the state and the private sector, I see that there has been a step forward, but personal protective equipment is still a very big problem. In particular, I am talking about FFP3 masks, but certainly also FFP2 and FFP1 masks. There actually seem to be huge deficits everywhere. What can be done here? You can also apply all the national opportunities we have. We have a specific company in Estonia that manufactures FFP3 masks. Yesterday there was a meeting between the people of the State Chancellery and this company. Today we have decided that we will order 10 million FFP3 masks in the next few weeks. We are trying to make sure that this company can increase its capacity, which automatically means creating an additional exchange for them. Now, for which I am asking a great deal for the assistance of the Riigikogu, it is that we must start working on an additional budget relating to the package of economic measures, including financial resources. I sincerely ask the Riigikogu to hold an additional session next week so that we can make the first, second and third readings of the draft as a matter of urgency during the period 6. April.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U18	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! Some time ago, both you and the Minister of Social Affairs actually admitted that we must hold back by testing because we must have a certain margin. What is adequate in times of crisis, and there is nothing wrong with that in itself. But it came kind of late. The public statements of reasons were different. I think, and many others have said, that it is very important to be honest with people in managing the crisis in order to have the confidence that is also needed in shaping people's behaviour. Another thing I have not understood about testing is that there are also signals now that people with obvious signs cannot be tested, although most family doctors are currently listening to them over the phone. Of course, it is difficult to diagnose in this way, so it is in any case a difficult situation for both sides. But some experts have said that we need all kinds of knowledge. If a person has any signs of this disease, even knowing that he was not infected, it is important for medical science in a broader sense. I think the day before yesterday, Minister Aab was in the "Actual Camera" and he said that it would be pretty easy to order the plane, but the necessary quantities just can't be reached. What's the situation with these things, really? We have seen that many planes from China have landed large loads in some European countries. What's the question with the equipment anyway? How far are we to conclude these contracts or calculate the quantities?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U20	Thank you. First of all, yes, we have said this before, and that continues to be our position that a minimum of 8 000 tests must be kept in the state reserve. It has not been changed and it exists in the country. I guess I'm not wrong to say that the private sector's capacity in the coming weeks is in the order of 80,000 tests. In addition to that, as I said in reply to Mr. Clothes, we have ordered more 100,000 tests. So it's not exactly behind the tests. Now, you asked about a particular person who has symptoms, but he can't test. Once again, it has been agreed with the family doctors that we need a referral from the family doctor. And that doesn't mean that when you have symptoms, you get to test a person who's up from a certain age. All people who have symptoms and who have received a referral from a family doctor will be tested. Whether or not a family doctor issues a referral is neither yours nor mine to say. It's still a medical question, a doctor's question, and a doctor's competence. You claimed that large planes coming from China with different loads will land in Europe. Yeah, there's been a lot of information in the press. Now, for example, I have been asked specifically that a plane like this landed in Lithuania and how it is in Lithuania. I've received information from the Minister of Social Affairs that there were a few dozen thousand masks on the plane that it wasn't a very large shipment. We have asked for masks internationally. If we have said our prayer that we want masks, it is said that we want tests. That no one has any tests or personal protective equipment over tonight. At 6:00 today, as I said in reply to Mr Clothes, we will go on specifically with the procurement and orders of personal protective equipment. At the same time, many people offer their help. The private sector also offers its help. However, the problem is certainly that it is necessary to determine whether the person offering this aid is actually behind a Chinese producer, for example, whether it is actually possible to obtain these personal protective equipment. It is clear that, when it comes to China, the situation is already such that advance payments must be made, and then the goods in good time can arrive within four weeks. A few decades ago, I also asked the Minister of Public Administration to communicate directly with our ambassador in China via the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to say that we are going out on this advance very specifically to get personal protection from China.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U22	Let's go to question three. The questioner is Katri Raik, the question is about the impact of the emergency situation on Estonian education by the Minister of Education and Research, Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U23	Thank you. Good Riigikogu! Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Indeed, these first weeks and a half have been difficult for most schools to build up digitally and remotely to the right extent. If we turn back time a little bit, then there was only one day for all the preparation before teaching in this form throughout Estonia in the application. Friday was the one and only day of information sharing. If you look back at this week, first, yes, of course you can join all of our praises. Everyone's been really, really good this week. During this week, a great deal has changed in knowledge, skills, how to use something. The private sector, which has provided these digital services, has made major adjustments. It has been adapted to the infrastructure, since the conditions of the schools' computers were distributed, many people were able to take home their work computers. There have been a lot of private initiatives, for example, for every child with a computer, etc. Why is this important? Because we started by first having to find out if people even have Internet packages, whether teachers have Internet access. Actually, we started with some very earthly stuff. It was very well arranged that we had environments. We actually knew how to use both the eKool and the Studio. We knew how to use them and communicate, but there were a lot of new systems. The question was about advice and support. Firstly, in the field of Ministry of Education and Research, HITSA is the one that has been invited to do so. There have been seven different seminars in HITSA, if I could quote, as I quickly managed to grab this memo. Average viewing varies from 50,000, 33000, 25,000 rounds, either direct or follow-up. HITSA and HTM have also put forward frequently asked questions. The Ministry of Education has gathered up the questions that will come. As you know, the Ministry has its own hotline that answers all the calls. We're trying to keep a number of specialists on the phone line at once, so if any parent wants to talk a little more, the phone won't be stuck for long. These are such direct measures. What we do in the Ministry of Education ourselves is that every day we try to be in touch with all the local authorities or with some of them where we see that problems or obstacles have arisen. We are also trying to communicate with the private sector, as the private sector increasingly offers additional services and other opportunities. It is important to us that the information is uniform and accessible to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U24	Thank you. First of all, it's very important to understand that we're all in the same information room. All midterm students who are not in the ninth and 12th grade can complete this school year on the basis of current grades. National level papers, harmonised control surveys, self-assessments at national level will not take place this spring. This is important information because, as we saw today at the electronic meeting of the Committee on Culture, this is still being asked all the time. And the concern is, for example, in the third grade, whether we now have a blacklist for teachers who have not been able to acquire distance learning so quickly. Some children do not have parents at all times. We are trying to answer all these questions on a case-by-case basis, but the general principle is that the state will not carry out state-level work and other important assessments this spring. Now, the main issue for 9th grade students today is how to complete upper secondary schools and vocational schools. If in previous years, for example, Treffner or Tallinn Reaalkool had already completed their upper secondary school classes, it has not been possible to take these exams or tests this year. We expect and hope that all the special measures implemented will work and that we will at least partially regain the opportunity to learn in the normal way from the beginning of May. In this case, the entrance tests for upper secondary school will take place in May, just as there are school websites outside. They've already set their dates. In general, it says either the beginning of May or the middle. In case this is not possible, we have also sought other opportunities in cooperation with upper secondary schools. Does this mean an individual distance interview, whether it means a slightly more harmonised admission? It is very important to know. Since I have 37 seconds left, I'm gonna try to say something more quickly. When it comes to graduation, it is important to understand how much depends on the emergency situation at the end of both the ninth and the 12th grade. Many 12th grade graduates wish to enter university or other higher education institutions and universities are equally prepared. If in May it is possible to move forward with the study normally, all the exams will fit into the system and the universities will take this into account. But then it must be taken into account that the university entrance and state examination process will be transferred to July. If that is not possible, we will deal with it by universities and other institutions of higher education, deciding what to do in this case, how to proceed. I assure you, this is also the information we collect all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U25	Good minister! My first question is about distance learning. Our schools have been very good, our teachers have been very good, we have done the right thing by putting resources into the development of e-learning in Estonia. The Ministry also has to be commended now. And yet there have been problems with the implementation of distance learning. In particular, too much burden is highlighted for students, but secondly, not all environments are suitable for students of all ages. They say there's been a lot of information, but it's not always structured. What are the specific plans of the Ministry of Education and Research to advise parents, teachers and students? How to share information centrally and in a structured way? And what kind of authority could be involved in sharing such information? Is it the Ministry? What will happen in concrete terms in the next two weeks to support distance learning?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U26	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U27	Good minister! You have explained in the media the postponement of state examinations, but the question still persists. We do not know how long the state of emergency will last, but still: will the state exams come and when they do, will all the state exams? What about college admissions? What happens if I can't take a state exam this year, but I want to go to college next year instead of next year, then I'm in a different situation than next year high school graduates? Please explain one more time! There are many questions relating to state examinations and entrance exams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U28	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary! I will come back to the first question of the previous questioner, but I will make it narrower and more specific. I have been asked and, in fact, it has been discussed in public media and social media. I understand that there are two factors that cause very serious problems in distance learning because they coincide. First class students, first and second grade especially, generally independently do not study. They want guidance, being on the side, and sometimes they get technically in trouble. Another aggravating factor is when parents are at work. Whether they are away from home or they are busy working at home, these options are different. These two things are very difficult to put together. Even when a parent is at home, he needs to do his job, and there are people who are now doing very important work. And then it happens that the teaching takes place in the evening and tends to go late into the night, which is not good for working people or children. Then learning gets so hectic and very nervous. Well, let's say there's a problem. And I have also heard many times that parents are often between two fires. They see that they would like to slow down or do something a little different, but other parents in the same class are doing very well because they do not have much domestic work to do. And those first so-called votes will be cast down. How can we solve this problem? How do you approach it so you don't get this frustration? Such a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U30	Indeed, this problem I do not have to appreciate very far from, I have four schoolchildren at home and I understand very well what such a very high expectation means. So let us come to all these aspects. The first thing that we have centrally signalled, and which has also received a great deal of criticism, is evaluation. At least in the first two weeks, please give feedback to your child or, generally, to your parent. Rather, describe how the child's efforts have gone, whether their environment has been understood. In fact, at least at the top of primary school, we're starting to appreciate whether he gets the Zoom environment loaded or the meeting room open. Very often it is not possible to assess knowledge with a grade, but rather we talk about the student's electronic skills. Therefore, in the initial phase, we gave the schools a guideline that please give descriptive feedback, do not give a grade during this period, rather acknowledge and support the students. As you said very rightly, some parents said that this is the worst thing, because then the child will stop trying. Well, there are different opinions. Now, there is indeed a suggestion that, for example, primary classes, the first three classes should not be in school at all, that their studies could be stopped for a while. After all, the study takes place for nine years, while they will be studying in the coming years. I do not support this idea. If we sum up this first week, I can tell you that in the second half of this first week, the decisions already got a little better. Indeed, in the first few days we received feedback that at times e-learning was almost absurd. The first-class kid had to upload and download, change, film himself, etc. This really assumed that he had two parents next door and one of them with IT education. Now the situation is returning to normal. However, there is still a long way to go to find the necessary balance. I have to say about my ninth grader boyfriend, I have his so-called screen time, and when we put together last week, his average screen time came in 14 hours a day. I don't think it's right. It must be found as a more normal solution that in the meantime problems can be solved on paper, in the meantime you can really read, maybe listen to music. After all, there are a variety of measures that do not have to be all tasks on the screen. We have a request to give smaller students a full week or two weeks' work so that the parent can send his child to read at some point when he knows that there is generally a more intensive period of study. Maybe it's good to draw or do other handy activities in the meantime. And mathematics maybe put together for a few days. I have to admit, I did math with my first-class kid on Saturday because I can't be with him on a weekday because of my work. We have offered such approaches. And the other solution is that we're trying to give more broader problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U31	Minister, thank you. I will stop answering that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U32	And let's keep going. The fourth questioner is Annely Akkermann, corresponding to Kaimar Karu, Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology. Subject: Crisis response measures. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U33	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U34	Thank you. As far as the first point is concerned, as I said earlier, EAS is trying to be as flexible as possible. We have a call for entrepreneurs who have concerns about some specific projects: turn to the EAS and explain exactly what the problem is. Looking at what has happened so far both in EAS and in KredEx, I can say that everything will be in place, including improved measures and concrete measures. In other words, if the entrepreneur has a problem, please contact the EAS immediately. Together, a solution will be found that can later be used for other companies and other projects. As far as rental costs are concerned, this is a free market business in which the state or government will not intervene directly. There are, of course, different measures in KredEx, both direct loans and loan guarantees. However, the first step could be to talk to your bank if there are problems in paying rents. If necessary, the bank will include KredEx if the company really is in a situation where the bank will make sure that they do not give more money or they will not grant them any loans at all. So the bank and KredEx are working together. Yes, as I say, everyone has loans to pay, and everyone is going through a difficult time in business. Of course, I can't tell those who collect rents that they may have to pay their loans in the same way for the next three months or six months. But the call for entrepreneurs, but why not also for local authorities and public authorities, of course, is that, if it is possible not to take rent for some time or to take reduced rent, which has already been done in some places, these measures could be implemented more than can be done to help businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U35	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U36	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable questioner, thank you for your question. The first thing I would like to say is that I would like to thank the entrepreneurs who have addressed both EAS, MKM and KredEx directly with their questions and comments in order to know what concerns they have had. Among other things, they really have the same concerns. More specifically, in reply to the question, I confirm that it is possible to extend the current projects for all EAS measures. There are some projects where it was not possible to extend earlier, it will be reviewed so that the extension will also be possible there. With regard to small ports in particular, there is no restriction on the extension of the measure for small ports and projects can be carried out until 31 August 2023. So it's a little bit easier with them. Within the framework of specific projects, we promise to change the activities of the project once it has become clear that the objectives of the project could be better achieved by other activities. And if the objectives are not achieved, the EAS will be able to take into account different factors, including those arising from the spread and effects of the corona virus. That will undoubtedly be the case. However, the aim of the EAS is to be as flexible as possible and to meet businesses as much as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I actually like in this package that the situation is compared to the same month last year, not April or March. However, according to the initial plans, employment support will only cover the months of March, April and May, when, for example, the domestic tourism season has not yet begun, but bitter preparations should take place. However, it is not the kind of companies that are still making their investments this year that are going to be excluded from attention. Investments made under various European Union programmes, such as small ports in Saaremaa, which have been closed several weeks ago, where construction has already stopped because of the emergency situation and there are two risks: firstly, the object is not completed by the deadline, and secondly, it is not able to complete what was promised in the project. These promises can be either the number of jobs created or the number of visitors visited. I think that such problems are faced by many project managers, both in the non-profit sector and in companies. Is EAS ready to make concessions to such projects, to the European Union or to national projects, even in terms of time limit and also in terms of their first metrics?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U38	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U39	Thank you very much. Those companies and associations that carry out projects in the European Union also have concerns that payments of approved declarations will take place within six to nine months and if the declaration is made within a quarter, the previous three months, it may take a whole year to pay out. That is what these companies cover from their own resources, and they have also put all their creditworthiness down there. If EAS were able to process these payment applications more quickly, these associations would be able to help themselves very much better. And another question. One important cost component for catering and personal services companies is the rental cost. Are you planning any measures to cover the rental costs during the quarantine period, which may in itself be either a guarantee or a loan or a reasonable interest rate for late payment, if the owner of the rental space would require this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! The Rural Promotion Foundation and KredEx are two major activities that will have to distribute the government's possible crisis package. The first part of my question is whether you are cooperating and communicating with each other so as not to work twice or to map Estonia in some places twice. How do you share this segment so that the money reaches the most needy and is divided and justified on the basis of clear criteria, so that no one really wants to mitigate the effects of wrong decisions taken in their business by oppressing the virus? And the other side: have you discussed with each other that many operators who communicate have called the announcement of a state of emergency and restrictive measures by the government as force majeure and consequently try to withdraw from contracts or whatever? What is your position, and have you discussed this problem with lawyers and lawyers?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U41	Thank you for your question. As regards cooperation with the Rural Development Foundation, cooperation will take place. But KredEx and MES share money in various measures. In the areas in which the MES operates, KredEx will not go to KredEx and vice versa. But cooperation is ongoing, and these measures are also being developed in cooperation. So it doesn't exactly fit in. With regard to mitigating the impact of wrong decisions, if you look at it more broadly, it is inevitable that, among other things, those companies that may not be able to do so are companies whose business model may not be sustainable, among other things, will receive aid in the form of a grant or a loan guarantee. This is undoubtedly a risk, but it is in a situation where we are trying to avoid mass redundancies, where we are trying to minimise the impact of measures on businesses and workers as much as possible, an acceptable risk. That's up to the moment it turns out that abuse is going massive. We can always change the measures. And both on the side of the MES and on the side of the KredEx, just as I mentioned earlier, on the side of the EAS, decisions on the extension of the deadlines can be reviewed if it turns out that there is nothing really coming from there. As far as force majeure is concerned, I am not a lawyer, and I am not going to comment on it in very detailed terms, but it has been dealt with. This has been considered in the decision-making process and in the setting of restrictions. In particular, force majeure in the various sectors has been dealt with in a slightly different way, much also depends on specific agreements. But the subject has been discussed, it has been taken into account. That's what I can tell you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U42	Today's fifth questioner is Ivari Padar, the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas about migrant labour. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U43	Mr Prime Minister! You have also partly answered my question when Mr Kruus asked his supplementary question. But yes, undoubtedly health care and health management are a priority today. At the same time, it is clear that the next issue is definitely feeding your people, agriculture. And now there's a problem. Both the Chamber of Agriculture, the Farmers' Association and the Gardening Union have addressed you yesterday and today with the issue of the external labour force already used in agriculture. One thing is what you said when you answered the previous question: that, in any case, the people of Estonia who remain in work must be taken into account and mobilised as much as possible. But there are also faster issues that need to be resolved in this case, and one is that we have a contingent of Ukrainian workers who, while having residence permits, have completed or are about to end their work permits. So they can be on the territory of the Republic of Estonia, but they cannot work. What are the sensible solutions, how can this situation be resolved, so that those who are learned in Estonian agriculture can also work legally? It is also known that the Police and Border Guard Board has already fined these transgressors relatively operationally. This is a specific issue that needs to be resolved very quickly and sensibly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U44	Good questioner, thank you! Thank you for this very topical question. I have already answered one questioner on this subject, and I am not going to go over it. But yes, spring work is largely at the door, some already in hand, and the hand is needed. This problem, as you say, is a residence permit, but a work permit has ended or is about to end, is a very serious challenge and a major problem in the agricultural sector. As you said, we need very quick solutions here. The answer is yes, we do. I think we are discussing this issue at the COVID-19 Commission of the Government of the Republic of this week and thinking about how to solve it. I'm aware of that information, of the problem. I know that, as I have already said, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Rural Affairs are developing different solutions. But I think a government decision is also needed here. So the answer to you is that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, we will come to this issue in the Government of the Republic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U45	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! It is nice to hear from yourself that you are dealing with this subject, but in this context I would like to ask this question: could it also be possible to think in these discussions that, when it comes to avoiding infection, to prevent our country from coming and working with sick people, would it be possible to apply any prior guarantees and quarantines to them in a particular sector and based on the depth of the crisis or the current need? After all, we want to be convinced that they are not infected, perhaps they should be tested and given priority at some point in terms of health, not just in terms of the economy. The idea that I tried to convey earlier was, in fact, that maybe we need to spend a little more on this now than we would like, but then we should pay less for additional aid or less on subsidies to help this business sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U47	Thank you for this question. Yeah, theoretically, you can definitely do what you say. Well, countries usually let people out of the country. In a democratic country, it is quite difficult to say that the exit is restricted or terminated. But you could choose some sectors and talk about some kind of labour income. After all, we are talking, and we all understand that Mr Ivari Padar was referring to third countries in relation to the European Union, Ukraine and perhaps some other countries. In answer to your question, it is possible, in theory, that a person will come here, as you said, in quarantine and then head for the post. As we stand at the moment, we will not allow such solutions, but, as I said to Mr Ivari Padari, this week, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, we will be discussing this issue. This issue is extremely topical and nature demands its own. Nature is already showing warmer weather, spring work is about to begin, some have already begun, and there is, of course, a need to solve the problem of workers' deficit. I also think that, in the current emergency situation, it is certainly very sensible to also review those sectors where people have lost their jobs. Perhaps it is conceivable that these people are going to do some other work in the field of agriculture, for example. This is, of course, when it is logistically conceivable, when their skills are sufficient, etc. But the solution has to be found, and there are many theoretical solutions. There is a need for concrete answers here, and I think we can, as I also answered Ivari Padar's question, work through this question in the coming days and give a concrete signal on how to solve it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U48	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U49	The next question, No 6, is presented by Urve Tiidus and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U50	Thank you. Prime Minister! In recent reports, the countries that took the threat very seriously from the outset and acted on the principle of more and quickly than less and calmly have been successful in stopping the Coronavirus pandemic. Now that all the illusions are gone, that we're missing this COVID-19, that it's just another flu that's retreating in the spring and there's no need to test it all, now that these illusions are gone, fortunately, some of the toughest decisions have been made in managing the crisis situation. That must be acknowledged. In the last few days, you have stressed several times that the spread of the virus is getting worse, that we are facing more difficult times. Scientists estimate that there will be a shortage of intensive care facilities in Estonia in a few weeks. Which of your orders and actions, as emergency manager, must ensure that these bad forecasts are not fulfilled? You have already dealt with this subject in some ways in an earlier response, but what about now, in particular, to sum it up?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U51	Thank you, good questioner. I think that none of the steps we have taken today, either in the Government of the Republic or with members of the Special Committee on the Fight against COVID-19 of the Government of the Republic, or the steps that I have taken as head of emergency or which have issued orders, none of them have been in any way such as to prevent the spread of this virus. Everything has to do with it, and only with it, to do everything possible to prevent the spread of the virus. What do virologists say, doctors, professors? The most important thing is to avoid as many close contacts as possible. The question is whether these decisions have been taken in good time or whether they are late. The problem is, as Professor Lutsar said yesterday, we don't really know the virus in the world. It's a new virus, we don't know his behavior, it's just learning to live, learning to fight it. Some countries have taken steps faster, others have perhaps chosen a slightly different path. I consider it most important that there has been a very good working environment and a working atmosphere in cooperation with the Riigikogu, within the government and within the committee. I see that Estonian authorities have come to help. I fully join the words of both Kaimar Karu and Mailis Reps that, be it the business or educational sector, it is not extraordinary when an entrepreneur writes that they have a prepared list of people who would be willing to come to the state to help any employment law or job front. Or also how we have been able to bring learning through our digital solutions to the e-learning path as much as possible. But yes, the main one, if you ask what this main step is to limit close contacts. That's what I think is most important. We started with the first steps. Today we say there is a 2+2 rule: maximum of two people with a minimum of two meters away. I think these have been the right steps. It was very good to hear that yesterday Professor Lutsar also said that the restrictions were being made in the right direction. What I said yesterday before the press conference, I would also like to say in this honourable Riigikogu: it is clear that we live in our society in combating this virus, we live in the sense of our society. If we hold it, I think we're gonna beat this outbreak.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U52	Urve Tiidus, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U53	Thank you. Prime Minister! The scarcity of defence equipment is not just a problem for Europe and Estonia; the same is currently the case in the US. But that doesn't comfort anyone. There are signs that something has started to move, masks are being produced and hopefully they will also be brought in, but still not enough to give full certainty. The joint procurement of countries led by the European Commission will only give hope in a month's time. The northern neighbours are very concerned about the potential for a large increase in the intensive medical needs of corona patients, and we do not have too much of this capacity. Would you please say something that would affect them, in your previous reply, you also referred to them, who still think that social isolation and distance are a game and a recommendation that can be ignored? Secondly, please make sure that Estonia has the ability to treat, that doctors and nurses have sufficient protection and that crisis managers have all the competent advisors.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U54	Thank you. I thank you very much, frankly, for raising this issue from this angle. I understand that the Riigikogu, in cooperation with national broadcasting, has probably made a transmission today in ETV2 with sign language translation. About the part of the question where you said whether it was a game: if some talk on social media or wherever, that the rule of 2+2 or the whole of this corona is one big game, I would say it's highly malicious. This isn't a game! This is a serious situation, a serious situation all over the world. As I said in the past, these uncomfortable steps are not taken simply; there is a very clear reason for them. The reason is to overcome this outbreak as soon as possible. We see it hit the economy. Any decision taken by the emergency manager or the Commission, in the short term, hits the economy, that is understandable. People stay home, they may lose their jobs. But I say in this way that the more concrete clear decisions and restrictions, the shorter this period will be, and the sooner we can return to normality, including economic life. In the first half of your question, you brought out personal protective equipment. I have already answered here and I will continue to say that, if you specifically point out one question among the means of achieving the objective of stopping the outbreak of the virus, that is, I would say, the sharpest. Personal protective equipment is today the most acute issue in all sectors: frontline, i.e. medicine, police, Defence League, service sector, also entrepreneurship, local authorities. I also want to pay tribute here. There are not many Estonian companies that can do this, but as I said, Corpowear is a specific company that produces FFP3 masks. They are the subject of a special agreement, an accelerated agreement to increase their number of shifts from one to two in order to increase their production volume to about three times a week. They'll be able to do it in two or three weeks. This is a very big victory for the FFP3 masks. But that's not the whole solution, we need all personal protective equipment, FFP2-masks, surgical masks, gloves, dresses, goggles, footwear covers, protective suits, protective caps, protective aprons. Today we decided to order 150 more breathing appliances, with all the equipment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U55	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I may have a question at the end of Question Time, but I don't think we're gonna make it. I'm taking this opportunity to ask for it now. This concerns the safe operation of dental care. As far as I know, the Dental Association has addressed members of the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu. I, too, have been contacted by some of the dental centers operating in Rae. More responsible of them have closed their offices today and are waiting for what to do. They do not have sufficient personal protective equipment, while these people still need to be paid, they also have rental contracts, as well as people need dental care. As far as I know, they have not received clear guidelines on how to act. Can dental offices open up even though there is a clear risk to the health of both doctors and patients? Is it possible to obtain personal protective equipment centrally in order to do this work safely, or do they have to close their offices? But then they have the question that there will be no revenue, just like many other companies, and we may lose a very large number of dental clinics on the market. Would you be so good as to give an answer to what a government plan they can count on or how they should act?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U57	Thank you. When it comes to dental care, yes, you are right, the professional association has made its address, the Estonian Medical Association has made its address. The question is that when we talk about emergency aid, it must, in any case, be offered, there is no way to go over or around it; emergency aid must be provided. In answer to the question of whether dental offices should stay or not, the answer is that they are also doctors, and many of them are medical graduates. Of course, prevention of infection risk, personal protective equipment, all of this must also be used in dental care. If this is not possible, they will of course not be able to provide their services, but if that is possible, they will be able to provide their services. A lot of people need dental care. So that's the answer. This is one specific sector, which is linked to the medical sector, where, as I said, many workers are in medical higher education know very well what the requirements are to ensure the safety of themselves and patients. That's the answer. There was another part of your question (if I understood this point correctly) that if the government shuts down dental offices or outpatient clinics, they still need to ensure that rents are paid, wages are paid to the workforce, labour taxes are paid. It's true. That is why the first package of economic measures has been developed. After all, a consensus has been found in cooperation with employers, trade unions and the public sector, all of whom are in the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, a joint decision has been taken on some EUR 250 million. We are helping these companies and, above all, the people in those companies where, for example, turnover has fallen by 30%, where 30% of people have stayed at home or whose wages have fallen, when pay is paid. There are also different KredEx measures. So these economic measures exist. This attitude or principle that when the government closes something, the state is obliged to pay all bills directly, is wrong. It's not right, it's not legally competent. The opinion that if the government makes a decision to close something, it commits itself to bear all the obligations of no, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U58	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U59	Next, Jaak asks Juske and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, first of all, I wish you the strength to resolve the crisis. My question concerns the state's defence capacity. What, Prime Minister, is your assessment of the state's defence capabilities in a situation where the crisis is getting worse in the coming weeks, as you yourself have repeatedly confirmed, in a situation where several military units are quarantined, in a situation where Poland is essentially locked up, and in a situation where Russian white coats or men in white coats have begun to infiltrate Europe? What is your assessment of the state's defence capabilities in this crisis situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U61	Thank you, Mr. Juske. In today's situation, I think it is very important that we talk about things exactly as they are, and we rely on certain information. If your claim is that white coats have begun to infiltrate Europe, I will ask you to give it to me or the police or the Minister of Defence as a matter of urgency. That's a serious argument. The threat assessment for Estonia has not changed. You were talking about Poland. Today, we can say with certainty that our allies in the Baltic airspace.Ämaris are making air security in Poland, Tapa is a UK within the EFP, which is a framework country in Estonia, as well as Denmark. There's no hard or hard stuff, no pieces of information that anyone would like to leave here. NATO will continue to operate in any case when we are talking about the Baltic space. The question is, I understand, it relates primarily to Estonia. There is no signal that our allies would like to change their positions or their actions here. It's not there. Estonia's security is certain. It was only yesterday that I had this information, and I supported it, and Jüri Luik, Minister of Defence, visited our border. He said the situation is secure, there is no change, the motivation of the people is good, the desire to protect the fatherland is high. That's good to hear. So this is it. If we have outbreaks of viruses somewhere, the Defence Forces will certainly deal with it, implement medical requirements, apply hygiene standards, and do everything to make sure that our fighters, our conscripts or allies get well as soon as possible. The battle group of the British battalion with the Dane Company, as I said, is Tapa. On 20 March, a new six-month rotation unit of the United Kingdom started, with the airspace of the three Baltic states guarded by Polish fighters in Ämari, Polish fighters in the NATO air security mission. France is preparing for the rotation to start in May. It is true that there have been some changes to international exercises, such as those related to Defender. But if we are talking about the Estonian Defence Forces' major training, for example, Spring Storm, today's information shows that it will be conducted on a reduced scale in May. I'm sorry I'm out of time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U62	Jaak Juske, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U63	Prime Minister! I hope you know that Russia has sent a humanitarian mission to Italy with a large number of military doctors. I very much hope that the Government of the Republic has also thought about this if Russia should make a similar proposal to Estonia as the crisis deepens. But my question is that, should the crisis worsen as you have said, this risk is very high, whether the government has also thought that the Estonian Defence Forces should also be used to implement the measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U64	Thank you. When we talk about personal protective equipment, let this picture be clear. We need personal protective equipment from all sides, for a fee, on market terms. I do not know that any humanitarian aid would have been offered to the Estonian Government by the Russian Federation. But if we are able to buy masks on market terms, then of course we must do so today. Italy is our ally in every way. If Italy receives any assistance in the case of personal protective equipment, this is one issue. Maybe I misunderstood you about the white coats. I really hope I misunderstood you and you don't have that kind of information. But if it is, please pass on that information immediately. Are we prepared to use more military or defence forces? Today we've done as much as we need to. The Defence League has come to help. I really am grateful to the Defence League. We know that there is a government decision on 150 defence allies at the borders. A very professional attitude. I thank the Defence League, I also thank the employers of these Defence Leagues. They've left somewhere, most of the civilians have left. This shows that, at a difficult moment, we are willing to join forces and do everything we can to resist and prevent the spread of the virus. The Defence Forces have also been a very good partner in preventing this virus, be it on the subject of certain personal protective equipment. So the cooperation will work anyway. If there is a question about what has spread in the meantime, about the false news that Tallinn or Tallinn Old Town (I don't know what was meant by it) will be locked and different mechanisms will be brought to the streets, soldiers and fighters armed to the teeth, then it is wrong. No one's planned this, there's no such thing. In this sense, there are no wishes today to involve the Defence Forces. But, yes, in the civil sense that they assist and support society, they have done so every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U65	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U66	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! As you perceive and have said in this hall, everyone is in this crisis together, there are no different parties here. Therefore, do not take my question critically. Rather, my question is that one of the important pillars of the state's defence capacity and the functioning of the state is the clarity of governance, i.e. everyone understands who makes the decisions. Let's look at this debate today and remind us that a week ago you told me about the inventory of personal protective equipment on the 11th of March. In this crisis, the part of the defence capability is, in fact, how well the front line, the medics, all the people needed, including those working in the service, are equipped with personal protective equipment. We still read that Kuressaare Hospital is asking for help, doctors complain that there are no resources, but at the same time news is coming that Estonian entrepreneurs would like to act under the conditions of the future economic downturn or cooling, but this is not an option. My question is rather motivated by both issues. Perhaps you will repeat because we are being looked at by a lot of people, by someone who has full powers in the country, who is responsible both for financial decisions and for decisions to obtain personal protective equipment, who can actually communicate with and to whom we look if they are not enough, or if the plane has not left in time or arrived.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U67	Thank you. First of all, thank you for this introduction! Yes, I think today we are all out for the people of Estonia and Estonia, and God would give this crisis to be as short as possible. Now, personal protective equipment. When we talk about medicine or social matters, all this information and procurement is the responsibility of Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiik. When we talk about all other areas, starting with the business sector and ending with, for example, the Defence League, the PBGB, etc., the Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab is responsible for this. Now the financial side. You're asking who's responsible. We have agreed that, even during this crisis, all the financial commitments made by ministers must be negotiated at least by the COVID-19 Committee of the Government of the Republic. This committee must in any event grant its acceptance. It's not like there's no review or control. Of course, this acceptance is given, this work format is very operational, very fast. However, the problem today is, as I said earlier, that I feel that more and more closure is taking place, be it the closure of some airspace, be it a prepayment, for example, if there is no advance, then we will not talk to you at all. In order to be sure to the end that if we make this upfront payment of x euros, we get FFP3 masks for y euros or any other personal protective equipment, there is, of course, no 100% probability in today's situation. We will do our best to realise this order in the form of goods in Estonia as soon as possible. On this subject, yes, above all, the negotiations are currently under way with the Minister for Public Administration, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is helping here very strongly, and I would also like to say thank you to Mr Reinsalu, and also to our ambassador in China. All Estonian entrepreneurs, as you say, will listen to this transfer, who will listen to this transfer and who will be able to produce personal protective equipment, please contact me, contact the members of the Government of the Republic, members of the Riigikogu. Give me that information. At the level of the Government of the Republic, we have agreed that if the private sector wishes to contribute, the member of the Government of the Republic, Kaimar Karu, will be responsible for this. So you can contact him directly. As I said yesterday, the State Chancellery, my colleagues went to Sillamäe. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. They got good news. Today we decided in the Government of the Republic Commission that we will make an order for half a year and make an agreement with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U68	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U69	Next, Heidy Purga asks and answers the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U70	Thank you very much, good speaker. Minister, thank you very much. This morning, at the very informative on-line meeting of the Committee on Culture, many questions were answered and many questions were addressed today by my good colleague, Katri Raik. They asked about the final and entrance exams, about school holidays, about the possible extension of the school year and about evaluations. In a few words, you also touched on the question of proficiency. Here's the question. If not, what mechanisms and when can teachers give an overview of the distance learning work of their students? Parents too are very concerned because distance learning takes place in every home in its own way. Have they done this work well enough, have children learned to lead themselves better, and have teachers been able to deal equally with all? Do you have anything designed to enable learning outcomes to be measured with some kind of mechanism or tool at some point?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U71	First of all, thank you very much for your question. Indeed, today at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, we have already covered some of the topics. I'd love to try to answer that. The Ministry and HITSA are also trying to answer all current questions. I may not have been able to answer Maris Lauri's question-proposal so thoroughly. But there are also different offers about primary classes, schools have been contacted, parents have been tried to help. We cannot, of course, go to every teacher alone to force one way or the other to act. We trust our teachers and there is great autonomy, but of course we try to support and help them as much as possible. Rather, we have somehow a panicked desire in society to do a little more than less, is a concern as if our children were left behind in something. Teaching takes place for nine years on a compulsory basis and usually our young people study significantly longer. We're proud of them learning their whole lives. Nothing will happen in a few months. If we know that, for example, the parts describing the mathematics textbook that the child reads are not written to this extent because they are meant to be explained to him at school from the beginning, there are solutions to this. Especially in primary schools, teachers, but also throughout primary school, have offered video lessons. The e-school bag offers video lessons by theme. The teachers are on YouTube's channel, and HITSA has also set up video links to her YouTube. Teachers also try to do so individually. But, of course, there are still those areas or issues that remain incomprehensible. However, the assumption is that we will emerge from this crisis as soon as possible, we will be able to go to regular training and teachers will already be able to assess more individually. As far as we have feedback, teachers try to learn as best as possible what a child has understood, what he or she does not understand. Digital tools are also available for this purpose. But once again: at this age, you cannot expect everyone to be able to use digital tools without limit, so this is one of the options. Spring will pass, one day autumn will come, we all hope that in autumn everything will be normal. Together with IT companies and smart people, Innoves has also considered the possibilities for teachers to use these tools on a class-by-class basis to assess the progress of the whole class.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U72	Heidy Purga, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U73	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I have a question about the general crisis situation and communication in the field of education. Why have you planned and announced home education for two weeks instead of longer?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U74	Yes, the wording is precisely that when the emergency situation or crisis is over, that is to say, until the situation improves. But why are we going through this every two weeks? We will come to these details in the Committee on Culture to do this also requires a slight amendment of the law, which is part of the crisis package, possibly this spring. I understood from Katri Raig's question that if, for example, some exams take place, what is definitely needed in upper secondary school, about which the universities say they want them to be the threshold, but, for example, because of the limited time this spring, it cannot or cannot be done from a distance, we will either postpone them or cancel them. These decisions need to be made in times of crisis. That's why we don't want to generalise. For example, we are considering that in the event of a failure to return to school in May, we will still leave the rest of the students for distance study, but maybe only in the case of students in the 12th grade we will consider whether to allow them to take some degree of exams. Universities have also asked that, for example, if a child does not have an apology, he is already a young person, a young person cannot have a computer connection of such a level that he or she can have an oral interview with him or her to enter the university, he or she could, for example, move to a library or a schoolhouse to use the Internet. Such individual solutions will probably need to be reviewed at some point. Therefore, we say that the school will remain closed until the situation improves, but every two weeks we will review it, because it is possible that we must make certain distinctions here for certain age groups, just as we have taken a separate approach to children with special needs today, we have taken a separate approach to kindergarten children. The two-week cycle has been optimal for maintaining the flexibility of the education system. But once again, don't worry, we're certainly not bringing children together in large groups before the school, if the situation allows it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U75	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U76	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna ask you a little bit about the money, and that's from the municipal perspective. Today we can read in the newspaper that Jaak Aab has said that there will be no reduction in the income base and subsidies of local governments. It's like an encouraging message, but it's not really that flowery. I do not think that, in a crisis situation, we can discuss the fact that we are now starting to reduce revenue, but it is clear that revenue is being reduced because income tax revenues are falling, and revenue is being reduced because the municipalities are holding up kindergartens so that our frontier workers can keep their children there. All of this is justified and correct, but at the same time we have told the other parents that please do not bring the children there. I dare say that most of the municipalities of Estonia have also released the parents from the kindergarten fee, who do not bring the children there, and often also those who bring the children there because there are so few. But it is a considerable cost for the municipality, because the house must be kept open, the staff paid. No one will, of course, lay off teachers because they are needed today and in the future, and so must they live on something today. At the same time, I know that the government is in the process of developing an additional budget for the state budget and that there is also talk about local governments, or at least there is a plan to support them. I thought there was news about it yesterday. I read it somewhere. As Minister of Education, have you stood up for the same subject in order to support municipalities also for kindergarten expenses? It also includes private storage facilities, private day-care centres, where municipalities have started to pay for their parents' share. Is there any hope of getting more money out of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U77	Thank you. There were a lot of different questions, I'm trying to fit in three minutes. First of all, let us all stand together for not only this crisis to pass, but for it to pass in as balanced a way as possible. We all understand that one way or another the recession is and certain receipts are decreasing, but we hope that we will have as little pain as possible. You said that certainly no cuts will be made during the crisis. I remember it's always been the other way around. We must understand that the message that we are not going to cut back in a situation where we realise that this is very necessary, so that as long as possible people have real incomes, it is very important. Fortunately, we understand together that the education sector is a very important sector and if, for example, we should send teachers today to a hire home, it is clear that because people have to get income, they are going somewhere else and we can all see how painful it is. Therefore, these decisions are in the field of community education, they are in early childhood education, they are for those teachers who may not be as busy with distance education as any other teacher, we are very grateful to local authorities for the fact that, fortunately so far, if there has been little news, local authorities have announced that this is not the case, and the authorities are still keeping people on the pay, in the hope that this crisis will be short-term. We all understand that if it doesn't work out as quickly as we all hope to, then different decisions will come. Of course, then, together, we will be discussing here, the name of which is yet another supplementary budget, what we are doing, how we will level out the major declines in local governments, but also in other sectors. Now the other side that you have asked: are there any specific measures for those areas where income has stopped at all today, for example, very much private sector interest education? If this is not directly on the support of the local government, which is in some municipalities, and it is only on parental support or participation fees, then yes, this is the area that must go under other economic measures. This is a sector directly affected. Indeed, I have repeatedly stood for this, and the government, as well as the Committee on Crisis, have been very supportive, realising that the area of education of interest and youth is where action has disproportionately stopped in our area today. With regard to youth workers and other supporting mechanisms, I would also say that local authorities have been very understanding. Rather, these people have been relocated to work with young people, social risk groups and others.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U78	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U79	Next, Andres Sutt asks and answers Kaimar Karu, Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U80	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The crisis has forced the country to impose very harsh and justified restrictions on our daily lives and on the movement of people. Of course, it also directly affects the economy, has a very rapid impact, certainly much faster than in 2008-2009. It is therefore very important that all support measures are available as soon as possible. I heard from previous answers that there is cooperation and coordination between EAS, the Rural Promotion Foundation and KredEx and these measures. This is certainly very important. My questions today relate to KredEx. We in the Committee on Monetary Affairs this morning also heard a review of KredEx. There were two important things on which the implementation of the measures depended: one was the existence of funding and the other was the adoption of the law. So I very much expect this draft to reach the Riigikogu committees as soon as possible. My questions are as follows. When is KredEx prepared to implement new support measures at the earliest? In what amount have you planned to increase KredEx's capital, and when will this happen? How well is this coordinated with the activities of the Treasury and borrowing? How much flexibility do you allow banks to use guarantees specifically for existing loans, are these conditions more rigid or flexible? A very important question is also the organisational capacity of KredEx to cope with significantly higher application volumes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U81	Thank you for your question. I am pleased that there are few participants and questioners in the first Question Time, but the questions are very good and meaningful. The KredEx measures. If I can be an optimist for a moment, we hope to put these measures in place as early as Thursday this week, if everything goes well, this is more specifically about loan guarantees. On the run, we work with banks. Direct loans, including revolving loans, require additional financing, which was also mentioned. Additional funding comes from an additional budget that comes to the Riigikogu as a matter of urgency. Before the additional funding is agreed, there are certain limitations on how much KredEx can use its own measures. KredEx has the means to operate within these funds until the additional funding has actually come. Speaking of amounts: the leverage of guarantees from KredEx is 1 billion under the current situation, the loans, in particular turnover credits, are 500 million and investment loans are of the order of 50 million. But indeed, there is a need for both additional funding and adjustments to the law. We know that both companies and banks are waiting for this to happen as soon as possible. The flexibility of banks should be as high as possible. In the case of loans for payment holidays, KredEx will either guarantee 50% of the loan if we talk about sharing losses with the bank or potentially sharing losses, or up to 35% if the first-loss principle is the first one, or then KredEx will lose money first. The ability to cope with this type of measures in KredEx is historically well-established and demonstrated. The question is whether KredEx can handle the variable volume. They've never had to work that size, luckily or unfortunately. There's a plan to increase extra power. Of course, a great deal of work will actually go to the banks, who will be the first line when businesses come to ask for help, not for all measures. But KredEx also has a plan to improve capacity in cooperation with MKM and EAS. The machine's in place, and there's a plan to find people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U82	Andres Sutt, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U83	Thank you. I think that all activities aimed at supporting the existing loan portfolio are certainly very important. I tend to think that the demand for new loans will probably be lower, but the existing payment holidays will certainly be very important. I would like to ask more about companies that are more in the service sector and do not have large loans that do not have capital intensive activities. What support measures have you considered for this type of enterprise? Often, we talk about catering, personal services, where turnover has simply fallen to zero, but the company itself may be viable on the side of the business plan. In connection with this, when we are talking about new public procurement in construction or also in road construction, which requirements for performance or other tendering guarantees are you considering relaxing? I think that all these measures are very important in order to keep the economy alive as effective as possible. Of course, we cannot expect all companies that existed before the crisis to remain after the crisis. It is important to help companies that are viable and able to adapt.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U84	Thank you. In the case of service companies which do not have capital intensive activities and are currently short on loans, the KredEx measures are still primarily linked to the loan and loan guarantee. There is an exceptional proportional guarantee for new loans, i.e. if they have not taken out the loan before, they can now take out the loan on relatively reasonable terms, an exceptional proportional guarantee for existing loans if they have already taken out the loan before, an exceptional fixed guarantee or an exceptional direct loan. Historically and at present, KredEx does not want to compete with commercial banks, but rather offers additional support. So entrepreneurs in economic difficulties should turn to their home bank as a first step from any sector. If they do not have a home bank in the loan context, because they have not taken a loan, they should be examined by their bank, and then KredEx can help through cooperation with this bank, especially directly, but it is not the biggest or most important activity. As far as public procurement is concerned, the direction that we have taken in public procurements that are already ongoing or that have taken place, where the state is a party to the payer, is that we are trying to do everything we can to ensure that payments are not delayed, so that private operators can get money from the state as quickly as possible. Of course, that doesn't mean we're throwing money off a chopper just in case we need it. Discussions have taken place in terms of flexibility in new public procurement, something has not yet been decided. We will look in the future at how best to implement it and what demands should be alleviated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U85	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Are there any measures in your package of measures that could go under State aid? Secondly, how long can you have a deadline for implementing these measures, i.e. introducing them? Is it indeterminate whether it depends on when the funds are allocated, on when they run out, or are you somehow limited in time? In the case of the MES, we discussed and understood today that the measures are limited to the end of this year. If something goes into next year, this COVID package does not really apply anymore, but the potential economic problem is precisely caused by the virus.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U87	Thank you. In the context of State aid: yes, there may also be activities that fall under State aid. State aid rules, or those which are or are not State aid, are also changing. On the length of these measures: when the first package was announced, where money should actually be found, its aim was, among other things, to send a strong message that the money would not come in by division and a little bit, and that everyone would have to fight over this one amount, but that they wanted to give the company confidence that the state really wanted to help them. At the moment, KredEx has different measures of different lengths, depending on the specific measure. But the first package, this 1.5 billion or 1.55 billion, was designed as a first step to give direction and start helping the first companies. With the moment, it's going to run like this for so long, really, until the money runs out. If money is not used from any measure, of course it will not be wasted or lost, it will come back to the country. If any of the measures run out of money, we'll see. The plan is to look at it sooner than the money runs out. Perhaps if the measure has been used, it is necessary and helpful, we will try to find more money. There are no strict restrictions on how long it can be used in the context of the end of this year. Yeah, it's more flexible in terms of terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U88	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U89	The next questioner is Jevgeni Ossinovski and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U90	Thank you. Prime Minister! Firstly, Estonia was undoubtedly successful in the first stage of infection control. Its testimony is that we have so far been able to prevent the explosion of incidents. Although individual mistakes at the official level were certainly made, which makes sense in such a critical situation, I think that all authorities and front-line workers deserve recognition. I give special recognition to you too, because when the government took the first strong steps, there were many who said to take it easy, it's okay. One of the peculiarities of the spread of this infection is that people are going to demand adequate measures two weeks too late, because that is when the effects begin to appear. We have won time, but we know that the epidemic is only in its early stages. We both have a calculation model that shows that there is a considerable probability that intensive care will need about 500 people within a month, close to the critical limit of our capabilities. When this critical line comes, we know well that people will die from there not only for the corona virus, but also for other reasons, because the Estonian state will no longer be able to provide adequate help to them. These models show that the prevalence coefficient of our infection is between 1.1 and 1.8, which means that the epidemic is not going away, but continues to spread, even though these measures have prevented the explosion. You answered your colleague's question in such a way that the government's position to stop the corona virus is to do everything possible to get the brakes on and get over it as quickly as possible. Consequently, I have a question. In order to assess whether the measures taken are adequate or not, it is necessary to first find out what the objective is. Is the government's goal to get R0 below 1, or force the virus to retreat, and did the scientists who gave you advice, led by Professor Lutsar, assure you yesterday that the measures taken would lead to the infection rate below 1 in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U91	Honourable Jevgeni Ossinovski, good Jevgeni! I don't think this is very common, but I want to say thank you here in front of the entire Riigikogu. It is no secret that we have worked together in different places for many years and have made many phone calls in recent weeks. They've been a help to me in any case. Thank you. Now whether or not we have done well with the first step. I can really only rely on what the experts said yesterday. The top experts, led by virologist Professor Irja Lutsar, said that these measures had helped. You're asking what the purpose is. Yeah, you're talking about there's a modeled schedule for them, I think, that tells you about an ICU forecast, which tells you about a hospital need forecast. Just as in the economy, when assessing economic growth, this forecast has three different estimates. There is an estimate that is average, the most likely is that estimate, which is the most critical, and of course there is also an estimate that is the lowest. Yes, there is no secret here, they have said during this modeling that the most critical assessment, as you said, is really that at one point there may be about 500 intensive care patients in Estonia. However, they say that since the measures have been implemented because the restrictions have been implemented, they do not consider it likely that such a trend would develop. So what exactly is this going to be, what's this number? I don't think anyone's gonna say it straight today. They're not gonna know. Professor Lutsari was also asked yesterday to model new schedules for intensive care and illness with the modelling team during the week and to come back to the committee on Tuesday. Here was the question of whether there was a goal that R0 would be less than 1. I say so, good Evgeny: our aim is that it should be as low as possible by applying all these restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U92	Evgeny Ossinovski, a specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U93	Thank you. Surely the confidence limits of these projections are broad, but in the end, whether we have 230 intensive care needs or 546 intensive care needs in one month's time, there is certainly a significant difference in the sense of when the critical moment arrives, whether it comes in four weeks or six weeks' time. The more we can keep R0 close to 1, the longer we delay this critical moment. But we're actually going to go to this critical limit until we can get R0 down 1. There is also some modeling in this same model, in which case R0 would be 0.5 and we would start to reduce the epidemic. It has also been modelled on how much we would save lives, how much less we would have intensive care needs, etc. This would undoubtedly require a significantly different package of measures once it has been implemented. There are basically two options that have been implemented in the world. This possibility has been implemented that, as we gradually move on epidemiologically, we will try to keep R0 as close as possible to 1 but still positive, because we will not be able to suppress it. The second is a modelled version, which has been implemented in some countries Both strategies have their advantages and disadvantages. I ask what considerations the government has so far decided that we must put a swift stop to this matter, say a specific time for society, that it will then begin to return to normal, but rather have chosen another strategy, or gradually tightening individual measures, in the hope that at some point a vaccine or medicines will be invented.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U94	Thank you. Yes, indeed, these strategies have been, I think, even more than two, but broadly speaking, you can say as you say. I would say that there is also a third strategy, it has also been said that some restrictions must be imposed on elderly and chronically ill people in particular, but the rest of the society must suffer from it, cope with it and receive such immunity. We have to take into account that if we take any measures, I understand that the undertone of your question is this, then this complete shut-off in society means not only a recession, but it means that we will not be able, for example, to treat other medical cases by means of our budget and tax receipts, to provide medical support as much as possible. All in all, this is the kind of balance that must be maintained at all times, that these restrictive economic measures, which, I very much hope, are still short-term, do not mean that long-term benefits are reduced in health insurance, let alone in other areas, so drastically that it starts to treat other diseases, not only discourage other activities in medicine, but we must say that there is no more power to do so. So this equilibrium point and this point have to be found. I think this has also been one of the main criteria for imposing restrictions. Compared to other European countries, Estonia has actually made these restrictions quickly, rather forcefully, rather specifically. The question is also, if we now give examples of other countries where there is a complete feather, then there is the question of what moment they started to implement it, at which stage the spread of the disease was, the spread of the virus at that point. It is clear that there have been countries that could have done these restrictions more quickly. The spread of the virus was already too great, it was not properly perceived, and there have been very fatal and very bad endings. In conclusion, I would like to say that, when we are always doing these restrictions, we are primarily based on what I consider to be the undertone of your question, so that it will provide the best for people's health and life.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U95	Thank you. I thank all my fellow Members for their questions, I thank the honourable ministers for their answer. Today's Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U96	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 9th working week session of the 3rd plenary session on Wednesday. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? Yes, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U97	Ladies and gentlemen, We live in an emergency. We can and can perfectly understand that, together with the health crisis that has hit us, there is also a crisis in the economy. During our sitting today, tens, perhaps hundreds, of people will be made redundant, not to mention those who are at home and whose salary or income falls for very long months. In this regard, the salary of senior civil servants is unthinkable and unthinkable. I don't like politicians using two types of sentences. First of these: 'I support the proposal, but do not support the draft. " The second is when the legislator says that he cannot change the law. I think we can. Here is the draft law amending the Law on salaries of senior civil servants. The purpose of the Act is to extend the possibility of reducing the wage coefficients of all senior civil servants in a situation where state budget resources need to be used to ensure that the state operates in an emergency situation. I have worked through the current law, §75 of the Constitution and the judgment since 2009 and I believe that the bill can bring the current situation and the salaries of the so-called statesmen into line. Perhaps yes, donating is undoubtedly a good thing, a voluntary move that anyone can afford, even now. There is no doubt that many of us are doing so. It's not a hero thing, it's a normal part of life. It's more serious. People's representatives must show solidarity with their people, not only in good but also in bad. In the last week, I have been in contact with many of you from different political groups and government, and I hope that you will not say no to the peasantry, but together we will think about how this law can be answered, so yes, let's do it. The draft law is initiated by three political groups: the Fatherland, the Centre Party and the EKRE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U98	Thank you. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U99	Dear Riigikogu! I hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu to the Government of the Republic to make a proposal. There is no doubt that the press played a very important role in the emergence of the Estonian nation state. There is no doubt that the functioning and existence of the fourth power, the existence of a free press, is essential for democracy to function. In this emergency situation, we have seen the need for adequate, professional, balanced information to enable society to function in times of emergency. But the economic setbacks that society perceives have inevitably also reached the media scene; they also have an increasing impact on the functioning of the press. So the Social Democratic Party Group is proposing to the Government of the Republic to urgently develop measures to ensure that the free press can also function during and after the crisis. The Social Democrats make a number of proposals in the explanatory memorandum that can be achieved, i.e. to support the professional functioning of the media and ensure its sustainability.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U100	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted a draft law and a draft decision. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 28 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, 73 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U101	Let's go to today's item. Today we have an item on the agenda, elections to the Riigikogu Board. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin by electing the President of the Riigikogu. I will brief you on the procedure for electing the President of the Riigikogu. According to § 69 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the Riigikogu elects the President of the Riigikogu and two vice-chairmen from among its members. In organising elections, the Election Committee of the Republic follows the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Before going to the election procedures, let me briefly introduce you to the election procedure. For voting purposes, the members of the Riigikogu are divided between voting areas according to the alphabetical order of the names. I will present the voting procedure before the vote is announced. First, the President of the Riigikogu is elected. The Vice-Chairmen of the Riigikogu are elected at the same time after the election of the Chairman of the Riigikogu. A member of the Riigikogu may appoint a candidate. After the election of the President of the Riigikogu, candidates for the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu shall be appointed. The proposed person must consent to the application. Voting shall be by secret procedure and shall be carried out by means of a ballot paper. Each member of the Riigikogu has one vote in the elections of both the President of the Riigikogu and the Vice-Chairpersons. The votes shall be taken publicly as soon as the vote is closed. Objections to the organisation of the vote shall be submitted to the selection panel immediately after the end of the vote and on the outcome of the vote, without delay after the result of the vote has been communicated. The result of the election shall be announced immediately after the possible protests have been examined. A candidate who receives more than half of the valid votes shall be elected as chairman of the Riigikogu. If no candidate receives more than half of the valid votes, an additional round of elections shall be held between the two candidates with the highest votes. In the case of equal votes, lots shall be cast. If there is only one candidate on the list of candidates for the Chairman of the Riigikogu, he will be elected if he receives more votes in favour than against. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions? Not at the moment. Are there members of the Riigikogu among us who wish to nominate candidates for the Chairman of the Riigikogu? Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U102	Good chairman of the sitting! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I propose Ivari Padari as the President of the Riigikogu. We do this because the administration of the Riigikogu becomes more democratic and balanced. In times of crisis, it is particularly important that the President of the Riigikogu stands firm for parliamentary democracy and does not allow the role of parliament to be reduced and the rights of ambassadors to be reduced gradually. It is the task of the President of the Riigikogu to seek solutions that would also ensure the smooth work of the Estonian Parliament in an emergency. For Estonia's democracy, it is vital that the President of the Riigikogu be the chairman of the entire Riigikogu, not the representative of the Government Union on the Board of the Riigikogu, I mean the President of the entire Riigikogu. He must also respect the wishes of non-governmental ambassadors to do their work. If one of the ministers offends members of the Riigikogu, he also insults their constituents. In this case, the Chairman of the Riigikogu must be prepared, if necessary, to exercise the right given to the President to leave such a minister unspoken in the assembly. Of course, intolerance to any minority is unacceptable to the holder of such a high office. The President of the Riigikogu cannot have his or his party's foreign policy. Estonia has one foreign policy and must be guided by the President of the Riigikogu. Ivari Padar is a convinced democrat and admirer of parliamentarianism, an experienced and hardened statesman who can be trusted in the head of the Riigikogu with a calm heart. He has also benefited from the extensive international experience he has gained as a multiple minister and as a Member of the European Parliament. It is also of little importance that Ivar Padar is not a faraway politician, but a man whose word has weight and who knows how people live both in the countryside and in the city. He has authority among the supporters of different world views. Also, Ivar has also studied the field of woodworking in his youth and has carved a lot of useful and beautiful things. However, Ivari has promised that he will not decorate the working rooms of the Riigikogu with these things when he becomes chairman. Good ambassadors! On this basis, I invite you to vote in favour of Mr Padar.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U103	Thank you. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I present Henn Põllea as the candidate for the President of the Riigikogu. I don't have a long, pretty speech to confirm it with elegant stings or other poetic moments. It's not time for calls, it's time for action. I appreciate that Henn Põlluaas has done his job well so far, and I ask you to vote for him. Clear and robust leadership is needed in times of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U105	Thank you. Any more candidates? The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to submit candidates. Ivari Padar, do you agree to apply for the position of Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U107	Please also give your consent in writing. Henn Põllaas, do you agree to apply for the position of Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U108	Yes, I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U109	Please also give your consent in writing. I close the list of candidates for the Chairman of the Riigikogu and announce a break for the appointment of candidates for the Chairman of the Riigikogu on ballot papers. At the end of the break, I'll give you an audible signal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U110	The Riigikogu Election Committee is ready to conduct the election of the President of the Riigikogu. Members of the Commission are checking the voting boxes right here before you and closing them with security seals. Thank you. The ballot boxes are sealed. Allow me to introduce the procedure for voting in the future. Six voting areas have been prepared for the selection. First, the lobby of the main building of the Riigikogu. Second, the conference room on the second floor of the southern wing (Jaan Tõnisson's room) L262. Thirdly, the second floor of the southern wing, the art hall of the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the hall of Kalevipoeg on the second floor of the main building of the Riigikogu. Fifth, the third-floor gallery of the south wing, the so-called exhibition hall. Sixth, P479 in front of the north wing conference room. Every member of the Riigikogu shall vote in the voting area of which he is on the list. We ask the members of the Riigikogu not to vote at the same time, but to follow the alphabetical order, which means that voters who are in the middle and at the end of the list should vote later accordingly. We ask to enter the voting area one by one and follow the guidelines of the voting organisers. While waiting to enter the voting area, we ask you to keep your distance. The Election Committee gives a voting slip to a member of the Riigikogu. I ask the members of the Riigikogu to show the electoral body their identity document (certificate, passport, identity card or driving licence of the member of the Riigikogu) in order to receive a ballot paper. The member of the Riigikogu will sign the ballot paper and then remove the ballot paper from the table. For the purpose of signing and filling in the note, please use either a personal typewriter or a disposable writing device in the voting room. The ballot papers shall be completed behind the pass of the vote. If there are several candidates, the member of the Riigikogu shall tick a cell with a cross on the ballot paper at the name of the candidate he votes for. Voting ballots which bear the name of more than one candidate or which do not bear the name of any candidate shall be deemed invalid. If there is only one candidate, the member of the Riigikogu shall vote for or against the candidate by ticking 'for' or 'against' at the name of the candidate on the ballot paper. We have two candidates, so we don't need that. After completing the ballot paper, you will break the ballot paper, go to the voting box and let your ballot paper in the voting box in person. If you have accidentally erred or violated the ballot paper and notice it before the ballot box is released, you have the right to receive a new ballot paper if the corrupt note is returned. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions? No, it's not. At the time of the election, only members of the electoral committee and persons serving the electoral committee may be present in the voting area in addition to members of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to § 87 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, members of the Riigikogu have 30 minutes to vote from the beginning of the voting. The vote shall begin five minutes after the start of the intermission. It's 2:27. I shall give a signal of the end of the vote. I declare a break for the election of the President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U111	The Riigikogu Election Committee is ready to conduct the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Commission are checking the voting boxes right here before you and closing them with security seals. Please! All right, the boxes are sealed. The voting procedure is the same as for the election of the President of the Riigikogu and takes place in the same voting areas. A member of the Riigikogu shall tick a cell with a cross on the ballot paper at the name of the candidate he or she votes for. Voting ballots which bear the name of more than one candidate or which do not bear the name of any candidate shall be deemed invalid. Do Riigikogu members have any questions about voting procedures? No, it's not. The time allowed for voting is 30 minutes from the beginning of the vote. The vote shall begin five minutes after the start of the intermission. It's 3:38. I shall give a signal of the end of the vote. I declare the vote on the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U112	Dear Riigikogu! I declare the vote closed when the President of the Riigikogu is elected. Please bring the ballot boxes to the hall. Looks like all the boxes are in the hall. Do Riigikogu members have protests about voting? There are no protests. Then I ask you to check the voting boxes and that the security seals have not been broken during the vote. It's okay. I'm asking the Election Commission to start counting votes. [[The election board reads the votes.]] I would ask the Republic Election Commission to read the votes publicly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U113	Honourable Riigikogu! I will publicly read the votes given to the candidates. Henn Fieldase: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50. Ivari Padar: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41. Labored ballot papers: 1, 2. The ballot papers are invalid because no candidates have been marked.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U114	The election committee will prepare a report on the results of the vote, and we will wait for it. Ladies and gentlemen, I announce the results of the vote on the election of the President of the Riigikogu and the minutes of the Riigikogu Election Committee on the results of the vote on the election of the President of the Riigikogu. The electoral committee of the Republic established the following figures in the counting of votes. First of all, the number of members on the list was 101. Secondly, the number of members who have received a ballot paper is 94. Thirdly, the number of members who have taken part in the vote is 93. Fourthly, the number of invalid ballot papers is 2. Fifthly, the number of votes cast on the candidates for the President of the Riigikogu: 41 votes cast by Ivari Padar, candidate for the President of the Riigikogu Henn Põljaas, 50 votes cast. The Protocol was drawn up on 25 March 2020 at 15.22 p.m. Signed by Meelis Eerik, President of the Republic Election Commission. Do the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the determination of voting results? There are no protests. In that case, I ask the Republic Election Commission to prepare the decision. I declare the election results in the election of the President of the Riigikogu. Decision: 'Identification of the results of the election of the President of the Riigikogu. On the basis of § 7 (5) and § 82 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the Election Committee of the Republic decides: to declare Henn Põljaas elected Chairman of the Riigikogu. Meelis Eerik, President of the Republic Election Commission. " March 25, 2020. Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu, I congratulate you and give you the leadership of the sitting. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U115	First of all, I thank the Riigikogu for its trust and promise to carry out the duties of Chairman of the Riigikogu in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act and according to my best skills and recognition. But let's go to the election of the Vice-Presidents of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu is basically the same procedure that we carried out in the election of the Chairman. The two candidates who have received the most votes will be vice-chairmen of the Riigikogu. The first vice-chairman shall be the candidate with the highest number of votes and the second candidate with the highest number of votes received as vice-chairman. An additional round of elections will be held among the equal votes gathered. I shall present the voting procedure before the beginning of the vote. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions on the subject so far? No, it's not. Does one of the members of the Riigikogu wish to appoint a candidate for the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu? Please come to the speaker's desk. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U116	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the party of the Reform Party, I propose Siim Kallas as the candidate for Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. That could be the end of it, because the suitability of Siim Kallas for this office is without a word. But I would just like to say so much that, in order to organise the work of the Riigikogu, we also face very challenging times and it is very important that the management of the Riigikogu has experienced and follows the best practice of parliamentary state in the best sense. I therefore think it is particularly important that Mr Kallas is a member of the Board of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U117	Thank you. Any other suggestions? Yeah. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U118	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu, congratulations! I present Helir-Valdor Seeder as the candidate for the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U119	Thank you. Any other suggestions? No, it's not. There is no further request for nominations. Mr Siim Kallas, do you agree to apply for the post of Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U120	Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U121	Please also give your consent in writing. Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, do you agree to apply for the post of Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U122	Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U123	Please also give your consent in writing in this case. Dear Riigikogu! I close the list of candidates for Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu and announce a break for the appointment of candidates for Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu on ballot papers. I'll give you a signal when the break's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U124	Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the vote closed in the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. Please bring the ballot boxes to the hall. Do the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the organisation of voting? I don't see any protests. First of all, please check the voting boxes and that the security seals on the ballot boxes are not damaged. I would ask the members of the electoral commission to start counting votes. [[The election board reads the votes.]] I would ask the Republic Election Commission to read the votes publicly. Airi Mikli, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U125	Honourable Riigikogu! I will publicly read the votes given to the candidates. Siim Kallas: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40. Honourable Riigikogu! I read the votes given to Siim Kallas again: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40. Helir-Valdor Seeder: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51. Lashed notes: 1, 2. Notes have been invalidated due to the fact that neither candidate is listed on the note.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-25_U126	I will announce the results of the vote on the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. 'The minutes of the Election Committee of the Republic on the results of voting in the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu Election Committee established the following figures when counting votes: the number of members of the Riigikogu included on the list, 101, the number of members of the Riigikogu who received the ballots, 93, the number of members of the Riigikogu who took part in the vote, 93, the number of voting ballots that were not valid, 2. The number of votes cast on the candidates for the vice-presidents of the Riigikogu: Siim Kallas 'The protocol was drawn up on 25 March 2020 at 4.31 p.m., signed by Meelis Eerik, President of the Election Commission of the Republic. Any protests? There are no protests. In that case, please complete the decision of the Republic Election Commission. I declare the election result in the election of the Vice-Presidents of the Riigikogu. Decision of the Riigikogu Election Committee on the determination of the results of the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu on 25 March 2020 No 124: 'On the basis of § 7 (6) and § 82 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the Election Committee of the Republic decides: To recognise Helir-Valdor Seeder as the elected first Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and Siim Kallas as the second Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. " The President of the Republic Election Commission, Meelis Eerik, has signed. Congratulations to the vice presidents. Ladies and gentlemen, The new Riigikogu Board has been elected. That concludes today's trial. I thank all the members of the Riigikogu and the Election Commission. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 4:34 p.m.
