ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 4th working week Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Currently, members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to hand over drafts and questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, I will give the Riigikogu a draft law amending § 13 of the Citizenship Act to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. It's very simple, essentially consisting of one sentence. The aim, of course, is much more serious. Namely, some time ago, the Riigikogu adopted amendments to the Citizenship Act, which should enter into force on 17 February, i.e. in four days' time, with the aim of being noble to themselves: that Estonian children born in Estonia would receive Estonian citizenship more easily. However, as we recall from the discussion at the time, the government has written in the draft quite quite, should say, a disgraceful provision. In order to obtain Estonian citizenship under the simplified procedure, the Russian Federation must be abandoned in advance. However, this is unfortunately not possible. In order to prevent such mockery of people, we are giving our draft amendment to the procedure. I guess all this was said during the procedure at the time, but, as has already been said, the politicians of the government coalition listened, but did not hear. In general, people have the custom or at least the ability to correct mistakes. Being optimistic about the positive will and desire of people, we hope that together we will be able to resolve this problem before people become wicked about what has already been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U3	Thank you. There are no further requests for referrals and drafts. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft law. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes this in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now the messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, a meeting of the Tartu Peace Treaty Support Group will be held in this Chamber, convened by Helir-Valdor Seeder. Everyone has a chance to participate. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. 78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we go to today's agenda, it is a great honour to welcome the Chairman of the Swedish Parliament to his Excellency, Mr Andreas Norlén, and the delegation accompanying him, who is on our balcony. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have one item on the agenda, the first reading of the draft Act amending § 19 of the Act on the Status of a Member of the Riigikogu initiated by the National Defence Committee. The rapporteur is Madis Milling, member of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U5	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me wish you all a happy international radio day. Now let's get down to business. Before you is the Act amending § 19 of the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu. It's very short and very specific. To begin with, I will read it out: 'The second sentence of § 19 (4) of the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu shall be amended and worded as follows: 'If a member of the National Defence Commission does not submit the documents referred to in subsection 5 of this section within two months of being appointed as a member of the National Defence Commission or does not undergo a security check, the new member of the National Defence Committee shall be appointed in his place in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure Act of the Riigikogu. ' Now, let me explain a little bit about what this is about. In fact, at the beginning of the previous composition of the XIII Riigikogu, members of the National Defence Committee began to be required to undergo a prescribed security check in order to gain access to information with the classification 'NATO secret information'. When this addition to the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu was made at the end of the XII composition, it was born in good faith and provided that the member of the National Defence Committee takes care of his or her affairs, i.e. fill out the required form as soon as possible and as soon as possible. Life, however, showed that this was not the case. If there is no time limit, things tend to stretch. The members of the Riigikogu have had different reasons, but in general it can be said that a person is comfortable by nature, if there is a chance of throwing today's work into the day after tomorrow, it will be done. It happened that a number of members of the Committee on National Defence of the previous composition did not apply for permission to do so. In this composition, too, many members of the National Defence Committee have not taken care of their affairs since the beginning of the work of the Riigikogu, i.e. within almost eight months. The amendment of the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu provides for a two-month period during which a member of the National Defence Committee must complete the required form. That's all for short. I'm willing to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U6	Thank you. Indeed, you have questions. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U7	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, What happens if, despite this amendment to the law, a member still decides not to comply with this requirement? Will he be automatically excluded from the work of the Commission, or how?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U8	Yes, the law already stipulated in advance that if a member of the National Defence Commission did not submit the required documents or pass a security check, a new member would be appointed in his place. However, the previous law, or the law in force, did not provide for the time during which it would have to submit the required documents. With this legislative amendment, we will set a period of two months. And as I said before, the fact that there was no time set, it was because of the stretching, which at times went eight months long.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U9	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U10	Thank you. I would point out that, in fact, the content of this section in itself may be unconstitutional, because it severely limits Parliament's sovereignty by subjecting this House to the control of other forces. In fact, we are also able to decide whether our colleagues deserve this access or not. Have you also discussed that, in such a case, the security check, as it is currently in the law, should simply be removed from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U11	Thank you for your question. The member of the Riigikogu has access to classified information of the Republic of Estonia, depending on the mandate and post, of course, in the amount regulated by the so-called need for knowledge. We are talking about information from our partner services, or NATO information. But with classified information, access to it is decided by the owner of the information, or NATO, in this case. Neither the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu nor the constitutional barrage has anything to do with NATO's secret information.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U12	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U13	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The fact that the members of the Riigikogu are more responsible is understandable. But didn't the comparison, let's say, of the usual four-month probation period, if you still don't pass the test in four months, then you have to go? Or is it because the members of the Riigikogu are more responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U14	This method of probation, as described by a good colleague today, was not discussed in the Committee on National Defence. In fact, this time limit is driven by two factors. One thing certainly is that the access of a member of the Riigikogu is processed in turn for up to two months at the relevant security authority. The National Defence Committee found that, if you give a member of the National Defence Commission two months to fill out his questionnaire, plus a possible two months, that will be four months in total, then this is a reasonable time. We are still talking about ensuring that the members of the National Defence Commission get their secret permissions done as soon as possible, so that the Commission can then work in full force, being in a common information room. Now that this joint information room has come up, I'd like to bring in one very important piece. In the previous composition of the XIII Riigikogu, no votes were held in the National Defence Committee; all decisions were taken by consensus. Yes, it must be said that at other times this consensus was born through serious discussions and disputes, but it was born. This fact in itself, that there was no vote in the National Defence Committee for four years, was a very compelling fact, for example, when we met our allies, NATO partners. It was always an extremely positive surprise, it was a very hard informative currency. And this fact, in itself, that the National Defence Committee has taken all decisions consensually, also gives evidence to our allies that Estonia is a cross-political and political matter of national defence. However, it is extremely difficult to have serious substantive discussions or disputes in a situation where the members of the National Defence Committee have access to a secret in a different information space, i.e. some of the members of the National Defence Commission have had briefings where information from partner services is shared, but some of the members of the National Defence Committee are in another information room, they do not have this information. Perhaps a common position or understanding of something is difficult to shape in such a situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U15	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U16	Thank you, good manager. Good Madis! I'm also a little concerned about the constitutionality of this thing. I mean, I fully understand the noble purpose of this draft just because we would all like the members of the National Defence Committee to be credible and reliable among our allies as well. However, is it not a problem here if we are actually subjecting a member of the Riigikogu or his opportunity to work as a member of the National Defence Committee to a decision of an institution outside the Riigikogu? I still see a violation of the principle of separation of powers. At the end of the day, one can argue that if a political group or a member of the Riigikogu finds that his representative on the National Defence Committee is a member of the Riigikogu who has a mandate for the people, and even if he does not pass the NATO security check, he still wants to work there, who has the right to prohibit it, the people have chosen him. I think we're going to have constitutional problems here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U18	Yes, thank you! I get the question. I repeat: changes in the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu, which then concern the passing of the security check of a member of the National Defence Committee, were adopted in the composition of the XII Riigikogu. And then the Constitution wasn't found here. With today's draft, we are not changing the nature of the law, but simply setting a deadline within which security checks must be carried out. Once again, when the law was passed in XII, there was no constitutional breach.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U19	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have a very specific question. How many draft laws were in the previous composition, which were dealt with by the Defence Committee, and how many of them called for access to state secrets? Were they 10%, 20%, 30%, or 100%?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U21	Thank you. I do not have this kind of statistics available at the moment, but as far as I am concerned, I would remind you that there were problems with the same subject in the previous composition, some of the members had not worked out the paperwork. Hannes Hanso, then Chairman of the National Defence Commission, sent a letter of formal notice to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu on 16 January 2018, in which he then wished to introduce the amendment discussed today. So it's been a long time. But in answer to your question, I will say once again that I do not have such statistics and that has not been done by the Committee on National Defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U22	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U23	Thank you. I would remind you of two things. Firstly, whether it is a question of NATO's secrets or not is not a question of constitutionality in this case. Because the question is this: during the inspection, the Estonian Defence Police Department will be allowed to follow the speeches of a member of the Riigikogu, his activities and his behaviour, and in the end a decision will be made on how he can exercise the mandate he has received from his people in Parliament. There is definitely a question of constitutional incision here. This restriction only makes it stronger, because when the old wording promised that if he did not pass this verification, he could still do his work in the Riigikogu as his party, as his constituents have seen better. If we set a deadline here and say no, he cannot, if the Defence Police Department does not allow it, then we have achieved a situation where Parliament is no longer sovereign, where the choice of people does not decide who will make the policy. And it's very dangerous.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U24	Thank you. I don't see it that black. Let's get started on this: any member of the Riigikogu who, of his own volition or, as determined by the political group, becomes a member of the National Defence Committee has already known in advance, and in the previous composition, that such a check must be carried out. I repeat: it also exists in the law currently in force. In the previous composition of the XIII Riigikogu, this was not called into question by the violation of the Constitution. The member of the Riigikogu gives his consent to the security check by signing it. It is arbitrary that a member of the Riigikogu, and more specifically a member of the National Defence Commission, will not perform security checks unless the member himself consents. Perhaps it is the choice of a member of the Riigikogu to participate in the work of the National Defence Committee, where this requirement or limitation is And access to the secret, as I said, will be decided by the owner of the information, that is NATO, not us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U25	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! However, I am of the opinion that the Committee on National Defence, as such, is still dealing with important issues for the protection of the state and the debate. Since the need for this security clearance has been called into question here, etc., perhaps you could briefly explain what is involved then or why security clearance is being carried out so that doubters can understand why it needs to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U27	I cannot go into detail on this platform for obvious reasons, but I repeat that the members of the National Defence Commission receive different information from our allies, our NATO allies, our security services of NATO allies. And this information is classified under the nato secret clause. That is why we need to go through security clearance to request permission to access the relevant information. I repeat that a member of the Riigikogu, depending on his mandate and position, has access to the secrets of the Republic of Estonia, because the Republic of Estonia and the holder of information have so decided. But if NATO, as the holder of its information, has decided that security checks must be carried out, then this is NATO's decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U28	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U29	Thank you. Dear waitress, Now it's a rather technical question. Everyone will be disciplined to sign the permission you spoke of, right, then there will be control and it will be clear that one person or another will not have access to the secret. Then the question arises as to what he has access to at all. If he is not a reliable person within the framework of our institution, how can he be trusted at all? The question is whether this person, even if you have a negative answer to your permission application, will have the opportunity to investigate in any way why such a decision has been taken. This is of interest to you, to the general public and to your colleagues, etc. Or is that it, the decision is final, there will be no further procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U30	Thank you very much. I am not familiar with the technical details of security controls, and I do not need to know to do so. In the context of security controls, especially in the context of NATO classified information, a large number of people in Estonia are made members of the Defence Forces, including officials. The security authority that carried out the security check does not normally need to justify why this authorisation was not granted, but may do so. As far as a member of the Riigikogu is concerned, neither does he enjoy any other restrictions or his credibility in this Chamber, just because he does not have access to information that bears the red stamp 'NATO secret'.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U31	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U32	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Member of the Commission, dear waitress Madis Milling! Perhaps once again, this distinction would be clarified. Many have asked me, too, what is the difference? When the Commission discusses, even proposes a consensual draft to be sent to the Chamber and adopted in the Chamber, the Chamber will still take a decision, not the Commission. However, the question arises as to how this distinction is then, because the members of the committee are in a larger information field than the members of the Riigikogu in this very Chamber who are actually adopting this law. Maybe you'll stress it one more time. The nature of the work of the National Defence Committee is parliamentary listening, legislative drafting, but it is precisely this side of the briefings that does not actually reach this large hall that provides an important basis for this committee. Maybe you can explain it a little bit more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U33	Thank you. The National Defence Committee will shape its positions on different topics depending on the information that its members have. The members of the National Defence Committee, as has already been said here, receive various briefings and participate in various hearings. We receive information from Estonian security authorities as well as classified information from partners. If the National Defence Committee has made a consensual decision based on this information, then it is also a signal to the great signal that the National Defence Committee agrees on this matter. It is, then, the internal question of each group itself of how much they trust a member of their group, who is in the Committee on National Defence. But yes, as the chairman of the committee has already said in his question, the members of the National Defence Committee receive, say, more detailed and in-depth information than other members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U34	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U35	Good manager! Good waitress! You had a very interesting discussion with Eerik-Niles Kross, the suspicion of a constitutional breach. Well, actually, we have these latches every day, the question is how big and how important these latches are. At the same time, however, the final decision is made by some kind of state administration, I do not want to use the word 'deep state', calling into question the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu. We're talking about Martin Repinski, even though no one's gonna name it. Martin has said that he didn't get it because he's going too far in Russia. But yesterday, the Yearbook of the Foreign Intelligence Department appeared and was meeting with them. And China's threat has increased. Could one of our colleagues in China go too far in danger of getting his NATO permit?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U36	Thank you. Good colleague! I am not a security authority, which is why I do not have the authority to descend to the issues of China. But I'd like to fix one mistake. You said the final decision would be made by some random official somewhere. A good colleague does not make any official, a decision is made by our own colleagues. I quote: 'The security audit authority shall submit the data collected during the security audit of a member of the Riigikogu to the supervisory committee of the security authorities of the Riigikogu [... ] The supervisory committee of the Riigikogu Security Authorities decides whether a member of the Riigikogu has passed the security audit. '
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U37	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Good Madis! You just turned down what I wanted to say with my question and comment. However, I will give you this example: when we visited the European Union and NATO headquarters with the National Defence Committee, those members of the National Defence Committee who did not have access to classified information could not come with us. And that's why we've already settled in different fields of information, a part of our colleagues knows the information in depth, a part knows maybe indirectly. So here, in my opinion, it is very well founded that we are applying for secret access permits and that we will receive them through the process described by you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U39	Thank you. I understand it was just a comment. But I'm commenting too. Indeed, the National Defence Commission visited NATO headquarters in Brussels, but also in Mons, the headquarters of the NATO European Command. In the various briefings on the so-called red premises, in those where no phones or even a smartbell can be taken with us, we got different information, let's say so. Indeed, those members of the National Defence Commission who do not have NATO secret permission could not go there. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U40	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U41	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! At the beginning of your speech, you were guided by NATO deciding on access to information, but now you said a few questions ago that in the Riigikogu, however, there is a committee that decides this. A bit of conflicting information. Please specify whether this decision is our decision, i.e. the decision of the Parliament, i.e. the people in this house, or whether there is an organisation outside, who is supervising someone or something?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U42	Thank you. Thank you very much for your question. The clarification was necessary, so I'm going to go over the conditions for accessing information, so it might be more accurate to say. Yes, the decision is not made anywhere in the headquarters of NATO in Brussels, but the decision is made in this house, but the owner of the information, or NATO, has given the conditions and criteria on which the security check and the decision must be based.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U43	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! I would like to make sure that one thing remains, that the confidential information of our partners must be protected. In the case of NATO entry, there was a strong requirement that their information should not wander, and for that we have created the conditions both at the General Staff of the Defence Forces and elsewhere where this issue is being discussed. Is it still that our partners' information must be protected by NATO permission, it cannot be allowed to travel, and it must be clear to all of us that there is no point in trading here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U45	Thank you. It is the case that different levels of information are subject to different requirements and different levels of information access authorisation conditions are also laid down. In other words, the higher the level of security the information is, the more rigorous and the tighter the security clearance is for the person seeking access.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U46	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! For me, the work of the National Guard Committee still involves secrets. But listening right now to this discussion that has broken out here, where access to secrets is found to be a violation of fundamental rights, well, I don't know. At the same time, I know very well that foreign countries are very often trying to access state secrets, and that, of course, has succeeded. For example, the latter is the case of Herman Simm, where NATO's secrets went about. I have a provocative question for you, which I myself, of course, know the answer to. What do you think about the fact that some members of our Riigikogu are interested in the fact that such information should be known to everyone and refer here to the violation of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U48	Thank you very much. I certainly do not think that there are members of the Riigikogu who, out of malice, would require access to all secrets. I think it is the responsibility of every member of the Riigikogu to check the possible breach of the Constitution. After all, our aim is primarily to make laws that comply with the Constitution, and such a question is justified in every way. But I would like to stress once again: when the current law was passed in the composition of the XII Riigikogu, there was no constitutional interference. With the legislative amendment that we are debating today, we are not changing the nature of the law, but merely introducing a time definition that was not there before.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U49	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U50	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu! Dear waitress, Kalle Grünthal almost took away my subject here, but I would like to emphasise that the issue of Estonia's reputation in keeping state secrets should have an extraordinary focus on us because the biggest leak of classified information in NATO history occurred just through Estonia. Herman Simm didn't even go to the village, he went straight to Moscow. He is the citizen who managed this leak, and we should perhaps do even more than usual so that nothing like this can happen again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U51	Thank you for your comment. Yes, indeed, the question of trust is one very important thing in our dealings with our allies and partners. As John said, this trust has been undermined on many occasions and, in this context, we see even more of the need for security controls because, yes, it is easy to lose trust, but it is more difficult to restore it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U52	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U53	Thank you. Dear waitress, Do you have any information on how access to secrets is regulated by our partners? Have there been such embarrassing situations, for example, that representatives of the National Defence Committee of some of our partner countries have simply been pushed away from some of the events and left at the door?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U54	Thank you. I don't have that kind of information.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U55	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U56	Good waitress! Good manager! I'm asking now, and I hope you have the answer to my question. Since such a thing was accepted in the XII formation for five years or more, how many members of the Riigikogu who have been on the Defence Committee have been deprived of this authorisation? Can you give me that number?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U57	One member of the Riigikogu has not received the permit today, but there have been people now I can read out immediately, for example, 'New members (two members) appointed by the National Defence Committee during the XIII Riigikogu did not comply with the requirements and did not submit documents. The third new member of the National Defence Commission, who failed to submit documents, was appointed to the second standing committee after seven months. ' Then, as I said, this problem was already present in the previous Riigikogu, and that is why this legislative amendment is before you today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U58	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U59	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Perhaps we could settle a little bit more of this controversial issue. It is probably important to mention that the mandate of each member of the Riigikogu is accompanied by a state secret authorisation, but this is for the duration of his membership. The same thing is actually NATO's secret with a secret when going to apply for it and getting permission to access it, it's only for a certain period of time. Maybe you can specify what period it is and how it will end. In fact, I think that this could be an important part of this constituent part of the Constitution, so that we know where it is, if it is granted as a special right to a Member of Parliament and according to the need for knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U60	Thank you. Secret permission is granted, yes, as the chairman of the committee has already said, for a fixed period, i.e. four years, i.e. the time of membership of the Riigikogu. If a Member is re-elected to the Riigikogu and goes back to the National Defence Committee, he must apply for permission again. So many members of the National Defence Commission in the Chamber have done so. Once again: if any member of the Riigikogu knows the constitutional gesture here, then the National Defence Committee is, of course, ready to discuss, listen to this issue, and all amendments are welcome. I have nothing more to add than to repeat: if the current law was passed in the composition of the XII Riigikogu, there was no constitutional interference.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U61	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I expect, of course, that, if such a legislative amendment has been under discussion in the Commission and consensus has been found, background studies or forces should say that this barrage does not exist in this way and we should not worry about it. Of course, the Commission will be able to test it again in the course of the further procedure and ask for further information. But in this debate I had a completely different question today: did the Commission also discuss possible permits for members of the government and the number of members in the government who have not applied for this authorisation or have not passed it? In my opinion, it is equivalent or even more severe.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U63	Thank you. Yes, there can certainly be a discussion about who could have these permits, but the initiator of the draft law, the National Defence Commission, is not in this context intended to open this issue more widely. The initiator of the draft act is to improve its internal organisation of work, its internal organisation of work within the National Defence Commission. But yes, everyone has the opportunity to propose amendments to this effect. However, my sentimental point of view is that if this issue is very open, it will be far removed from the wishes and aims of the initiators of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U64	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Hanno Pevkur, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U65	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Before I go to what happened in the Commission, I may still have to explain the background and principles of this draft. Firstly, indeed, as mentioned, this provision was adopted on 9 December 2014 and concerns the substantive question of who has access to classified external information. The current draft concerns only the setting of a time limit in order to apply for authorisation. Classified external information is information stored and created by our partners. The Estonian state secret is something that we all have automatic access to in this hall, precisely because of the mandate of the people and the decision of this hall that we can deal with Estonian state secrets. But access to state secrets is always linked to one important detail, which is a need to know. None of us can assume that he can march into the Defence Police Department, the Foreign Intelligence Service, or any other facility where state secrets are kept, and demand that he get to know this secret. No, no one has that right. State secrecy is always linked to the need for knowledge and access to state secrecy is always linked to whether it is necessary for your work or not. And that always leaves a note. When you examine the document, you will always write a sign in the form of the signature, the date and the time at which you became acquainted with one or the other state secret. This information is for those who have not had much contact with the subject. Now that this provision was written into the law in 2014, it was indeed discussed who needed security clearance in the case of classified external information. I would like to emphasise once again: with external information. The question then was that, for example, the President of the Riigikogu, who is replacing the President of the Republic, could also have automatic access to classified external information. Because we have a law governing classified foreign information, a state secret and a law on classified foreign information, which states that there is only one in Estonia that is not subject to control for access to classified foreign information, it is the President of the Republic. All other people, including the members of the Government of the Republic, must be checked in order to have access to classified external information. So much background. But it was also realised at the time that the Chairman of the Riigikogu could not be released from this inspection either if he had to consult classified foreign information. This concerns EU classified external information and NATO classified external information. During the preparation of this draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the issues were also quite similar as in this Chamber, for example, whether and how this relates to the exercise of our mandate. There is a simple understanding: this does not interfere in any way with the exercise of our mandate, even if the faction of the Riigikogu has decided to appoint one member as a member of the National Defence Committee and this member of the National Defence Commission does not undergo the requested security check, then he will be able to continue as a member of the National Defence Committee, no one can take away the right to participate in the National Defence Committee. The difference is that if the members of the National Defence Committee either receive a security brief or become familiar with a location that is subject to a higher restriction on access to secrecy than there is a state secret, this discussion or this meeting, or this inspection, cannot simply be part of this particular member of the Riigikogu. Perhaps the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu to participate in the work of the National Defence Committee is not directly limited by this provision, as the National Defence Committee mostly deals with non-secret information and, if there is secret information, it is often a secret of the Estonian state, but as I said, we all have access to state secrets due to the mandate. The second question raised was who could be, or who should be, subject to a security check. Because the current Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu really says that this additional check on classified foreign information must be passed by a member of the National Defence Committee. There are still people in the Riigikogu who may actually be exposed to classified external information. In particular, this concerns the Riigikogu Board and the Security Authority Monitoring Committee, which also receives a brief, which may include classified external information. Therefore, it was actually under discussion whether, in the course of this draft, it would be possible to extend the number of people who are obliged to undergo security checks for access to external information, but at the moment, before the first reading, these changes were not made. The second issue raised during the Commission's debate is a bit semantic, but partly substantive, and concerns what has come out in practice. The person standing here is, among other things, a member of the Security Authority Oversight Commission, who must, after having obtained an assessment from either the Foreign Intelligence Service or the Defence Police Department of whether or not he or she has passed the check, state definitively whether or not he or she has passed the check. This was also the answer to Mr Šorin's question, indeed, a substantive check is carried out either by the Foreign Intelligence Service or by the Defence Police Department, according to what the Security Authority Supervisory Commission decides, but the decision whether or not a person has passed is made by the Security Authorities Supervisory Commission. In practice, the question has also arisen as to whether the word pair 'is passed' means only passing through positive or whether it could also mean passing through negative. It is therefore likely that before the second reading in the Commission, the question of whether the draft law should be supplemented by the words 'has passed through the requested volume' or so needs to be discussed again. But that's what we'll come back to before the second reading. In preparation for the first reading, there was also a topic in the air as to whether we should complement it, so that if a person requests something, then this request means that he passes the requested amount, not only does it say 'has passed', which may also have a negative meaning. Mr Kruuse asked earlier about the members of the government. Yes, indeed, we also had a question of members of the government in the Commission for a moment. They pass a security check if they wish to have access to NATO classified foreign information as well as Estonian state secrets, because a member of the government may not come from this hall and the special right to access Estonian state secrets due to the status of a member of the Riigikogu will not extend to him. So if a member of the government wants access, he's gonna have to go through that check. These were the issues we had in the Commission. The proposal from the point of view of the amendments is the usual one: to stick to ten working days, then it will be possible for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to come before you for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U66	Thank you. You also have questions, Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U67	Thank you, good manager. Good performer! I may have misunderstood, but you said that this bill, even if it were adopted, will still not prevent a person who does not pass the security check from participating in the work of the National Defence Commission, with the exception of NATO's secrets. That would be self-evident. However, it seems to me that this wording says the opposite: if it does not pass within a certain period of time, a new member of the National Defence Commission will be appointed in his place. It's like it still excludes his work in the National Defence Committee. Or how is that to be understood?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U68	Thank you. Maybe I didn't make any sense. So far, it has been a practice that if people have not passed the check, that is, in our case, the person has not applied, right, then we do not know whether or not he has passed the check. So, yes, it has been a practice so far that a person has been able to continue his work as a member of the National Defence Commission even if he has not passed the check. There are no changes to the draft law on what you have just referred to, the status of a member of the Riigikogu Act § 19 (5). I'm about to make sure I'm not wrong. [[Browse papers.]] § 19 (4) of the current Act says: 'The security audit is carried out on every member of the Riigikogu who has been appointed as a member of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. 'If a member fails to pass a security check, a new member of the National Defence Commission shall be appointed. In other words, it already exists in the current law, simply in practice we have had a contradiction in the sense that there is no provision for a person to do this in time. This, however, allowed a person to be a member of the National Defence Commission without a security check.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-13_U69	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 121. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 28 February at 4 p.m. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Today's trial is over. See you tomorrow! I'm sorry! See you next week, Monday! Closure of the sitting at 10.55 a.m.
