ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U1	Honourable Riigikogu and members of the government! Let's start this year's final briefing. First, please, let's do the presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U2	22 members of the Riigikogu are present, 79 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of the Interior Alar Laneman and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Reinsalu. As always, the members of the pre-registered Riigikogu will first be able to ask the question, who will also have the opportunity to ask one more question, and then one additional question may be asked from the hall. The length of the question is two minutes and the answer time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U3	The first questioner is Indrek Saar and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U4	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! We have been talking to you here for months about how important it is to look a little further ahead during this health crisis and to deal with prevention activities in order to minimise the impact of the current health crisis on our society. As we can see, the prevention government has not wanted to deal with and has not thought through how to act at what stage. And that's how over-the-counter decisions are made, just like we saw last week. Well, it doesn't even make sense to ask, because it is clear what choice you made in a situation where you felt that things had gone critical now. Several scientists also pointed out that the government has failed to decide that the government does not have a plan. You obviously put the main difficulties of the health crisis on the shoulders of families with children. Your coalition partners have particularly often talked about supporting families with children and that this is important to them. I don't know how they feel about it, but together you made that decision. Schools were shut down, families with children get the most load to stop it from spreading faster. At the same time, you left the taverns and other amusement facilities open. My question, however, is that a lot of people from all over Estonia have started to ask in this context in recent days what happens when all those people who planned to go to the spa during the holidays, for example, in Narva-Jõesuu, wanted to go to the tavern, are now going to the tavern or spa in Tartu, Rakvere or Pärnu. What measures do you intend to take to ensure that the spread of the virus does not accelerate further as a result of these decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Good questioner! Happy Question Time Watchers! First of all, I thank you for this question, but I do not understand where the idea that the people of Estonia are scary taverns is taken from, only going to the tavern. The Social Democrats here want to conjure up a picture like this. I think that is certainly not the case. Today, we have seen that we have actually been able to keep society fully open in principle for three and a half months in this very difficult health and economic crisis. There are certain limitations that we have made. Today's news of our economic situation and economic policy choices tells us that Estonia is much better than feared, as Eesti Pank says. If, in September, he still predicted the economic downturn this year to be 3.8% or, sorry, the real growth of the economy minus 3.8%, then now minus 2.5%. Eesti Pank forecast growth for the following year was 0.2% in September, and now the forecast is 2.9% better. This shows that in the economy we have received from European countries, one can say, the least hit, and that is a good thing. If we look at the health crisis you asked about today, we can also say that if we look at the number of deaths in Estonia, it is one of the smallest in the European Union. Of course, we are on very gentle ice all the time, and we must always work to ensure that the situation does not get worse. Now, as far as your claim that there is no plan, there are no decisions and what you all said is a very clear, very concrete plan. There is a very specific dialogue with scientists, economic specialists, Health Board. You said we were going to attack families with children first. I don't agree at all, I'm sorry, Mr. Indrek Saar. For 3.5 months we have kept the Estonian education system fully open. However, the health authority made it clear that infection has also increased among children, very much in schools, in different classes, and in school grades. And really, we decided at first for seven days of school not to go to school. At the same time, consultations, internships, olympiads, individual training are allowed, all of which are permitted. Those schools that want to do distance learning can now. So I'm saying these decisions were put on the table by the science council. They came up with this proposal, I don't think I'm wrong, on the morning of December 8. Then we took another 24 hours for discussion in the government, and so a political agreement was born. On December 10th, 48 hours later, we made these decisions to limit the spread of the virus before the holidays.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U6	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U7	I would like to thank you for your answer, but I can't, because you didn't really answer my question. You were very quickly inclined to demagogy, which shows that you are on quite slippery ice. I have never claimed that the people of Estonia are taverns. I told you the amusement facilities were open. It also concerns spas, theatres, concert halls and so on. All this is possible everywhere in Estonia. Keep going! Except in Ida-Virumaa, who has received the toughest restrictions. And I haven't said anything about attacking families with children. I say that, in this crisis, bringing down the infection indicator has been put on families with children in particular. For them, a new situation was created overnight and a lot of confusion could have been avoided if these plans had been clearly communicative in the past. But here's my question. I would like to learn something specific from you, given that a large part of the economic activity in Ida-Virumaa has stopped because there must be strong restrictions. What is your specific plan so that there is no economic and social disaster in Ida-Viru County, so that people have sufficient incomes to keep businesses alive in this situation? What are the specific actions that you are now known to do with this 2.1 million? And what else are you planning to make Ida-Viru County come out of this situation with as little loss as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U8	Thank you very much for this question. First of all, what sounded like at the beginning of the question. We really see today that cultural institutions are open all over Estonia, the economy is basically open all over Estonia. This is, in fact, the result of all very great efforts. And here I want to say very much thanks to the theaters, very much thanks to the cinemas, different concert organizers, as many as there are. In fact, trust measures are being followed. The dispersal requirement, the 2+2 requirement is respected, the halls are not filled by more than 50%, and this has certainly been a very, very big effort on their part. So thank the cultural people so much for that! The Ministry of Culture, headed by the Minister of Culture, has certainly done a very good job here. Now, the truth is, if we do these closures, whether it's a spa or it's an entertainment facility, I think it's always a legitimate question whether the government is going to make up for it economically or not. Does the government support or not? You ask about Ida-Virumaa why these decisions came first in Ida-Virumaa. Clearly, this is not just the problem of Ida-Virumaa, and I would also like to say this from this speech chair of the Riigikogu. This is not just the problem of Ida-Virumaa, it is the concern of Estonia as a whole. Can't say it's Narva's problem or Kohtla-Järve's problem or Sillamäe's problem. This is a common concern for Estonia as a whole. The common concern of Estonia as a whole! And it is clear that closures were needed to reduce the spread of infection. It is a strong preventive measure so that we can get infected in this area. We said as soon as these restrictions came, that we would compensate, we would support. We will support these entrepreneurs. And for today, we have decided that not only will we separate this 2.1 million, as you said. This money goes directly to entrepreneurship, but 3 million more go to recreational activities, recreational education and sports activities both in Ida-Virumaa and across Estonia. These are the decisions taken on 10 December by the Government of the Republic concerning restrictions across Estonia. How do you implement this 2.1 million? We know today that there are a few hundred companies in the order of magnitude, which according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications are subject to restrictions in Ida-Viru County. As I said here yesterday in the Riigikogu Chair, we base our salary on these companies this November. This is the identity if we support these companies. And companies should, in my opinion, be quite free to use this grant either for rent payments, investment or labour salaries, so that people remain in work. For them to have the belief that once the restrictions end, they will continue their work, that companies will continue their daily business and business activities. Of course, this means that the company must be alive, but there must also be employees.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U9	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U10	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Thanks never much, and it's always very good to say it verbally. Gratitude is a great and important part of being human. I also start by thanking you: I thank all the municipalities that give their people masks. Last Wednesday, I asked the Minister of Finance for this issue in his duties as Prime Minister, and he said that he did not know when the re-usable masks ordered by the state would reach the local authorities. He said he wasn't very familiar with the subject. As far as he knows, there was a little problem with their quality, and I think it had to be reorganized. Last Wednesday, three municipalities called me, I called two, asked for more. Those masks weren't there. Indeed, both Tallinn and several other municipalities have bought masks for their budgets and distributed them to uninsured people. Maybe you can say something. It's possible these masks have arrived by now. Perhaps you can tell me what was the problem with these re-use masks? The municipalities also had a question as to why not each municipality could have ordered these masks. Of course, the number of recipients of income support is known to the state, and according to it, two reusable masks were to be distributed to everyone. Why could municipalities not have ordered them more quickly? Also, if this is now a joint procurement, the person to whom they are to be distributed could be left to the decision of the local government. I understand that this answer is not an immediate response, but I would be very grateful if you would send it to me in writing if you could not reply exactly at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U11	Thank you very much, Helmen Hunter, for this question. First of all, this general principle. The government said, I don't think I'm wrong, on 24 November, that there's a duty to wear a mask indoors. And we also immediately said that we consider it right to give personal protective equipment to underprivileged people, families, people in difficulties, just masks for free. You paid tribute to the local authorities here, and I will join in. Indeed, local authorities have distributed a lot of masks, but in fact, the Police and Border Guard Board has also distributed masks. I also want to say thank you to the police. Yesterday I had a meeting with the Prefects of both the North and South Precincts. Both said a lot of people don't really have masks. The police have increased their numbers, and the last weekend there was about 30% more outside, and this will be done in the next few days. The police are keeping a bigger force out of trade, not only in major shopping centres, but also in gas stations, for example, so that people wear masks. I also had a meeting yesterday with representatives of Estonia's largest shops, the leaders. They say that there are also examples where the private sector also distributes free masks. So I will also say thank you to the representatives of the private sector here. As far as your question is concerned, I'm trying to answer as much information as I have right now. Well, first of all, we really promised to use the masks, but we saw that this process was going to get a little long, and we quickly changed the decision to give one-time masks. Of course, we will continue to want to give these re-usable masks as well. One-time masks should be there, as far as I know. It is meant to be a 50-year-old package for anyone who is on the list of those in need of local government assistance. We've already done that. Now, these reusable masks, I'll let you know that date later, if that's a specific question. But I have a challenge to you: you said that you have been approached by three municipalities who have not received these one-time masks either. Please let me know! If we're talking about these recyclable masks, I'm sure I'll be able to share that information with you soon. But yes, I think it has been a very sensible and correct principle that when the duty of masking came, the state really helps those people who are struggling. It is clear that the mask must be changed quite diligently, three to four times a day, and, of course, when you buy large packages of masks, it is quite a noticeable departure in a person's monthly budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U12	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U13	Let's go to Question 2. Asks Kaja Kallas and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U14	Thank you. Prime Minister! The corona situation is bad in Ida-Viru County and the government has adopted stricter restrictions to contain it. Any limitation should also be accompanied by a decision on how to compensate for the damage caused by it. Yesterday, the decision came that Ida-Virumaa companies were supported by 2.1 million. But let us look at the whole picture! Last week we had the adoption of the state budget, during which it turned out that 6.4 million were distributed in the Riigikogu's rooftop money alone. If you add 8 + 8 + 8 million to the coalition parties in the state budget, the total amount of roofing money is actually more than 30 million. When we dealt with the state budget, we constantly drew attention to this. Given that we are having a health crisis, please stop sharing this roofing money, this sharing it with your own people! These amounts should be directed towards mitigating the corona crisis. Looking at these figures, how small the support numbers for Ida-Viru County are, 2,1 million versus 30 million, do you regret that such decisions were made when the state budget was drawn up that so much was allocated to the roof? It is as if there were not much left for the entrepreneurs of Ida-Virumaa and for the other entrepreneurs who are actually suffering from this crisis. But the economy must continue to work and people must have jobs and bread.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U15	Thank you for this question. If you don't mind, I'll devote five seconds to Helmen Hunter. I got the information that next week we're gonna get those re-use masks. Broadcast should be in the second half of the week. The disposables already went out, like I said. I am delighted, Mr Kallas, first of all that the government immediately said that we are going to support Ida-Virumaa, we are going to support entrepreneurship in Ida-Virumaa. When these restrictions came, we said that we considered it right to support Ida-Viru County. And I also think it is very positive that we found this support key or its support solution so soon, which I had the opportunity to introduce to you, honourable Riigikogu, yesterday. Across Estonia, EUR 5 million will be allocated. If we are talking only about entrepreneurship, Ida-Viru County will receive 2.1 million euros, but in the cultural field, for example, relating to adult education and recreational activities, only Ida-Viru County will receive EUR 2.1 million more, plus sports in Ida-Virumaa over EUR 60000, as well as children's and young people's recreational education and activities in Ida-Viru County EUR 200000, private education in Ida-Viru County over EUR 5000. These are the sums that we see in front of Ida-Viru County. If you add them all together, you can safely say that it is well over EUR 2.5 million. Now, your question is that different amounts have been allocated from next year's state budget for roofing money, as you mentioned, i.e. regional investments. What I want to say is that, in my opinion, a very large majority of this money goes where this investment is really needed, this support. You have highlighted the principle of large investments. I am absolutely convinced that a great many sports investments, after all, always ask about the long plan of how we stand up for people's health, going to the sport infrastructure. It helps keep people healthy, it helps us move more, we do more sports. You're asking if this 2.1 million is a little little or a lot. I understand the opposition: of course, it is said to be few and it will be late. But we have to consider that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications estimates that the turnover of these companies in December 2019 was 2.77 million, say 2.8 million. But the closure of the Ida-Virumaa economy did not start on 1 December. This decision came on 10 December and, in principle, the closures started on 13 December. At least 10 days of economic activity took place there in December. On the basis of this fact, and also of the fact that, in fact, 2019 has certainly been a better year for the economy than 2020, which is the year for COVID, I think it is quite fair support that we can give today to the region of Ida-Virumaa, to its businesses and to the people working in these companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U16	Thank you. Echo Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U17	Thank you. However, the orders of magnitude over 30 million versus 2.1 million are still very, very different. 30 million you share with yourselves and with the rooftop money, I recall, the biggest amount of money went to the anti-abortion movement. This is very difficult to link to regional investments. The second comment is on the movement of people. You're crossing the line that we need to move more. At the same time, for example, the three of us are not allowed to move outside. There's a certain contradiction here. But I understand that there is a crisis right now, and we are trying to prevent people from getting sick again so that we can control the coefficient of infection. I think it's all very right. But I'm gonna ask you again about the money. Do you really think that this 2.1 million to Ida-Virumaa will be sufficient in a situation where the unemployment fund alone paid the compensation in the spring of 1182 Ida-Virumaa employer 8630 employees within four months 13.8 million? I understand that this is a much longer time, but if you look at it, there are quite a few employers there, and many of these employers are left, and there are many workers who need help. Do you think this 2.1 million will be enough to help Ida-Virumaa and keep the economy going even after these restrictions end? Will these entrepreneurs survive?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U18	Thank you. I would first of all like to thank you for the fact that, in my opinion, the whole idea that yes, we are in a crisis was reflected in this issue. It would certainly be much easier to just attack than to say that there is a crisis in healthcare, that there is a crisis in the economy, that there is a crisis in education. There is a crisis in every area of life. The truth is, as I said, Ida-Viru County has been hit the most. But once again, there is no reason to say that this is just an issue for Ida-Viru County. At one point the infection was higher in Tartu, at one point in Tallinn, in the spring it was in Saaremaa. So this is a common concern for the whole of Estonia and a joint effort is needed here. Now, outside we can actually, when we're talking about 14 counties, do sports, I guess I'm not wrong right now in groups of ten people, plus there might be a tutor. It's actually allowed right now. Now, do 2.1 million... I made quick calculations. You say the unemployment fund measure was in the spring. It's true. At present, there is no unemployment fund measure in terms of wage support, but we have to take into account that all this recreational education, sport and recreational activities, and recreational activities for both adults and young people, are linked to a large number of non-profit organisations working with trainers. The total amount for Ida-Viru County is 2.9 million, let's say about 3 million. There are 3 million to compensate for the restrictions currently decided to be imposed for three weeks. So 3 million for three weeks. If you ask whether this is sufficient, then, as I said, we took as a basis the turnover of December last year in these companies. This is the input of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and affects a little more than 1300 people. And I think that what we now give in the amount of 3 million is both recreational activities, recreational education, sport and, very specifically, entrepreneurship and Ida-Virumaa alone, I believe that this is a strong message for entrepreneurs in Ida-Virumaa. Yes, this restriction came from the government, but this support is sufficient in the sense that these companies can continue to operate, to continue economic activity next year. This gives the employees of these companies the assurance that they can continue to be in their own business. Of course, this may not mean 100% certainty, but I think the main thing is that the government has made a restriction, but it has come very quickly to help with subsidies. This is the very right specific message for entrepreneurs in Ida-Virumaa. So I believe that this is a completely proportionate measure and that companies can move forward and continue their economic activity in 2021.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U19	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The problems in Ida-Viru County are much bigger than this money can solve. And only money doesn't get it. Ida-Viru County still feels very separate and left alone. But we'll come back to the money anyway. These sums, which you have read out, 2 million and hundreds of thousands more here, go mainly to wage subsidies, and this money will continue until the end of the year. But what happens next? The restrictions won't go off in January. Mass vaccination in Estonia can begin in the second quarter according to an optimistic scenario. The situation at the beginning of next year is exceptionally serious. If you come to the state budget, this year there was a big, big package that your party members advertised on Facebook, which amounts to 2 billion. The actual volume is three times smaller. But if we look at next year's budget, there will be no such support package money. Many countries are now making plans for the second wave for next year. Even now, rescuers are making the next rescue packages. We do not have it in the budget, as was said here during the budgetary procedure. Only this year the amounts will not be used and they will be postponed to the next year. Now we're talking about a few million. I'm asking you, what happens next? If this couple of million, which goes mainly for wage subsidies, and this wage subsidy also needs to be paid in January and February and maybe more, then what money will these measures be continued for?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U21	Thank you, Mr Sõerd. Now I'm a little confused. You're trying to disbalance me here, I understand that. On the one hand, you say that there must be more money, there must be more investment, I know that very well. On the other hand, you have always been the one asking what the balance of the budget is. We've had a lot of debate with you. And I think that this has been a positive debate, that is how conservatively it must be when it comes to budgetary balance issues. Now you're saying put on more, put on more! These are a bit of conflicting principled positions. But first, Ida-Virumaa is with Estonia. This is the part of Estonia, just as there are Hiiumaa, Lääne-Virumaa, Põlvamaa, Võrumaa and Pärnumaa. Ida-Virumaa is not left alone, Ida-Virumaa is not left alone. Ida-Virumaa investments, subsidies have been very focused in the last four years and investments have also been made in Ida-Virumaa. You're asking about the future. First of all, what I replied to the honourable Kaja Kallas was linked to the restrictions imposed by the Government of the Republic on 10 December. This 2.1 million, which goes into business, or, as I said, about 3 million to Ida-Viru County together, of course it does not solve Ida-Viru County issues. After all, this has not been a prerequisite for either a question or an answer. But we are talking about these specific restrictions and concrete support for the next three weeks. Now you ask what happens next in Ida-Virumaa. Yes, indeed, the Riigikogu has adopted the budget for next year, for which I am extremely grateful to you. Thank you for that. The budget envisages very high countercyclical investments. The budget envisages an increase in research expenditure for the first time in Estonia, an increase in R &amp; D funding to 1% of GDP, as well as an increase in defence expenditure. For Ida-Viru County, Estonia and I have stood as a wall. Like a wall! I also mean the reboot plan and the MFF. It has now been approved in Europe. There will be a great deal of basic investment in Ida-Viru County. We will take the same fair transfer fund of EUR 340 million. It's mainly related to Ida-Virumaa. We had very interesting discussions at government level. For example, Narva Hospital has 35 million benefits. The construction of a new hospital in Narva, if this application goes through when negotiating with the European Commission, I will, of course, add it here. We actually see that these are very large investments that are made through Estonian taxpayers in Ida-Virumaa, but not only through them. The funds will also be allocated from the various funds of the European Re-launch Plan. Of course, the main fund is the same fair transfer fund. So really our focus is that Ida-Virumaa must not be left in trouble. I fully agree with that, and I will stand up for them by holding hands with you. We are together in Ida-Virumaa and support Ida-Virumaa!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U22	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U23	Question 3. It will be presented by Lauri Läänemets and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U24	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! My question concerns the next holidays, Christmas, and the fact that, as we know, at Christmas, people move around a lot and meet a lot of people. And probably a lot of people from Tallinn travel to rural areas to visit their relatives and close acquaintances. If we look at the various countries of the world, including the European countries around us, we can see that there is considerable concern about this. People are given recommendations and even rules on how many people in each household, for example, three or five, can meet people in another household. And you can't celebrate Christmas with more than ten people. Specific recommendations are given to people and specific rules are laid down. These rules, which currently apply in Estonia and concern communication and contacts, we all know. They are intended to operate in public places and concern, I don't know, sports activities, and there are also restrictions on activities of interest and education. The restrictions on the opening hours of entertainment and dining places and how many people may be on the premises of the store, we also know. But my question to you is this: is there any suggestion coming from the government in connection with Christmas, or is there some kind of over-estonian other rules, how to act so that people can understand what they should do before the holidays, how long, for example, they can't stay anywhere in public? Are any suggestions coming from the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U25	Thank you. Dear Lauri Läänemets, if I may first say, to your credit, that I recognise in your case the handwriting of such a good local government leader with great experience. What you say still shows great maturity. Yes, the holidays are coming, and the risk of the virus spreading unless we give specific recommendations is very high. So, in this sense, very much recognition! You're really coming here to help us. In my opinion, the people of Estonia have quite well followed these principles, recommendations. I am not talking about responsibilities, I am talking about recommendations that have actually been met. I remember that when we had the first wave in spring, we said that this summer was right to rest in Estonia, and actually we saw that the people of Estonia were resting in Estonia. This gave the Estonian economy, the tourism sector, the accommodation institutions a great deal of security back, gave the opportunity to continue its activities, and it was very positive. Now you're asking if we'll come up with recommendations for the pre-Christmas period. We have long come up with these suggestions. Here, once again, an excellent work has been done by a scientific council with whom we have very good cooperation, such as Professor Irja Lutsar. After all, it is very clear that Christmas is Christmas in the family circle. It's Christmas in the family! I think this is a very clear recommendation and a call for all the good people of Estonia. This year's anniversary and the end of the year are not the time for us to celebrate in large groups, to celebrate in large groups of friends. No, it's not, because it's the virus that's gonna hurt, and that's where the virus's gonna run the fastest from person to person, and it's gonna spread. Young people are in great danger. Young people go to their homes after Christmas parties, go to their homes on January 1, where their parents, grandparents, and there is an infection. We can see that there is a great deal of infection in the family. So we've been making this recommendation for a long time: Christmas 2020 is in the family circle. And as I told you yesterday, we're all waiting for the vaccine. I am very pleased that I received a fresh document yesterday, the government approved the vaccination plan, and it was possible to introduce it here in front of you. I think it was very important. In fact, as I said yesterday, we are working to ensure that the autumn of 2021 should be different. So Christmas in the family! And we follow these principles: we disinfect the hands, we wear the mask indoors, and we follow the fact that the rule of 2 + 2 exists. I think these are the possibilities, if we work together, we can actually stop the infection. I had a conversation yesterday with all the major North-Estonian shopping center managers, and we confirmed that we would like to work together to ensure that confidence measures are used as firmly as possible for pre-Christmas purchases. I'm sorry I'm out of time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U26	It's okay. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U27	Thank you. Prime Minister! This suggestion that Christmas be spent in the family circle is very good, very reasonable, but it is actually necessary to specify what it means. I know a lot of families who celebrate Christmas in the family circle, but there are 30 or more people coming together. The family is just a big family, one person has several children and the right number of grandchildren, and they come together all over Estonia. In Germany, Angela Merkel said: friends, dear citizens, 'in the family' means that two households are most exposed. It's just so many people, isn't it? It calculates what statistically is the limit at which the probability of infection can still be kept lower. Unfortunately, we don't have it. There is another thing that other countries are doing and I do not see that the Estonian state is doing today. The government did it very well in the spring, but for some reason not now: I do not see recommendations and rules being repeated on TV, I do not see it very much on the Internet. There are government press releases and other reports that some pages print more and some less, but the communication that a person would know is not really visible. And probably people will act the way they themselves think how to behave. Really, you're right that people are good. But I still have a question. Did I understand correctly what you said that the restrictions that have been imposed and the recommendations that have been made are limited to that? That's all you're gonna say, and there's not gonna be any special suggestions for Christmas campaigns? For example, friends, only so many people can get together are such and such rules, stick to yourself and follow them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U28	Thank you, Mr Western Forest. I'm really going to tell you again that I recognize you as a strong head of government. What am I saying? We have said all this many times and we will continue to say so. We said cancel Christmas parties, cancel them in institutions, in different collectives. If you want to gather, then really, as you say, it can normally be a family or a department that comes into contact every day anyway. Eat Christmas gingerbread and drink glög and tea and do your sitting in a very small circle. We have made very strong recommendations in cooperation with the Scientific Advisory Board. We have made it clear: Christmas in the family. As you say, there really are some families that usually come together and where with children there can be freely 30 people: aunts and uncles, cousins, cousins, their children, grandfathers, grandmothers. Yeah, it could be a pretty big circle. I don't think it's worth having big Christmas parties like this this year. This is my appeal here, but it has been very clearly the call of the scientific council. We still have to consider the very important thing that the older people who come to Christmas parties or Christmas gatherings are in danger. Younger people are a very serious threat to those who are older. They could be infected at the Christmas gathering that takes place in the family circle. We know that a lot of people in 65+ who get sick are unfortunately getting to the hospital. The Estonian medical system now I say 'luckily' and Estonian doctors, Estonian doctors and nurses have shown their strength, their very high professionalism and very, very many people they are able to provide help, provide treatment, and people come home healthy from the hospital. Thank God! But we also have these examples that, unfortunately, people have to swear down, and COVID-19 is what takes a man's life. This is what we have to keep in mind at all times for these Christmas gatherings. Less contact! I also told the Riigikogu yesterday that if we can reduce 20% of our contacts every day, it is a very big step forward and this R0 is starting to fall. That is what we must all work towards today. I tell you honestly, Mr Western Forest, I believe in the people of Estonia. I believe in Estonian society, I believe that we are very wise to make our behavioral patterns before these holidays, during their holidays and at the New Year's Eve. We are working to get us under the infection and to do everything we can to ensure that the restrictions are as lenient as possible. Can the big restrictions come, as you ask? Of course they can. The government monitors this situation every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U29	Thank you. I'm going to finish this question... No, there are still questions. No? Then I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U30	Let's move on to the next question, No. 4. The questioner is Urve Tiidus and is answered by Minister of the Interior Alar Laneman. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U31	Thank you. Minister of the Interior! One of the Baltic countries, Lithuania, introduced yesterday, due to the surge in the number of COVID-19 infected people, extremely severe restrictions, i.e. blocking. The number of infected is about six times higher than Estonia's in absolute numbers. As the number of people infected in Estonia has also increased, the difference has tripled. At weekends and during holidays, Lithuania monitors compliance with the rules. The 250 checkpoints patrol the city streets and the police are assisted by border guards, military police and the Defence League. Of course, we would like the situation with our southern neighbours to quickly turn to the better, but this introduction will still lead me to the state of Estonia. There are no restrictions so strict in Estonia and, from the expert point of view, they are not necessary. If you quote Professor Lutsar, the situation in Estonia is not so bad that you should think about locking the state. However, he says that such a scenario cannot be ruled out. From a purely personal perspective, I can say that people have a self-defense instinct and are wearing much more masks than before. One thing that remains to be noted is news of police missions to public places where there are numerical and social distance restrictions for those present. Please share, honourable Minister of the Interior, information on how active it will be in the next two weeks, when people are in a holiday mood and restrictions do not exactly cheer up, police. What measures will you take, and how will they help people to feel secure in situations of restraint? There is a large difference between the number of people infected in Estonia and the number of people in need of treatment in the hospital. Does this affect police action?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U32	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for your question. The link between security and police is as follows in the current situation. We support the Health Board and have organised our activities in such a way that we strive to be flexible according to how the situation develops, what bottlenecks are and exactly what support the Health Board needs. In addition to the police patrolling, I can tell you that the police have sent people to the Health Board to help with the process capability of the Health Board if necessary. This is also what our other administrative authorities are doing. As far as masks are concerned, the principle of police action is as follows. If a mask check reveals that a person is not wearing a mask, then a note is made. If a person has a mask and puts it in front of him, that's the end of it. If there's no mask, there's a one-time mask. Nearly 10,000 of them have already been distributed. In the event of a conflict situation, the situation shall be clarified and, where appropriate, the circumstances fixed and the data transmitted to the Health Board. Now, what has gone unnoticed is that the police have not been able to stop doing their usual work. This has had to go on. And in order to do all the normal police work and the work caused by the crisis, the police have reorganized their work. The reserve has been used to help and has been created essentially such an 80-man-specific capacity of 78 men, one third of which has already been implemented. It has also been reorganized where patrolling is taking place, at what time, etc. So we can ensure that the situation is monitored, that we respond to the situation, and that we have quite precise cooperation with the Rescue Board, which is in charge of operations at crisis points. I am optimistic in this sense that the measures that the police are taking meet the need. And if we have to, we have a reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U33	Urve Tiidus, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U34	Thank you for that first answer. We all know that no one has the absolute knowledge of the behavior of the virus that causes COVID-19, the conditions of infection yet. Every day, new information and practical experience are added, and therefore restrictions and guidelines for residents vary somewhat, even radically, from country to country and from culture to country. The previous speaker, Lauri Läänemets, gave examples from Germany. In Iceland, for example, it is not recommended to sing Christmas songs together; in Sweden, don't even think about going under a Christmas tree without a mask. In the Nordic countries as a whole, their caution is above all the best protection. In Germany, as we have heard, the shut-down and the medical lecturer Taavi Tillmann, working at the UK Health Board's Corona Centre, find that national shut-down is also inevitable in December in Estonia. Maybe from a distance it seems more serious. Estonia has so far avoided shutting down, but today the Health Board's opinion was that neither the Health Board nor the police had the resources to verify compliance with the obligations imposed to prevent the spread of the Corona virus. As both police and border guards remain under your control, I will continue to ask about border controls in relation to the obligation to stay at home. How will it be ensured that border crossings comply with the isolation obligation? How is it controlled? Those who violate isolation requirements are also known to be threatened with a very large amount of forced money. Have you implemented it yet? In what case does such punishment come into play, and could it also affect those who gather in larger groups than allowed and even drink there? The amount is known to be EUR 9600. Please give examples of practical life on this subject!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U35	Thank you. The measures may be divided into two. It is very important to inform people alongside the activities of the Police and Health Board and other agencies, as well as the involvement of all important employees, such as those serving shops. On the border, I can say the following in more detail. There's regular police work: there's surveillance, there's a note. The intensity of crossing the border has decreased. There's been some glitches on the Russian side. In essence, only goods and individual local residents move across the border. You are absolutely right, there have been repeated cases of self-insulation violations, and they are further dealt with by the Health Board. Unfortunately, I can't tell you who and how much they've punished there. There is no need for such a revolutionary reform in police work. Everything works relatively normally, just very carefully. The police's own defence measures have also been added. If anyone has been in close contact, we need to reorganize the work. But there are two plans. As far as informing people is concerned, the PBGB wants to thank the customer servicemen in our trade agencies and security guards, whose work is extremely important in monitoring the wearing of masks, dispersal and compliance with other rules. So it's not just the agencies that operate, it's the agencies that are more of the contemporaries of everyone else who can help.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U36	There are no further questions on this subject. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U37	Next Question, Number 5. It will be presented by Heljo Pikhof and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U38	Thank you. Prime Minister! Many television viewers, especially those living outside the larger cities and watching the picture using an antenna, have noticed the letters SD in the upper left corner of their TV screen. They indicate that the coming new year will not bring them joy, but a loss of a traditional television picture. These are our compatriots whose income does not permit a lifestyle in which a new and more powerful television is acquired every few years. It was only when the television signal was stopped in analogue format and people had to buy a new TV or a digibox. Mr. Prime Minister! In order to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, our young people at work or school must leave the country's grandparents and other older relatives unvisited during the coming Christmas. Do you really take from many people an important channel of information and consider it the only way to entertain, discourage loneliness?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U39	Thank you, Heljo Pikhof! I want to look at "Happy 13," "Actual camera" and sports everywhere in Estonia, whether there is free distribution or other solutions that give greater opportunities for free distribution. Now for your question. I am making the same call here for this organisation, which is a national broadcasting and who, as far as I know, is still running its budget, has not decided to do so. I think it is important to point out that those people who are dealing with a free movement must, I think, have this in mind, should make an effort to switch to HD transmission, so that all people can continue to see the television picture. The national broadcasting budget, as far as I know, is over 40 million euros, which is a very large amount of money. It is quite interesting that, if the budget has not yet been finally adopted, it is still said that this piece is definitely needed to get a word about the reserve. The relevant proposals have been made by the national broadcasters, I know that, and the Ministry of Culture has reviewed them. We have actually discussed this once in the government, both with regard to the issue of the allocation of EUR 600000 for national broadcasting to ensure parallel transmission of television programmes between 2021 and 2022, i.e., it is EUR 300000 per year, and with regard to the allocation of EUR 400000 for the changeover to HD. As I said, this decision has not been made by the government. Our position was that this must be negotiated with the National Broadcasting Board and asked them to anticipate it in their budgets. I totally agree with that. There are quite a few households, there are families, there are farms with free distribution and there are no digiboxes. There are places where there is no Internet access or reception so bad that you can't really create it. We have such forest farms, yes and yes. So I really hope there's a chance that everyone will see the TV. But here, national broadcasting must also take its step.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U40	Heljo Pikhof, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U41	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. Informing the people of Estonia is the responsibility of our country. It cannot be delegated to anyone else. The state must reach all people with its message, and if that is not the case, someone else will reach these people, but this message may not be good to our country and our people. In the light of these considerations, the state maintains two television channels in Estonian and one with a high-quality programme in Russian. I think, and that is what the Head of Estonian National Broadcasting thinks, that the government's actions have led to them being rendered inaccessible to a large number of people. In order to continue the parallel transmission and keep the television image for people in the new year, EUR 300000 would be needed from the state budget. It is strange that the government will not find this EUR 300000 because, although 58% of people consider the marriage referendum unnecessary, you will have no harm to spend 2 million on it as long as the EKRE can organise its election campaign with the support of a referendum. In fact, it is up to your government to decide whether or not these people will see these TV programs next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U42	Thank you. First of all, I think your concern is very legitimate. The information needs to be delivered. And here before you in the last Question Time of this year, as the President of the Riigikogu said, I would like to say that national broadcasting does very high-quality journalism. His position in informing the people of Estonia is very important. The operational nature of this information is very important at this time of the Corona virus, and the private media have made a huge contribution to this. You're talking about rural areas. Very many people living in rural areas also receive this operational information thanks to the radio. Very many people listen to Rain Radio. Those with Russian native language listen to Radio 4. These radios, too, must be greatly appreciated. Now, the comparison with this referendum. I don't know where you're from, this referendum costs $2 million. I know that there have been amendments to the law that Estonia needs to change its electoral system. Today, the electoral service, in cooperation with the RIA, is doing these procurements and, despite the referendum, millions of euros are investing there! To create a new system. The possibility must be created, for example, of e-lists, so that we lose the obligation to vote in our home district on Friday, Saturday or Sunday. Then we can do it all over Estonia. So these investments are much higher. It is true that there will also be a referendum interface, but I do not know that it costs 2 million, as you say. You're saying it's in the hands of the government, whether people can see a picture of the telescope, whether people can see ETV, ETV2 and ETV+ or not. I say, "I'm sorry, but national broadcasting also has its responsibilities." You, the honourable Riigikogu, will also give very large amounts of money to national broadcasting through the adoption of the state budget. And national broadcasting, I think, has done quite well, has also developed its activities on digital platforms, for example, on the Err.ee website. It has become a very significant channel of communication in the daily media consumption of Estonian people. It is not quite the case that if the ERR has not adopted its budget, now the world will collapse because there are no 300,000. I think it is the responsibility of the ERR to provide for these amounts in its budget. But the government has indeed come to the aid of financing such a change in previous years. But it's not like I haven't adopted my budget yet, and now all of a sudden I want to get this piece like in a green hallway, in a separate hallway, without looking at the whole picture. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U43	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U44	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! I would remind you that both your current government and the previous government have decided to deal with this same problem in order to ensure that, allegedly, almost 100,000 televisions will not just start fluttering next year, for two years in a row, an additional EUR 300000 will be allocated to the ERR. This year, as we have heard, the Minister of Finance has taken a new stance and thinks that the ERR should find this money from its own budget. That's how I understand what you're saying. It's a big change. We are in the middle of December, and people have to decide whether they are spending money on buying something on their Christmas table, buying a little gift or buying something extra to see the TV, at least buying a digibox, or even buying a new TV. You are now spreading this responsibility, but this is an important policy change. You have not actually answered that question and point your finger at the ERR, although so far your policy has been that an additional government provision is correct. But I come to what you said: that in next year's state budget, the coalition has put close to EUR 1.8 million, among other things, to hold a referendum. Are you saying that it would be necessary to include this amount in the state budget even if the referendum was not planned in 2021?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U45	Thank you. I'll answer your first question first. I do not know now that this is a huge ideological, political issue. Once again, I think it is the responsibility of the ERR to convey this picture to the people of Estonia. I really think so, really. And if, at one point, the ERR says, before the new financial year begins, the national broadcasting says that it cannot allocate 300000 from its own budget, it is not a fair game in my opinion. Yeah, you're right. It has been the case that, in previous years, these EUR 300000 have indeed been allocated exceptionally. I will not at all rule out that perhaps next year we will do so exceptionally if, at some point, the ERR announces that it will no longer be able to produce this picture. But to say before the adoption of the budget, before the new financial year, that you will now give this money here, I think that this is not a quite correct approach. I do not at all rule out that if the ERR, for example, I do not know, says in the middle of next year or at the end of the year that it really is now such that we are no longer able to come out with our own budget and receive a few months' support at the end of the year in order to pass on this picture, this is a completely different approach. So I continue to believe that national broadcasting must also exert itself. And I think he's gonna do it. And what you're saying is right. Whether there are 100,000 or 60,000 viewers, it is not known exactly, but there are certainly a very significant number. In that, Mr Saar, I agree with you and Mrs Pikhof, who actually raised this issue. Now this second question of yours: is 1.8 million needed only for a referendum and, if there were no referendum, 1.8 million would not be needed? Once again, there is a transitional period. For the sake of the Estonian electoral system, different procurements are made through the electoral service and the RIA so that we are ready for local elections by 17 October 2021. There is indeed an interface to start referendums in the future if there is a desire. If there's a wish! Yeah, it takes separate money, like I said. I'm sticking to my position. You might want to rewrite exactly that 1.8 million. The point is, too, that if we want any services in the past, it is a question of whether they can be financed, for example, by structural funds or not by structural funds. In this case, it must be financed directly from the state budget. If that's what you want, of course I'll give you that information. But I want to say once again that this whole investment is not just for the referendum that is being made. We're going to a new election order. I have mentioned e-lists, for example, that will disappear from the voting obligation at the end of the week in its home district when the pre-vote is over. It gives you a wider range of opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U46	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U47	Next question, No. 6. The performer is Maris Lauri and the answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U48	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Next year, quite large amounts of European Union funds, 'new period' funds, plus recovery funds and other important programmes should be opened to Estonia. The amounts are very high. I've been trying to figure out for months what the government is planning to use this money for. It is clear that no one can name small and concrete projects, but there should be a broader idea. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to get that review. My colleagues have not succeeded either. The Committee on Monetary Affairs received one A4 paper, which was very general and where, in fact, there was less information than is available, for example, from the European Commission's website. It is clear that their pages do not have an overview of how Estonia plans to spend money. I do not believe that there is any understanding of what this money could be spent on, because different ministers have expressed their ideas about what could be done with this money when introducing the budget in different situations or speaking to the public. Please tell us when it is possible for members of the Riigikogu to get a little more detailed overview of why they want to spend these funds, what are the thoughts, what are the bigger projects?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U49	Thank you, Mr Lauri, for this question. I believe that a member of the Riigikogu must immediately receive information about the thoughts of major projects. I really think so. If you have not received it, I ask that you receive at least the information I have. I don't see there's a big secret. You're right, of course we're not going to see the details today, finish the lines. There are different applications and calls for proposals. And we still have to take into account one thing for this whole re-launch programme: it has not yet fully entered into force. Point one. Point two: we must also consider that if this comes into force, we will negotiate. It is not the case that Estonia says that we are doing this, whether it is a re-launching plan or a fair transition fund or a REACT-EU. This still means negotiations with the European Commission. These negotiations may be successful, but these negotiations may also be unsuccessful, which means that some projects will fall away. That was why I said, in answer to one question here, yes, we want to apply for 35 million from a fair transfer fund to Narva Hospital, for example, but it may not work if negotiations with the European Commission fail. First of all, this RRF or the re-launch facility. Support for Estonia is set at 1.1 billion euros. The total may change. 30% of the amount shall be broken down, inter alia, on the basis of GDP growth in 2021 and 2022. The obligation is to use 20% for the digital revolution, 7% for the green turn, and also to support the implementation of country-specific recommendations. The objective of the Fund is to support economic, social and regional cohesion, the green and digital revolution, health, competitiveness, resilience, education and skills, research, innovation, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, job creation, investment and the stability of the financial system. The digital revolution is EUR 221 million, and this is one plan for the RRF. The aim is to digitise and automatise businesses, develop e-construction, develop digital solutions as well as reform of national IT base services, reform of digital services for public enterprises and citizens, make public services event-based, proactive and also used by speechcrats. And there's an investment for the last mile in here. In addition, the aim is to put the current knowledge at EUR 409 million. Here is the local government's investment in light traffic routes, in which the Rohuküla railway is built on the sections of Turba-Ellamaa and Elllamaa-Rist, as well as the promotion of the introduction of hydrogen-wide technologies, support for the green turn of companies and the green fund. There is also the construction of the tram line of the Old Port of Tallinn. Well, some examples for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U50	Maris Lauri, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U51	Thank you, Prime Minister. I really hope that information arrives as soon as possible. I am convinced that, if we discuss the use of such large sums in public, we will find the best methods, the right places, even if some projects do not find support at European level. How many heads have several heads. My question now stems from the fact that, since disclosure has been very poor, I too have received letters about it. There is a frustration that some decisions have not been made in public, involving people. In the case of Ida-Viru County, letters came immediately. It was a great disappointment that they were preparing, but the government has already decided before the deadline. Do you plan to make more use of disclosure, really involve people more and discuss such larger projects and ideas as well, not just trends? Let's just say we're talking about Narva Hospital, for example, but maybe Ida-Viru County finds there are other funding places. Let me just give you an example, but more generally, let me see how you think this public discussion could go in the future. How will this involvement take place in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U52	Thank you. First of all, I think that such large frames must be put in place. It is clear that the establishment of large frames has been very firmly based on the inputs that have come to the harvest of various development plans, including the 'Estonia 2035' debate. But we have to consider that certain criteria apply to these frames, as I said. There is a great deal of talk now about the re-launching plan, but we can implement it if we invest in a green turn when we invest in a digital turn. The whole re-launch plan is still linked to the rapid start-up of the economy in the context of the Coronavirus pandemic. In addition, we are also making investments so that our health system and the fight against the whole COVID-19 are better funded. I will give some examples of health care in this same re-launch plan. But yes, I agree with you: how big the framework will be, it will be significant money coming from different funds if we succeed in the negotiations. I called hydrogen here, for example. I think that a total of 55 million has been allocated to hydrogen technology, and we want this money to be put into the development and implementation of this technology through various ministries. 55 million! Of course, this requires very serious negotiations, very serious procurement, different competitions. Health is also included in the financing of the same re-launch scheme. Narva Hospital has already been mentioned, but there is also the design and construction of Tallinn Hospital. There are also choppers from the Police and Border Guard Board to develop an ambulance flight service. There is also support for the export capacity of companies. For example, the same REACT-EU project for Estonia amounts to 177.3 million euros. There are more than 63 million COVID ready-to-be in this area, as well as improved access to health services, improved preparedness for crises over 47 million, recovery of 38 million in size, plus the labour market, social inclusion, food aid for the most deprived. The Fair Transfer Fund, which has been discussed a lot, has been very heavily focused on Ida-Viru County. But we are also discussing whether a certain part of Northern Jõgeva and Lääne-Virumaa could also be beneficiaries or not. As we know, the county of Ida-Viru has changed in recent years. This is where industrial investment support for Ida-Virumaa and support for increasing the research intensity of Ida-Virumaa business are important. It also includes further training and the creation of an attractive living environment related to the modernisation of district heating systems. These are some examples that I could give you in answer to your question. I'm trying to put this information together and send it to you as soon as possible. I do not see that this is any secret information that must be withheld from the members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U53	Thank you. There are no further questions on this subject, and I will stop looking at it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U54	Next question, Number 7. Performs Marko Mihkelson and responds to Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U55	Thank you. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, As internal policy and foreign policy are very closely interwoven for the current government, and the rabbit grip is coming from within quite a lot, the question is based on it. In your November presentation, you are, of course, very eager to fight for the marriage referendum, paying more attention to domestic issues, but this is also a very important issue in foreign policy. The marriage referendum, if any, will not only decide who in Estonia will be able to marry and who will not, but also what kind of world Estonia will be thoughtfully part of. The real choice of a referendum that divides society under the leadership of the government departments is whether Estonia remains true to the democratic model, including the Western model that protects the rights of minorities, or if under the weight of authoritarian-Patriarchal cynical populism, Estonia will fall back towards the Russian sphere of influence. It was only this summer that the current Putin regime in Russia made a decision through a referendum, which added exactly the same clause to the constitution of our neighbouring country, which is currently flirting with Estonian government departments. Do we really want to be like dictatorial Russia? People's surveyers also seek to use, among other things, the argument that in the neighbourhood of evil Russia, Estonia must not allow the attack on European values on the traditional society, as it may weaken the defence of the people. This argument doesn't mean anything, because the more broken and divided society is, the weaker its psychological defense. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Please tell me how your ardent struggle against minority rights both in Estonia and further away I am thinking of your order not to join ambassadors with statements for the protection of LGBT minorities, with the central aim of Estonian foreign policy, with the objective of maintaining and strengthening a unified democratic allied space.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U56	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, I have the last moment to stand here in the Riigikogu's chair this year. I want to wish all representatives of the people and all the lovely people of Estonia a beautiful and peaceful Christmas time, holiday time, and the fulfillment of all wishes in the new year and, of course, a strong health. We can handle this evil virus, we have our wisdom, our life experience, we can stick together at a critical moment, and we can do it. Now, there is no rabbit grip in Estonian foreign policy. When we speak of the European values of which I am a devoted supporter, they are, above all, the spiritual heritage and radiation of Athens, Rome and Jerusalem. And certainly family values are also part of the value of European culture. The question of whether the referendum itself will lead us to Putin-Russia. No, of course not! And this confusion would not have happened if you, a good questioner, Mr Prime Minister and I together had launched a referendum on the cohabitation law in the previous Riigikogu. We would have given the highest authority, to the people, to make this decision, with common accord and will. I think if this referendum had been held six years ago, Evgeny knows! just, there would have been a lot of tension in society, and we could have put this really wrong-built action behind us and focused on those issues that are central, which are very important in our country. I think it is wrong in your thinking that you are guided by the fact that we are like students who have to earn praise from outside by some standard. I say clearly and clearly that my understanding of the Estonian state and our future is this: we, born here, future generations and today's generations of Estonians, our people, are the masters of our future. We decide our own future, and we do it according to our own values and beliefs, as we see fit. We are not taking lessons from others about democracy and values, but, if necessary, we are courageously and clearly standing up for our principles both in international relations and, of course, here in the sacred house of the representative of the people. Dear friends, I want to tell you boldly and clearly that Estonia's foreign policy serves the national interests of Estonia. Of course, human rights and human dignity are inalienable, and they are a guiding principle, based on the spirit of our constitution, both for this high House of People's Representation and, of course, for all state officials, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And, of course, this year, the year of membership of the Security Council and the year of strengthening our international alliances, have also meant unambiguous and clear prevention of Putin's aggression. We will do so, and we will do so in common with all the free nations that agree with us. So there is no identification on the issue of the values we believe in, the Putin regime or its agenda. I completely reject it and, in fact, the good questioner knows it himself. Good friends! Times are complicated. We focus on what is important, we believe in ourselves, and we focus on the fact that, by common power, everyone's concentration, we can do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U57	Marko Mihkelson, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U58	Thank you. I wish you, Urmas, also a peaceful Christmas time and determination to defend Estonia's interests with our allies! Of course, you did not answer my question about how your ardent struggle against minority rights will help to strengthen this allied space. But when you talk about European values and that we don't have to let others teach us, it sounds very strange. I would actually like to hear you comment or agree or disagree with what we heard in the debate on the marriage referendum in this Chamber on Monday from the chairman of your party, who said, among other things, that Europe has come to Estonia very badly: Communism has come, fascism has come, and I understand that there has also come a need to stand up for minority rights. It's pretty appalling. I honestly do not understand what is happening in the heads of such people when comparing crimes of communism or fascism with those of minorities. At the same time, we know that some heads of state in Europe have also compared the LGBT issue with the crimes of communism in the same awful way. Good Urmas! You have done a great deal in your political career to stand up for those people who have been victims of the Communist regime. For the victims of the repressions, you have stood very firm. Have we really reached a position in 2020 where the head of the government department can compare the crimes of communism with the protection of the rights of LGBT or other minorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U59	Thank you. I am certainly just me, and everyone knows it, an unambiguous, clear supporter of minority rights, human rights, human dignity. I just had a conversation with the UK Minister last week. We discussed the resolution on religious minorities in the UN Security Council. This is a very important subject. Many nations in the world, or most, the lion's share of mankind, who cannot freely and unhindered exercise this right. There is no doubt about the right of people to privacy, private life, a uniform and equal treatment of people from a human rights point of view. Those who wish to attribute some kind of aggressive anti-human rights attack to this debate are misleading the Estonian people, but the Estonian people see through it. Of course! The Estonian people are wise. And second, I'm sure they want to spread confusion in the heads of our allies' friends, but I don't think this agenda is going to work. No one, of course, has expressed any position in favour of suppressing or distorting existing rights based on inalienable principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Now this question concerning Mr Seeder's speech. I think that was a distorted comparison. It is a fact that such approaches and, without doubt, the dragonically distorting agendas, anti-human ideologies, are indeed the legacy of the cultural space of the evening. We have not been freed from this legacy. This is a warning to us that it is not possible to change a person with utopias. These structures, utopian structures, are doomed to failure. This is our lesson from the 20th century. And it is our duty to the victims to convey this knowledge to the generations of our offspring. That is why it is also our duty to establish an international Communist crime museum here in Tallinn. Now, as far as it turns out, our foreign policy does not stand up for human rights in any way. I unequivocally reject it. Moreover, I am pleased to inform Parliament of an important decision. I have appointed a special plenipotentiary for human rights. It deals specifically with issues relating to the protection of inalienable human rights. And I am also pleased to inform Parliament about the pleasant news that I have already informed members of the Media Freedom Alliance of this is a prestigious international initiative, one of which is also an active member of Estonia. Namely, the international conference on media freedom will take place next year in Estonia, Tallinn. So Estonia is a self-confident, reliable country that respects people's rights, which stands for its own interests. And, of course, he also stands for the values on which our common understanding of how to continue to be an equal country among other European countries and nations in the future is based.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U60	It seems that there are no further questions on this subject. I'm gonna stop dealing with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U61	The next question is from Riina Sikkut, question 8. He'll be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U62	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! In order to prevent the spread of the virus, the government has implemented different restrictions over the last nine months. Today in this Chamber, a great deal has been asked about the restrictions applied in Ida-Virumaa and the compensation for damage caused by them. I will continue on the same subject. This debate, whether this 2.1 million is much or little, can only be assessed if there is an objective that we are making up for and for whom we are compensating. What is the purpose of government action? If you know what the government wants to achieve, you can choose the corresponding instruments. The government should also announce in advance that, if restrictions are imposed, whether the government will compensate, compensate and compensate for, whether people are kept at work, whether the survival of companies is guaranteed, whether a certain proportion of the loss of turnover or profit is compensated. What is what the government promises to businesses? Does this depend on how hard the operators make a sound? Does anyone who calls out louder get more? Are the different regions in any order of priority or priority for the government? Who will receive benefits more generously? Is agriculture preferable to tourism? These questions arise because the decision-making process is not clear, is not transparent, and the decisions are not sufficiently reasoned. In view of this earlier debate here, could you, in addition to the figures that have been heard here, open the way in which the government decides to compensate parties for the damage caused by restrictions, for example, in the case of Ida-Viru County?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U63	Thank you for this important question. I'll pick up where I stopped answering about Ida-Viru County. Ida-Viru County is really very important to us, very important. I myself went to Ida-Virumaa on Friday of the week before last to Sillamäe, Narva and Kohtla-Järve. The message is clear: it is not the problem of Ida-Virumaa today, it is the problem of Estonia as a whole, and we must act together, all together. All of us 1.3 million people must act together so that we can overcome this virus. I am absolutely convinced that, by acting together, we will be able to do this if we stick together. You, Riina, and I will break down this wall of opposition coalition here and work together to suppress this virus. We can do it, just like the Foreign Minister said. I share this position: we can do it. In the case of Ida-Viru County, we have very clear, very specific criteria in place. In fact, the sum of Ida-Viru County is over 2.8 million. Over 2.8 million! This concerns activities of interest and education of interest for adults; it concerns activities of interest and education of interest for young people. One measure is the Ministry of Culture, the other through the Ministry of Education and Research. Evgeny knows this very well, she has worked for the Ministry of Education and Science. Support for young people also means supporting sport through the Ministry of Culture in Ida-Virumaa, i.e. supporting private schools, private education. And now we reach this 2.1 million, namely EUR 2133000, which concerns businesses. Now I have to do the input we've received from our best specialists at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. They have given their input, having, of course, negotiated with other specialists. Yes, we must consider that there have been 204 closed companies. They concern jobs, a total of 1316. Now, unearned sales revenue. On the basis of the fact that there would be as many customers in December as there were a year ago, I also stressed that if the sales revenue of December 2019 were to be used as a basis, this amount would amount to EUR 2770000, i.e. approximately EUR 2.8 million. We have based these companies on last month, November's payroll and multiplied it by two. Such support could be given to these companies. Companies can see for themselves what they need most when they close this three-week period: whether they need to pay their electricity bill, pay their water bill, pay their rent, support for people. It is necessary to give the belief that they will manage, that these companies will move forward, operate further, continue their economic activities. And, of course, they also need their own employees, their own people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U64	Riina Sikkut, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U65	You started the answer by saying that Ida-Virumaa is important. Does this now indicate that the decisions taken on the measures apply only to Ida-Virumaa or that any other region of Estonia can be expected to receive similar compensation? In other words, is the government's promise to entrepreneurs that at least as generously as in Ida-Virumaa, everyone else will be compensated if it is necessary? So I'm not so interested in these decimals as in the principles on which the government makes decisions. My second question concerns codes of conduct for the public. Undoubtedly, Estonian people are able to cope with the virus. The question is whether they can cope with government support or whatever government action. Yesterday, when you gave an overview of the spread of the virus, you said very clearly that the most important thing is to reduce contacts, reduce contacts by one fifth. It's like this measure is going to take R0 down to one, and then we're going to have a decrease in the number of infected people. This is a very specific suggestion: any person may think that I will then really call four instead of five. But that fifth is the minimum. There are very many people who cannot reduce their contacts because of their work, then they are pharmacists or cashiers or health care professionals who care for patients. Since they can't cut their contacts by a fifth, everyone else has to work harder. So, in fact, this message of a fifth reduction gives people the wrong expectation that if they have done their fifth reduction, they have behaved as if, then this effort should suffice. And maybe that's enough to prevent a particular person from getting infected. But if we look at the Estonian population as a whole, this joint effort must be much greater. But somehow it's not like to say, people, do more than what the government recommends. What's your code for Christmas?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U66	I have just praised Lauri in the West Forest from your group, his maturity. I would also like to say to you that I think the concerns you have pointed out are also very correct. Yes, as Professor Irja Lutsar has said, this virus likes contacts. And we need to reduce these contacts every day. We promise ourselves fewer contacts today than yesterday, less contacts tomorrow than today! It has to be a guiding principle. If we are able to avoid or reduce contact with us, barely everyone can avoid it, but we can reduce it, then it is already a very big step in our personal behavioral design and model. Now, let's come to you. You had so many questions, Honourable Riina Sikkut. I'll take all these questions and answer everyone that you can't say that I haven't answered again. You ask what all the other regions are doing. This support, this 5 million across Estonia and 2.8 million in Ida-Virumaa, is linked to the restrictions of 10 December, which apply for three weeks. This is the support that the government really has allocated. It has been the handwriting of today's government that once we have made restrictions, we have also supported entrepreneurship. This was also the case in the spring when we took very big and fundamental steps, of course thanks to the help of the Riigikogu. In my opinion, the private sector and the entire business sector have said that this has been the very right direction. That's the right way to go! I have been assisted by the Council of Experts and they have, in any case, praised the steps taken by the government that we have taken. And in the future, we must always consider that, when we do this, whether it means support or it does not mean support. We must always consider how to help the people of Estonia, help our economy to recover faster. Now, you say you don't care about decimals. But I'm interested. The commas are sometimes very important in life, and in the grammar of Estonian the commas are also very important; the meaning of the sentence may depend on them. Let's move on: codes of conduct. Have they had government support or not? Well, I believe you, Riina, also say that the government has contributed in this sense to deal with this virus, to suppress it. I said yesterday here and I will say today too: the Prime Minister is responsible for whether or not we can handle the coronavir. But, of course, the government works with the best specialists: the Science Advisory Board, the Health Board, various ministries, the Police and Border Guard Board, local authorities, plus hospitals and the whole medical sector and the educational sector. So it's still a joint effort. These must be the common steps we take to resist this virus and move on with our lives. Let's go. You're asking for a suggestion for the next few days. The suggestion for the coming days is that we spend Christmas in the family. These Christmases are very narrow circles, these Christmases and this year's end is not the time for big parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U67	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U68	Thank you. Prime Minister! Yesterday, a colleague has already asked about this, but today you will be able to answer a little bit more about the question of a virus control tool called the Keep app. We finished it on August 20th. But today's situation is that we've only pulled it down 17% of people. At the same time, even in Germany, where fear in technology, data protection and other areas has generally slowed down the take-up of new technologies, this percentage is above 20%. 23 to 24% of people in Germany have installed it. In Finland, this percentage is around 50: 2.5 million downloads are on their Koronavicle app. But in addition to the statistics that only 17% have pulled down this app, one thing is even more worrying. For him to be useful, it doesn't just take us all dating this turned on corona app. Those people who are sick have to register there. Otherwise, it won't work. And we know that by doing so, only 1,400 people have registered to be sick throughout the entire period, which is now three days sick. In fact, only 400 active lesions or active patients have actually been registered through this, which is only 5 to 6% of today's active cases. As a result, could you use a certain timeline to describe how the government has tried to get the korona finger not only to be pulled down and used but also to be reported sick there? What is your assessment: why does this app not work as an effective measure in one of the most technologically friendly societies in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U69	Thank you. Of course, it could be used in greater use. But I don't think this Keep app is somehow a magic wand that would solve the spread of the virus. He is certainly one of many measures, or as the media likes to say today: you can take different tools from the toolbox. So I think that this is really one instrument among a very wide range of measures. The most important thing is what I answered to your benchmate, Mrs. Riina Sikkut. Contact avoidance is much more effective than this Keep app. But yes, I agree it could be used more diligently. I was just looking at your very popular Facebook website. You will be there to teach how to deal with the natural environment, and you will speak very much on the subject of the virus. Then help me promote it! Put your Facebook on that, people, use this app! I think we have to do everything we can to make more use of it, but we can't say it's a magic wand. Or another thing: it is believed that now that masks are mandatory, the matter has been resolved immediately. It's not solved! It is also one of the confidence measures that goes along with the fact that we have to disinfect hands, we have to reduce contacts, we always have to think about whether we are going to some events, whether we need to go to all events or not. With this, we can reduce our contacts again. If you are infected with coronavir, if we have this app, you must note that you are sick in the Keep app. Should users do more of this? The answer is, of course, you should do more. But we need to look at the whole picture of these trust measures or at the whole complex of different steps. This information has probably been given little in society, although it has also been strongly focused on government communication messages. I don't think it's a blue tooth problem that has to have a blue tooth inside. Some may think there's an app, but what about that blue tooth? Yeah, it's gotta be inside, otherwise that app won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U70	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U71	Next Question, Number 9. The performer is Andres Sutt and the answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U72	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! I will continue with the measure of supporting entrepreneurship in Ida-Virumaa, and there has been quite a lot of talk here today. The feedback we receive from local entrepreneurs is, for example, that we are also talking about contactless holiday homes where there are practically no employees, but they have also been deprived of the possibility of earning income. However, fixed costs still exist. Here's my question for you. We are now talking about this 2.1 million, and we are talking about a maximum grant of EUR 150000 per company. How will you ensure this if there will be more applicants than there will be money in this measure? How do you ensure that this decision is transparent and that everything is treated uniformly? And how many companies would this 2.1 million really help now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U73	Thank you, Mr. Sutt. If you take the floor, there will always be economics or finance. I certainly want to share with you this positive news here, in the Honourable Riigikogu Question Time, that Eesti Pank's announcements today about the economic situation and economic policy choices are positive. We must actually see the positive side of this difficult health and economic crisis, Mr Sutt. You have made a great deal of effort in your life, too, to make our economy do well. Looking at the real growth of the economy, in September, Eesti Pank believed that the recession would be 3.8%. We can see that this is 2.5%. Eesti Pank has also improved its economic forecast for real economic growth next year: it foresees higher growth. It is clear that the Estonian economy will recover from the crisis in 2021, says Eesti Pank. And he also says that in fact this fear, which was still a few months ago, has not been fulfilled, the Estonian economy has not gone so bad, and in fact Estonia has been one of the best in its economic model throughout the European Union. I'm sure you'll be happy about that. Now, what I would like to say once again about Ida-Viru County: this measure is a total of 2.8 million. This measure must also include recreational activities, recreational education, sport activities and, of course, businesses. They asked how many companies there are. This input comes from specialists at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications: about 200 companies are estimated. Is that enough money? Today, we believe that this amount is proportionate in that it helps to give these companies three weeks of faith that they can continue their activities. The whole point of this restriction is that by working together to reduce contacts in Ida-Viru County, we can take the infection curve down there. Let's hope it works. Let's hope it works! It is clear that a maximum ceiling must be fixed for this measure: which is the maximum per undertaking. Of course! Are these decisions transparent, as you ask? Does everyone have access to these grants? Answer: Yes, it is. Everyone has access, everyone can apply for certain criteria. In my opinion, it should be as flexible as possible for an entrepreneur to apply for this money, so that he can make the necessary costs quickly within the few weeks when this limitation is on. This is precisely with the aim of moving forward with our economic activities. And once again, it shows that the government does not leave East Viru County alone. On the contrary, we come to help, we give support. We give faith that together we can move forward and we can do it together.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U74	Andres Sutt, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U75	Thank you. With my question, I will give you the opportunity to clarify how you will behave in a situation where there will be more applicants than the money that has been allocated. Who will be deleted? Who can? But I want to ask you more. My introduction will now be much shorter, as you have already talked nicely about the economic forecast of Eesti Pank. Indeed, I am also very pleased that the economy has actually managed much better than we feared. And next year's a pretty good growth forecast if we look at the base forecast. There was another important message that you did not talk about. I will say this then: stopping the unlimited increase in the public debt will also require a significant change of direction in fiscal policy. Surely we can only agree with this, because if this change of direction does not come, we will inevitably face an increase in tax. My second question concerns these support measures, the decision you made in your office on 8 December, when you decided that the KredEx and Rural Promotion Foundation will continue with the crisis measures of tourism operators next year. As you hope to know, the National Audit Office has audited both the Rural Promotion Foundation and KredEx and has identified a number of shortcomings there. We have also dealt with these issues several times in the Special Committee on Corruption, precisely in the key to ensuring transparent and effective use of measures. I think it is appropriate that these shortcomings referred to by the National Audit Office can be remedied before these measures continue, as you would like to do. What changes and when are there plans to make under the terms of the COVID support measures mediated by KredEx and the Rural Promotion Foundation so that the problems raised by the National Audit Office are resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U76	Thank you very much for this question. For a moment you also mentioned Eesti Pank's information that really Eesti Pank is saying that this year the economy will shrink by 2.5%, which is considerably smaller than the one feared when the corona crisis broke out, and also one of the smallest in European countries. It is interesting here that your party once wanted Estonia to be among the five richest European countries. Well, you see, in that sense, we may be among those five, maybe three. A relatively smaller setback will also make it easier to exit the crisis. I think this is the right idea, which connects with the idea of Eesti Pank that the rapid recession of the economy in the third quarter of this year proved that the Estonian economy will be able to recover quickly once the restrictions have disappeared. However, I come back to the budgetary position that you asked about. I think that the government is very conservative in its approach to budgetary policy, and that is, in my view, the right direction. After all, we have also said that, when we come out of this crisis, we want to rebalance the budget as quickly as possible in order to improve our position from 2022. We're going that way. This is indeed what Eesti Pank says that the balance of the budget is important, and that is where we need to move. This has also been a very clear and concrete message from the government. I am pleased that Mr Aivar Sõerd has also come to the Chamber because you are both very much involved in financial matters. Let's go. You indicated that the government has said that the measures of KredEx, MES and EAS must be continued. Yes, we think they really need to be continued. This is particularly important in the interests of our economic recovery; it is also important in the interests of employment. In terms of employment, I would point out that the unemployment fund predicted in spring this year that there could be up to 110000 unemployed people at the end of the year. Today we see that the number of unemployed is high, it is certainly too big for Estonia, but it is 52000 and a little bit more. The end of the year is not yet at hand, but we are working together here to say a great deal of thanks to entrepreneurs, also the private sector, as well as to the unemployment fund, when it comes to the collection of reserves, we have managed to ensure that unemployment has not increased to what was feared. After all, Eesti Pank also highlights the weight of unemployment, which they estimate to be 7.3% this year. At the moment, it's higher, 8%, and next year it's gonna get a little higher, but then it might start to fall. Do we need to address the shortcomings that the National Audit Office has said? Of course it will. Of course! Mr. Sõerd, don't interrupt Mr. Sutti, I'm answering him now! Of course, these shortcomings need to be corrected, so we cannot go ahead with these things. Is the job on? It's working like a ship in the kitchen right now, I assure you. There was a meeting this morning, there's a meeting tomorrow, and that's how it's gonna go on. So until these measures have been improved by the National Audit Office's assessment, if these deficiencies have not been rectified, they cannot go on in concrete terms. But the job's on, so don't worry about it. However, that was the correct focus.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U77	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U78	Thank you. Prime Minister! Of course, there are more words than deeds. And it is strange, to be honest, to hear you thank entrepreneurs, especially the private sector, while the government puts its foot behind it if it wants companies to be treated equally in a crisis situation. Let's take the most recent news that Sakala has given us. The manufacturer of parcel terminals, Cleveron, who brought Estonia a great deal of international fame, has received a one-phrase response from KredEx on Monday. They wanted to apply for a state-of-the-art emergency loan from KredEx, but this measure no longer exists. They worked for months and spent thousands of euros to carry out a socio-economic analysis and to show how important their project could be, compared, for example, to Porto Franco's, for which you allocated EUR 40 million. And they got the answer that there was no such measure anymore. If you open KredEx's home page, the same measure will continue to be nicely up there. There's a little too much of this mess. Why don't you do something?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U79	Thank you, Mr Mihkelson. In particular, I found this last appeal to be very sympathetic: maybe you'll do something. We do it all the time! And I promise I'll move on today, I'll move on tomorrow, and I'll move on the day after tomorrow. Nothing's gonna happen to "maybe" in this crisis. Yes, there is a need for action here, and we have been working since spring both to alleviate the economic crisis and the health crisis. As I said before: I have personally asked a wide variety of companies in Estonia to advise us already in spring and to advise the entire government on how we have to proceed with the budget for next year with the budgetary strategy of the country next year. And the entrepreneurs have been rated, we have just met again for this activity. Now, the information you brought out of the Sakala newspaper, I'm not familiar with it. Well, I'm familiar with Cleveron. I've been visiting Cleveron in Viljandi, I know Cleveron's parcel machines. A few months ago, I had a very historic meeting with the French President, Emmanuel Macron, in Paris. In a large shopping centre in Paris, Cleveron's parcel terminal was opened, and I was honoured to do so, and so we were able to strengthen bilateral relations between France and Estonia. But to comment specifically on this news, I say that the point has always been that if there are such large projects, in any case this is a positive or a negative decision, i.e. a yes or a no decision, the government will have to discuss this issue. As you say, there is a measure on KredEx's website. So in any case, when I'm out of here, I'm gonna contact KredEx for that one-phrase answer up in Sakala, and we're gonna deal with it. This does not mean now that the decision will become positive, but in any case I want to understand it specifically myself. Because really, Cleveron's ideas and thoughts by spreading parcel terminals across Estonia are, in my opinion, very impressive and positive. This company is definitely a very big success story in Estonia and will also develop our exports. I only have 20 seconds left. I want all members of the Riigikogu, including the Chairman of the Riigikogu, to wish them a beautiful Christmas time, a beautiful Christmas day, so that they are lovely holidays, where we would keep each other. Of course, together with the Riigikogu and the government, we will do everything in our good partners to overcome the coronavirism. I'm sure we're gonna beat this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U80	Thank you. Also by Riigikogu, the government has a lot of success and strength and a beautiful Christmas time! That concludes our Question Time. I thank all the questioners, thank all the respondents. And now I'm going to turn on the hall call.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U81	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday of the 11th working week. First of all, we have the oath by Marko Storm, a member of the Riigikogu. Dear Riigikogu, in connection with the resignation of Riigikogu member Taavi Rõivas, Marko Storm, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, joined today and next we will listen to his oath of office.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U82	Good Riigikogu! Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U83	Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U84	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am re-introducing a draft law amending the Citizenship Act, which has already been introduced here on one occasion and has been withdrawn because of some of the technical errors contained in the Bill. In essence, this is the same suggestion: restoring birth citizenship for persons who were forced to give up the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia between 23 August 1939 when the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact was signed, until 16 June 1940. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U85	Thank you. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U86	On behalf of nine members of the Estonian Central Party, Estonian Conservative People's Party and Social Democratic Party faction, who together form the trade union support group, I present the draft law amending the Income Tax Act. This exempts non-profit organisations from certain double taxation in respect of allowances paid to self-employed members from their membership fees. In essence, this means that once members have paid their income tax, collected the same money and distributed it among the same people, then more, the second time they no longer have to pay their income tax. Presently, Estonian laws do not tax gifts received from a natural person. There is no reason why collective gifts should be taxed; that is essentially double taxation. Let's propose we lose it. At present, such benefits are primarily paid by trade unions, helping members, for example, in case of loss of working capacity, long-term illness, unemployment or other problems of this kind. Workers know that when unexpected distress strikes them, companions always come to help. Secondly, this draft will also facilitate the activities of businesses, namely those who wish to contribute to health at work or to the health of workers. We cut red tape, reduce the overall administrative burden. I hope that this draft will also serve as an example for all other non-profit organisations to develop solidarity between members and help each other in trouble, and I hope that businesses will also contribute more to the health of workers. I also hope that you will all support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U87	Thank you. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U88	Ladies and gentlemen, I, and now 18 delegates from five political groups, and even one of the political groups, will initiate the Pet Register Act, which will create a common pet register in Estonia. There's a hundred of them now. If we adopt this law, we will save taxpayers' money, we will burden municipalities less and we will certainly be able to find our own dog-cat or why not a hamster much faster. So please support this law! Thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U89	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board, I have adopted three drafts and the Management Board processes them in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U90	90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 11. Let's go to today's agenda. Indrek Saar, please, a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U91	Yeah. I ask the Bureau to explain to us what the actual situation is in this Chamber of the Riigikogu and why the Bureau has decided to conduct a physical hearing. Yesterday we read in the papers that there are a large number of possible close contacts in the Riigikogu due to the Monday joint session of the Committee on Culture and Economic Affairs. This implies that a large number of members of the Riigikogu should remain self-insulated. The logical result of this would be that we use the arrangements for remote sittings developed, because, contrary to the unforeseen nature of several governments, Parliament, after some discussions and debates, was able to draw its own conclusions after the first wave of the health crisis and to develop a procedure for such cases that we have completely in place. Why are we physically here today, however, and why are we not using this procedure in the current critical health situation, given that the Riigikogu should set an example for society in such matters and reduce the possibility of new viral outbreaks?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U92	Thank you. I will try to explain briefly. This morning, the Board of the Riigikogu met and discussed the situation. The board also discussed the information we had received from the Health Board by 11:00 today. This is the most relevant information. Due to the joint session of the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Health Board has read two people, two members of the Riigikogu, for close contact. No positive findings have been identified. The remaining members of the Riigikogu who participated in this meeting, as well as all officials who participated in this meeting, may continue their work in accordance with the decision of the Health Board. None of them are considered close contact. The two members of the Riigikogu who are in close contact are Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits and Marko Šorin. They can't take part in the hearing. The Board of the Riigikogu decided by consensus that we will continue on the last two days that we still have, in the normal course of work and regular sessions. Let's see how this disease goes on and whether or not in January, when the sessions start again on Monday 2nd, as it has traditionally been, there is a need to switch to teleworking or not. This was the unanimous decision of the board today, taking into account the latest information within the Riigikogu as well as the regulations of the Health Board. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U93	I will read this procedure for conducting a remote sitting, which has been approved by the Board of the Riigikogu. It says when the remote hearing will be held. There is a weighty reason if at least one political group cannot come to the Riigikogu due to an objectively expressed obstacle. We know the Health Board's recommendations to reduce exposure by at least 20% to bring down the virus curve. At the same time, we're all sitting here together every day, and there's no reducing the contact. Can we at least change the procedure so that we can take into account the recommendations of the Health Board and organise remote sessions in order to reduce the risk of infection? And can we vote here today so that we can have a remote hearing so that we can go to teleworking and not take risks?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U94	Thank you. If we look at the longer term, the law on home and working procedures must probably be supplemented so that the Riigikogu can work more flexibly. Another way to carry out the voting procedure is to amend the Home and Working Procedures Act. With regard to more flexible working arrangements, such as the fact that we are working in a standard form, but we allow some members to participate in teleworking in the form of teleworking, the so-called hybrid work form does not provide for such a law on home and working procedures, and we do not have this possibility. We can either use a teleworking format or a standard format. The teleworking format, I draw attention to, allows members of the Riigikogu to be present in the Riigikogu Hall, but it requires certain decisions from the management board and other organisational activities for the work of the Riigikogu as a whole. These are today's opportunities on which the board can build. We don't have any other additional options. But I think the Riigikogu has set a pretty good example. After all, most committee meetings take the form of teleworking. We have also limited the number of guests coming to the Riigikogu house to the minimum. These recommendations have been made. I know that most of the group's working arrangements are that most members of the group attend meetings in the form of teleworking. It is also recommended to cancel all other, unnecessary meetings. Tours will no longer take place in the Riigikogu, they will not be registered. So, in fact, measures have been taken. And the fact that we are still working in the normal form here for two days is, in my opinion and in the opinion of the board, quite normal, because the vast majority of Estonian working groups work in this way. These derogations, which have been granted to Ida-Virumaa and specifically to schools, have been granted to [only] them. All the rest of the employers are following the health requirements that have been established: the COVID-positive should be left out immediately, all close contacts should be left out. Members of the Riigikogu as well as officials of the Chancellery have complied with all these instructions and recommendations and hopefully will continue to comply with them. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U95	Good manager! I have this problem. We all have Santa coming tomorrow. Have you discussed in the board how Santa would be affected by the performance and the receipt of a gift in the form of teleworking? Have you thought about that? Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're worried that they're gonna get flunked, and it's hard to give at a long-distance hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U96	I don't know exactly if Santa's coming or not. This depends on how we have worked this year. We don't know yet. We'll see if he comes tomorrow or not. However, I do have one such announcement that the Board of the Riigikogu has discussed our usual meeting at the end of the year, which has traditionally been organised, and it has been decided that this festive part will be cancelled. There will be no such joint end-of-year party in the Riigikogu. There will only be a concert following all the rules for those who want to. It's totally voluntary. But this festive ending of the year will be canceled in the Riigikogu this year. Oudekki Loone, please, a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U97	Yeah, it's a procedural question. Have any of these people today who are self-insulated ever asked to attend today's or tomorrow's session? And if so, what measures have we taken so that the Member can fulfil the mandate given by his people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U98	I have not received any such requests, and neither has the Riigikogu Board, when [this topic] was discussed, there had been no urgent requests by that time. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U99	That is not true because, at least personally, I have signed the request of the Reform Party Group to hold a remote session today. This morning, I signed it on behalf of the ambassadors in our group. So that's the kind of statement that the board has to have.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U100	I'll explain now. Oudekki Loone's question was quite different. Oudekki Loone asked if any of the three delegates, who are now in close contact and unable to attend the hearing, had expressed their wish. And I replied that none of these three ambassadors had expressed a wish. It hasn't gotten to me. It is true that the Reform Party has proposed to switch to teleworking, and this proposal was discussed in the Bureau. That is what we discussed and reached the conclusion that we would normally conduct the sitting. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U101	I am simply explaining that, since one of these people is a member of our group, he has expressed his wish to us and we have submitted a request on behalf of the group to the management board of the Riigikogu. I think this should be the way it should be, because when we read the procedure for holding long-term sittings, we see that it says that the group will turn to the Bureau with the wish of a long-term sitting. These wishes are presented.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U102	Three close contacts are currently known to the Management Board on the basis of the decision of the Health Board. These are Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, who are not part of the Reform Party Group, Marko Šorin, who is not part of the Reform Party Group, and Mr Korb, who is also not part of the Reform Party Group. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U103	Thank you! I ask for two points to be clarified in connection with this same debate. Point one: Quite a lot has been speculated in the public that the unwillingness to hold a remote session is due to the opinion of some people that the use of e-services and the digital state are not reliable until the end. Can you confirm it or disprove it? My second question relates to what happens when one of our colleagues is in close contact, but he feels that this is an extremely important vote, an extremely important discussion in which he must definitely take part. According to law, a member of the Riigikogu cannot be prevented from exercising his mandate. At the same time, it is, of course, not advisable for a person in close contact to contact other people. What happens if a member of the Riigikogu in close contact wishes to exercise his mandate and comes to the hall for this? Will he be removed from the Chamber, or will he still be allowed to take part in the vote or debate? In this case, what is the attitude and behaviour of the Riigikogu Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U104	Thank you. First of all, about the e-state. While doubting the e-state has not been the reason for these decisions, at least no member of the board has expressed it. As regards close contacts who cannot participate in the work of the Riigikogu, this topic is currently not regulated in Estonian law. It's not fully regulated. This is the same situation when a person is ill or misses an airplane when, for example, returning from an external mission. If he can't attend the hearing, he can't participate, he just can't. It is not specifically regulated. In these cases too, it is actually possible for a person to participate in teleworking. This is where we will have to supplement the Home and Working Procedures Act in the future. But I want to say one more thing to the members of the Riigikogu as an explanation. I see there are a lot of procedural questions. Today, we cannot transform the current sitting into a teleworking session, which is not allowed by the Home and Working Procedures Act. The ordinary form of the sitting has already begun and, according to the law, it must continue until the agenda is exhausted. Here's the chance that we interrupt and go halfway to teleworking, we don't. Today we are here and we have to work beautifully here until the end of the agenda. So I have a request for those who would like to ask procedural questions about this: take yourself out of line. But if there are any new aspects, please. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U105	Thank you. Data on the illness and non-morbidity of a person are sensitive personal data which should not be stated in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. I don't think the Health Board is going to inform you, or need to inform you, of all the people in the collective who are in the immediate vicinity. That is why it is reasonable that the political groups or the management of the group make a request for a remote hearing. In my opinion, people's sensitive personal data about illness or close contact should not be published.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U106	These people have been known by name to the board of the Riigikogu. So... [[Kaja Kallas will explain.]] Well, maybe not everyone knows, I'll tell you as much as we know. But then you could let us know the number of fractions, but we haven't been informed in numbers either. I think it would be correct if the Reform Party knew that they had close contacts, they would inform [we] that they have close contacts. However, if the Reform Party is hiding it, the board will not be able to make an adequate decision. If the political party does not know that they have close contacts, and this... (Echo Kallas continues to explain.) You haven't reported that. I have the Declaration of the Reform Party here: "The Reform Party Group proposes to implement the proceedings of the Riigikogu with remote participation from 16 December 2020 because, for objective reasons, members of the Riigikogu cannot participate in the physical session of the Riigikogu. " Such a general statement does not make it clear that there are no specific individuals. We don't need to know the names of these people, but some objective reasons may be very different. So I have a request: if the factions have persons [who cannot participate in the work of the Riigikogu] specifically due to the crisis and virus of the COVID, then let the members of the Riigikogu know that you have a [virus related] problem. You don't have to publish these names, but let me know about [this problem] and we can count on it. Otherwise, it may be because a person feels that he just doesn't want to come here or for some other reason. What is the objective reason? (Echo Kallas comments on the matter) We didn't ask for an objective reason. We were also present at the Bureau meeting as Vice-Chairman of the representative of the Reform Party, so we also had information directly from the Reform Party Group through a person. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U107	Yeah, I got three things. First of all, I would point out that the comparison you have made is not appropriate. These objective circumstances, which you have pointed out that members of the Riigikogu get sick or miss a bus, are not comparable to the fact that a person is actually able to come here or wants to come here, but cannot simply come because he is a threat to others. There's a big difference. That's one. Secondly, some of the information on who will or will not be able to attend the session was only revealed this morning. I think you had a board meeting by then, I don't know. Thirdly, indeed, we have one person in the group who cannot come here for the very reason that he may be a threat to other people. And here I would like to ask you that we have one item on the agenda today that has been introduced by the Reform Party and on which the Commission has proposed to vote it out. So here comes the kind of opposite vote, where every vote is important. How do you think we can balance this situation if we don't have a remote hearing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U108	Thank you. I repeat, if there are such members in the political groups, give the Bureau adequate information. Today's board didn't have that kind of information. So this is our request for the future so that the board can decide [in such circumstances]. As regards the participation or non-participation of these people, I said that the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately, do not provide any further opportunities. In order to organise the work of the Riigikogu more flexibly in the future, the Home and Working Procedures Act should be amended. In my opinion, [the solution] is, for example, the possibility that individual members are granted an exception and are given the opportunity to participate in the work of the Riigikogu in the form of teleworking, not that the entire Riigikogu hall should be transferred to teleworking. But this is not an opportunity under our Home and Working Procedures Act today. But this is a place of debate and we do not have the point of philosophing now about all the technical and other possibilities that the law currently does not allow. Once again, we can no longer change the format of today's sitting. Today's trial has begun. We cannot end it in this form and transform it into a remote session. And I have no problem putting the Reform Party's proposal to vote outside the so-called Home and Working Procedures Act so that the big hall can vote on it if that is what it wants. We can also do this as a big vote in the Chamber. Although, as I said, the Bureau is consensually determined to organise work in the ordinary format. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U109	Thank you, Mr President. This is undoubtedly a very multifaceted issue, which may have an impact, and is likely to have an impact on our next session as well. These concerns are sincere. I think that this situation is not comparable to that of someone missing a plane because it is a question of protecting the principle of a free mandate, on the one hand, and of complying with the rules of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, on the other. These are, in fact, two norms that conflict with each other in this situation, and the principle of a free mandate is certainly more important, so there is really nothing to prevent parliamentarians from coming here to exercise their free mandate. As a result, I have a question to the Riigikogu board: how is the life and health of other people ensured? However, in order to find a solution to the situation, perhaps it would be reasonable to make a constructive proposal, if you promise to convene a body of elders and discuss the activities of the board of directors in this context before we start discussing the amendments to the law. I think it would be possible to avoid a very large number of communication disruptions here by agreeing on codes of conduct, through which contact data travel, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U110	Thank you. I will pass this information on to the President of the Riigikogu This is a very sensible proposal, because we now feel through practical experience what the real needs are to amend the law on home and working arrangements so that we can respond flexibly to the reality. So surely before we begin to amend and supplement the law on home and work arrangements, the body of elders will come together and discuss the problem. Do we have to go ahead with procedural questions, or do we put the Reform Party's proposal to the vote, or are we going straight to today's agenda? Well, Raimond Kaljulaid still has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U111	I'm so sorry! I'm spending as little time as I can. I'm joining Evgeny Ossinovsky's appeal. I, too, think that the body of elders should discuss this matter quite quickly, because the contradiction is really obvious: the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu says that a member of the Riigikogu must not be prevented in any way in his work, and at the same time we have a situation where some people have been told that you must avoid all kinds of contact. There's going to be a contradiction here. I think it is important, from the point of view of protecting the rights of all 101 members of the Riigikogu and, in fact, ensuring parliamentaryism, that, if such a contradiction arises, there should be a very clear plan of action on how to solve this problem. I, too, call on the body of elders to deal with this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U112	Well, now we're starting to dissect the law more widely here. In fact, today's law also provides for the possibility that close contacts can come to work if they perform public tasks. There's an opportunity, but it's a point of discretion. Of course this is not recommended. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U113	Thank you, good manager. New circumstances have emerged in this hall today. This morning it was known that there were close contacts in one group, but it turns out in this Chamber that there are already more than one group. Do you not think that this situation could lead to a constitutional crisis? We have a situation where you make the Riigikogu vote essentially to take away their free mandate from one or more members of the Riigikogu. The law of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure is based on logic; in objective circumstances, it is designed for example for situations where a person gets caught in an elevator, gets sick, etc. It's Force Majeurs. In this case, the government has introduced a regulation that prevents a person from coming when he or she is in close contact. He may even be healthy, no symptoms, but he can't participate. This is an emergency, we cannot easily solve it in the Riigikogu and cross someone. None of the political groups, any person holding a mandate, can cross the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U114	Thank you. It seems to me that we are repeating the same question. I've already answered that many times. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U115	Thank you! First of all, I have a question on the basis of which we should take these decisions. I simply recall that before every mistrust, the Reform Party has claimed that they already have all the votes together to pass this mistrust. And the other is that I do not understand this problem with a free mandate. What if one of the ambassadors is in the bathroom during the vote on some sensitive questions? Will the rest of the hall wait until he can come back to carry out his free mandate?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U116	Thank you. It was such a complicated question that I couldn't answer it. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U117	Thank you. Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, I have this question. On Friday, the Social Democratic Party Group sent you a letter informing you that there may be a person in our group who carries the virus, and the whole faction is therefore isolated. What measures did you take on Friday to conduct the Monday session electronically? You're lucky the test wasn't positive, it was negative. But you didn't answer anything to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U118	We took note of this information and exchanged it because it was an information letter that might happen. There was no specific proposal that we should switch to teleworking or anything like that. But we had the information that this could happen, and we took it into account. We were eager to see what the result was, and the result was negative. Kaido Höökelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as I know, the free microphone is on Mondays after the agenda is exhausted, and Question Time is on Wednesdays at 12:00-14. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U120	Yeah, you got it right. And I am sincerely surprised that in such a short time, in the course of a relatively short practice, you have mastered the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu very well. Thank you. There are no more procedural questions, and we can go to today's agenda. Yes, Kaja Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U121	I'm sorry! When you answered the previous or previous question, you said that there were three options. One of them was to vote on the proposal of the Reform Party. If you say that a remote session cannot be held today anyway, will we vote on the holding of a remote session in tomorrow's sitting, or what was the overall proposal? You gave me three alternatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U122	No, I'm not giving you any alternatives. These are still proposals that you have put forward. Here is the proposal of the Reform Party and Siim Kallas, as I understand from the Home and Working Procedures Act, can be put to the vote as a member of the Bureau. This is because the Bureau has decided by consensus that the meetings will take place normally, but later Siim Kallas has announced that he will nevertheless withdraw his consent. This is not provided for by the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, but in fact this has happened. And since this is indeed the case, we can interpret it in such a way that there is no consensus on the Board of the Riigikogu, and this board member [who has not agreed] has the right to put his proposal to the vote. So, if Mr Kallas calls for the vote on this proposal, we could vote on it, but I say it will happen with concessions, because the law on home and working procedures does not provide for such a vote. But if we meet the wishes here, if Siim Kallas proposes, we can take this vote in the big Chamber. Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U123	I will explain so much that, when we discussed this issue this morning, the Bureau did indeed decide to do so. It was then known that there were some people who were in close contact. It is not an obligation to cancel anything directly, and that is why I agreed to it. However, since the majority of people in the group thought that teleworking would still be good, that we would not differ in any way from the rest of society, from businesses or from other groups, and that there would be no impression that the Health Board would apply any special treatment to us, I really proposed that this issue be resolved by voting. And indeed, I am now proposing to vote on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U124	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U125	Good manager! I look forward to this draft hate speech today. But my concern continues to be what you didn't answer before: tomorrow Santa Claus will be here how can Santa come for a long-distance hearing? Are respected sociers and reform parties afraid that they're going to get caught up and hope to get away with it at a long-distance hearing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U126	First of all, let us wait for the decision of the large Chamber when I put this proposal to the vote. Maybe there won't be a long-distance hearing. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U127	Thank you, Mr President. What was your statement that the floor was withdrawn? This is a very interesting situation; very rarely does it happen that the word is withdrawn. What does that mean, basically? Did they give the floor at first, and then they gave it up? What was that all about? It was new information, I think, for this hall as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U128	This meant that the meeting had made a consensual decision. We were no longer able to reconvene after Siim Kallas had sent a message, because the Question Hour of the Riigikogu had begun and the President of the Riigikogu conducted an information session here. It was no longer possible for us to reconvene the guidance. And at two o'clock, according to the law, the session of the Riigikogu began, which I chair. So it was not physically such a moment that the Bureau could reconvene and start discussing the proposal. That's the situation. On a non-discriminatory basis, the situation is that the Bureau has made a consensual decision and we have nothing to vote on in this Chamber if we follow exactly the rules of our home and work. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U129	Thank you. To be honest, I do not quite understand what this vote is supposed to do at this point, apart from simply voting through a legitimate proposal from one of the political groups. My appeal was that perhaps this problem could be resolved somehow by finding a common understanding of how to act in the future through the body of elders. But now, as I understand it, since this vote has also been requested on your proposal, what does this vote mean? What are we voting on? Since it has no effect on today's sitting, what is the significance of this vote for both yes and no? Lately, we often discuss what 'yes' means and what 'no' means.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U130	One does not rule out the other. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! One does not rule out the other. If we vote today, this will in no way prevent the assembly of elders from gathering and discussing what and how to proceed. In my opinion, this should, in any case, happen at one point, regardless of the outcome of today's vote. And another thing: if I put this proposal to the vote, yes, it will no longer be possible to realise it on 16 December, i.e. today, because the sitting has already begun. It is theoretically possible to do so from tomorrow, not sooner, if the board reconvenes and makes such a decision. Then it's possible. So this is the point of the vote. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Do I understand correctly that this is a procedural question, that if you vote on a proposal from the Reform Party Group, it does not comply with the Home and Working Procedures Act and those who take part in this vote violate the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U132	I wouldn't interpret it so clearly. The Home and Rules of Procedure Act does not regulate exactly the situation that we currently have, so we have to act on the best recognition in this Chamber. That is why I am putting this proposal to the vote. The Home and Rules of Procedure Act does not regulate a situation in which the Bureau's decisions are taken in a consensual manner, but later a member of the Bureau decides to change his or her position, but the Bureau is unable to physically meet before the beginning of the meeting so that a new decision can be taken and the situation discussed. It is not regulated by the Rules of Procedure, and therefore, if there is a wish, I think it is best to have the large Chamber decide and give an opinion. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I appreciate your willingness to allow the great hall to make this decision. But here's what I'm asking you: what happens when the big hall decides that we're not dealing with the bill, not with three readings, but with four readings? I don't think such a situation could be normal. So if the Home and Working Procedures Act provides for such a procedure that we will not be able to vote on this issue again today, then we should be guided by it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U134	The law does not provide that there is no vote. The manager will decide what can and cannot, of course, within the limits of the law. If there is some room for interpretation, the chairman of the meeting has freedom of interpretation, and that is what I am using right now. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U135	Thank you. I propose one more thing to avoid a vote whose legal impact is incomprehensible and the result of which is likely to move along the coalition-opposition line and not to solve anything, but simply to allow for progress to be made with the sitting, which is undoubtedly necessary. The Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides for a break for the President. Why don't you take this opportunity and try to clarify these matters? If there are indeed some close contacts in the Reform Party Group who want to exercise their free mandate, then perhaps it is possible to reach an agreement that the Bureau will meet again this evening and decide again on tomorrow's sitting. That would be without a vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U136	Thank you. To this end, we do not need to take a break to make sure that the Bureau meets after the sitting. If the Bureau deems it necessary to meet after the meeting, it shall meet after the meeting. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Whether with or without a vote, we'll go to the agenda. We've been messing with this for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U138	That's a very constructive suggestion! Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U139	I would now, however, explain to the current chair what Mr Ossinovski said earlier, trying to find a compromise that would lead us to understand how we should behave in this somewhat distinctive situation that has struck us. Mr Ossinovski's proposal was that if the Bureau were to meet, negotiate with the political groups and make its proposal, we might not have to vote today and we would have more clarity about how we will behave tomorrow and how we will behave in similar cases in the future. This was a sincere desire to find a broader compromise, and that is why this proposal was made.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U140	It would be very unreasonable to take the chairman's break now and hold a Bureau meeting. At the same time, all the members who are here are waiting for them to leave without knowing what the board is discussing. It makes more sense to finish today's agenda, because it is not up to the Bureau to decide whether to cancel today's sitting or to turn it into a teleworking session. We can't decide that anyway. It makes more sense to spend as little time together as possible in the Chamber and to close the hearing. After that, the Governing Board may meet if it deems it necessary. So this proposal to take a break is, in my opinion, not very sensible. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U141	Good manager! It's been three-quarters of an hour. I'm asking you, what's all this for and how long?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U142	Thank you. Well, you yourself have contributed to this on a number of issues. I'd really like to get on the agenda. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U143	Ladies and gentlemen, What we are trying to make clear to you is that the Board of the Riigikogu should ensure an elementary discussion, not only with the coalition, but also with the opposition, so that the work of the Riigikogu can be organised as constructively as possible. The Council of Elders could have discussed this matter several times in recent days, at least since last Friday. But there has been no initiative. How can we be sure that the desire to negotiate with the opposition groups now follows what happens next?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U144	No, the management board of the Riigikogu has always considered the entire activities of the Riigikogu, including opposition parties. I would point out that there is also a representative of the opposition on the Board of the Riigikogu. We do not only have representatives of the coalition; we also have a representative of the opposition. As the Reform Party has proposed, and I have promised here that I will put it to the vote, even though it is now such an interpretative situation, under the Home and Working Procedures Act, I would ask you to listen carefully to what the content of the proposal is and then, with full knowledge of the principle of a free mandate, to vote. The proposal is as follows: The Reform Party Group proposes to apply the format of remote sittings of the Riigikogu from 16 December 2020. Since we cannot implement it on 16 December, with the permission of Mr Kallas, I will replace the 16th date with the 17th date starting tomorrow, as this is theoretically possible. That is what we are voting on. Who is in favour, who votes against, who is against, who is against, who is unable to take a position, who is abstaining or who is not taking part in the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Reform Party Group to apply the format of remote sittings from 17 December 2020. Andrei Korobeinik, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U145	Just a call, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U146	Thank you. My bad. I just assumed that procedural issues were so exciting that no member of the Riigikogu would leave the hall. Valdo Randpere, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U147	Yes, it is. As the table still stands 'Implementing the sitting', I want to know whether it really is true what you said that we can no longer vote on today. The sitting has not yet been implemented; we should also be able to take this decision on today's sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U148	We're going back to the procedural questions. I'll tell you later on, yes, it's like we can't rethink anything about today. Indeed it is. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also read out this paragraph; it is not very difficult: 'The sitting of the Riigikogu will be opened and declared closed by the President of the sitting. The sitting shall not be closed before the end of an action pending (report, statement, question or answer, vote on an amendment, final vote or other act). " So we do not have the opportunity to close the sitting here in any way, to transform it into a remote session or to implement any other format. Let's go to the voting procedure now. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Reform Party Group to apply the format of the sittings of the Riigikogu with remote participation from 17 December 2020. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U149	42 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 40 were against. The proposal was supported. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U150	Excuse me, Mr President. I have a procedural question. What did we just vote on? What's a remote hearing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U151	Ladies and gentlemen, [[It's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, attention!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U152	I want to protest because it is not absolutely clear what we have voted on. What's a remote hearing? Is it that the whole hall is empty and everyone is sitting at home, or that those who want to come to the hall and the part is at home? It's completely unclear. In my opinion, the present vote was not legitimate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U153	Thank you. I'll explain. Everything was entirely legitimate from the point of view you now presented. It is regulated by the Home and Working Procedures Act. A remote session means that all members of the Riigikogu who wish to come to this hall and participate in the hearing, and those who do not wish or cannot come, work in the form of teleworking where they are at the moment. There's a chance. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U154	I have a procedural question in this regard that if tomorrow an ambassador wants home... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U155	Ladies and gentlemen, attention! Let's hear it!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U156	I have this procedural question: if a representative of a group wants to make a speech tomorrow, but he is not in the Chamber, will we be guaranteed a video broadcast here where we will see this ambassador speak? Can he prepare his speech today and visualize it in order to have more influence on the people, but thereby place those ambassadors who appear on the remote and cannot use video background music, background music, cheerleaders, whatever?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U157	I don't know how to answer you now. What was the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U158	Is and how will it be possible for the representatives of the political groups to give a speech in the course of third readings tomorrow if they are away from the grand hall of the Riigikogu in the form of teleworking? And if they use other background forces to illustrate their speech, doesn't that seem to be unequal treatment for those pagan ambassadors who cannot use the background forces here on the remote to convey the message to voters in a more acceptable way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U159	Well, I don't know what kind of background you mean. A member of the Riigikogu can speak himself or on behalf of a political group in the normal way; they can and cannot use any background forces. [[Tarmo Kruusimäe explains the floor.]] I can't. I can't. You can be calm about it. We have equal treatment. Okay, but let's move on to today's agenda. There are no further procedural questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U160	Today's first item has come from yesterday's agenda, and this is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on natural gas initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Sven Sester, Chairman of the Economic Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U161	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Second reading of bill 256 amending the Natural Gas Act. This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 12 October. The first reading of the draft act took place on 11 November. No amendments were received from Riigikogu members, committees or political groups by the deadline for submitting amendments, 25 November. We also sent a separate notification to the NGO of the Estonian Gaasing Association, where different companies dealing with gas are concentrated. No opinions or proposals were received from them. These proposals were submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications as the initiator of the draft, and can be seen from the draft map. The Committee on Economic Affairs prepared the draft for a second reading at its meeting on 7 December. There was also a representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Commission accepted what was stated in the opinion received from the initiator of the draft, and in the course of the work we also made drafting proposals ourselves. There are five amendments in total, all under the name of the Committee on Economic Affairs. The draft also went through translation between two readings, technical and linguistic changes have been made which do not change the content of the draft. All these amendments are included in the list of amendments and all the proposals were supported by the Commission in a consensual manner. The Commission also proposed a draft referral and these proposals were as follows at the time: to put the draft on the agenda for second reading by 14 December and to close the second reading and to hold a final vote on 16 December. These decisions were consensual. Today, they have changed a little, both because of the management of the Riigikogu and the work we did in this Chamber yesterday. In conclusion, today is the second reading and tomorrow is the third reading. I would stress that all the decisions were consensual and did not differ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U162	Thank you. You have questions too. Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U163	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! Here's the question. In your speech, you mentioned involvement and asking for an opinion from the Gas Union. There's been no feedback. Does this mean that they agree with everything, or that the question just didn't get there? What do you think of the chairman of the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U164	Thank you for your question. I think the question must have come to light. Why wouldn't he have made it? However, no opinions or proposals were received from them, which means that the transposition of the directive meets the expectations and knowledge that we have today. Still got it. Of course! I think I'm sure I made it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U165	Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U166	Thank you. The second question is this: will there be costs to implement this law? What about them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U167	Thank you. We actually went through the first discussion of the draft law, its main points, to understand the effects it would have. There is a separate [document] to this effect. After you get.. because we also have a third reading coming up for sure to take another draft and take a look at it. But the effects of the bill are specifically mentioned, the effects that it may have. There are obligations to conduct cross-border disputes, but there are also regulations for concluding a transfer agreement with third countries. If you ask for a 'budgetary impact', according to me, this bill has no budgetary impact. And, of course, this bill is certainly important, and it is in compliance with European Union law; otherwise it would not be possible for us to have it here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U168	Thank you, no more questions for you! Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Five amendments to the draft have been tabled. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment is also from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The four amendments are from the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the position of the commission is to take this fully into account. The fifth amendment is also from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 256. The second reading has been completed and the first item has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U169	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Forensic Law (the Regulation on Mutual Recognition of Arrests and Confiscations and the European Public Prosecutor's Office Regulation) 261. I ask Mr Vilja Toomas, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft Act amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic (Implementation of the Regulation on Mutual Recognition of Arrest and Confiscation Decisions) 261 was passed in the Chamber of First Reading on 11 November. Let me remind you very briefly what this draft concerns. This draft complements the Code of Criminal Procedure to ensure cooperation between the Member States of the European Union in the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders. [In the case of this Regulation], this is a directly applicable European Union legislation, which is why it is not necessary to transpose it into Estonian law. This regulation replaces earlier European Union Framework Decisions, which have already been transposed into Estonian law, in particular, they are laid down in § 5089.5083 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In addition, the provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure on the powers of the prosecutor's office in criminal proceedings is complemented in order to enable the implementation of the so-called EPPO Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The EPPO Regulation provides for the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office. It is an independent, independent body of the European Union based in Luxembourg. The EPPO regulation is also directly applicable and therefore does not need to be transposed into Estonian law, but some technical specifications need to be made in the Code of Criminal Procedure. For the second reading, the Committee on Legal Affairs prepared this draft on 8 December and found that no member of the Riigikogu or political group had tabled amendments by the deadline for amendments, i.e. 25 November. No amendments were tabled by any other institution to which the draft had been submitted for an opinion. However, the initiator, the Ministry of Justice, tabled seven amendments which were discussed by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The first amendment concerns the title of the draft. An amendment will be made to the title of the draft "Law amending the Criminal Procedure Code and the Forensic Law (the Regulation on Mutual Recognition of Arrests and Confiscations and the European Public Prosecutor's Office Regulation) '. The following four amendments, i.e. two to five. the amendment concerns the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the European Public Prosecutor's Office. These amendments specify the role of the European Public Prosecutor and the European Prosecutor in criminal proceedings in Estonia. In carrying out its tasks, the European Public Prosecutor and the European Public Prosecutor shall have the same rights as the Public Prosecutor's Office pursuant to the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Code of Criminal Procedure also complements those provisions which give the State Attorney General certain procedural powers. The sixth amendment is partly technical, which concerns the entry into force of the draft. Originally, it was foreseen that the draft would enter into force, including on 19 December, but looking at the processing of this draft and hopefully tomorrow's adoption, one paragraph would be deleted from the draft so that the draft would enter into force in the normal manner. The last amendment concerns the amendment of the Forensic Law. The representatives of the Ministry of Justice informed us that the new full text of the Forensic Law is being prepared in the Ministry of Justice, but in view of the current situation in which the Director of the Forensic Institute has resigned and we need to elect a new director for the Institute, the Ministry of Justice proposed that we include a new procedure for the election to this draft so that we can choose the Director according to a new procedure. This means that we have proposed that the Director of the Forensic Institute be assigned to the Ministry of Justice and that the Director of the Institute be elected for a term of five years, which can be extended once by five years. These were the amendments that the Commission decided to initiate. This was done by consensus and all seven amendments were supported. Next, it was decided to bring the bill to the hall on 15 December, but as you know, it was postponed to today. And the third decision was that, when the second reading is completed today, it is proposed that the third reading be held on Thursday, 17 December. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U171	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Seven amendments to the draft were tabled and we will review them. The first amendment is tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment is also from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth has also been proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. There are six proposals from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take this fully into account. The seventh amendment is also from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 261. The second reading is finished.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U172	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure (combating hate crimes) initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party 276. I ask Kaja Kallas, a member of the Riigikogu, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U173	Ladies and gentlemen, According to § 12 of the Constitution: "Everything is equal before the law. No one shall be discriminated against on grounds of nationality, race, colour, gender, language, origin, religion, political or other beliefs, property and social status or other circumstances. Instigation of national, racial, religious or political hatred, violence and discrimination is prohibited and punishable by law. It is also prohibited and punishable by law to incite hatred, violence and discrimination between strata of society." Racism and xenophobia directly violate the principles of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. If we look at this section of the Constitution that I referred to, there is, in fact, § 151 in the Penal Code, which speaks of incitement to hatred, but it only has consequences if there is a specific threat to the life, health or property of one person. The draft reform party specifies § 151 of the Penal Code. First of all, our draft provides, as an aggravating circumstance, that the offence has been committed out of anger against citizenship, nationality, race, physical characteristics, health status, disability, age, gender, language, origin, ethnicity, religion, belief, sexual orientation, gender identity or property or social status. It is the same list that is still in the Penal Code, but the point is simply that when a crime is committed with these motives, it is an aggravating circumstance. Secondly, our draft states that § 151 applies not only when there is a specific threat to a person's life, health or property, but also when there is a threat to public order. The second amendment is as follows: At present, § 152 of the Penal Code deals with the violation of equality and § 153 deals with discrimination based on heredity risks. But our proposal is to put these two paragraphs together and form a paragraph that speaks of unequal treatment. In fact, it is more in line with the Constitution. To understand why hate crimes must be combated, one must first understand the difference between hate speech and hate speech. Angry speech is angryly spoken or written words, saying bad things about someone, insulting them, grossly rude. Although it is unpleasant, it is not prohibited by law. It is also not prohibited in the light of our draft; criticising someone with very harsh words is not prohibited in the light of our draft. The enemy is, according to the dictionary explaining the Estonian language, fierce intolerance and hatred, unacceptable hatred against someone. The former President of the Supreme Court and Judge Rait Maruse of the European Court of Human Rights write to the Ministry of Justice, referring to the fact that hate as a harder form of anger clearly includes psychological assault, violence or an appeal to it. He says: "Angry speech may have signs of mental violence, but it may not be. Depends on the circumstances and the behaviour of the parties. Poverty, however, as a harder form of anger, clearly involves a psychological attack, violence, or a call for it. Any violence, both physical and mental, must be punishable in order to remedy the victim's suffering and suppress any further similar attacks and may have consequences." In order to be condemnable and punishable, it must have clearly qualified features. According to the European Union's understanding, hate speech will be punishable if it is racist, xenophobic, anti-person, anti-group and violent, and not based on the individual characteristics of the person being attacked, but based on his or her group membership, i.e. his or her nationality, colour of skin, gender, religion, disability, sexual orientation, etc. These are qualities that a person cannot choose for himself. They're natural and due to their affiliation. The right to speak angryly, to insult someone, to verbally attack, no one will take away this Reform Party's bill. If someone does what I said before verbally attacks, insults someone, then according to civil law, the victim has the right to file an action for the defence of his rights, and that is what people are increasingly doing if they are insulted in any way. But now there are no consequences for the hostilities. When people are called upon to enmity on the basis of their group membership or are called upon to commit violence against a particular group, nothing will happen. For example, a person who has a lot of watchers on social media or who is a good orator calls for the beating of homosexuals or for people of certain skin color to be driven away from Estonia. If one or more people take action on this call and really beat somebody up, they're responsible, but whoever called for violence is not responsible for anything. However, [his call] poses a threat to public order, as calling and responding to violence always gets out of hand. Public hatred grows easily into action, and then it is too late to hold back violence or control it. Examples of such acts can be found in European history, whether it is the hatred of Jews, Gypsies, homosexuals or other minorities, which has gone directly into violence. If we think of recent history, we will remember the 1995 Srebrenica Massacre, where more than 8,000 Bosniac men, Muslim men and young men, were killed. Now for public order. When reference is made to the comments of the Penal Code that what this public order is or why it is important that it also falls under [the provision], the comments of the Penal Code state that it is the foundations of people's collective life, communication in a society that exists regardless of the specific authority and form of state and which aims to ensure the safety of members of society. Disturbing public peace cannot generally be deduced from insulting a particular person. It is imputable to activities aimed at the general public, which consist of opposing different social groups and underestimating, disparaging or otherwise marginalising some groups. Historian David Vseviov explains this in an interview published in LP on 20 November 2020 as follows: "Talking to the poses always leads to simplification. But this is not so much a rhetorical issue as the potential danger of this rhetoric. [---] Historical experience says that after identifying the root of evil, the representatives of this community will be marked. And then, and that makes perfect sense, because it is the representatives of evil that they should be killed to achieve universal happiness. And for some reason, there have always been people who have understood things that way." That is why the draft we have tabled is very narrow and concerns only hate speech, not hate speech, angry speech. At present, only when you call for violence and it poses a threat to someone's life, health or property is punishable by criminal penalties. But if anyone responds to that call and takes action, nothing will happen. American psychologists believe that hate crimes are a unique form of violence against the identity of another person. In 1954, psychologist Gordon Allport developed a scale that describes the stages of the process of prejudice and discrimination. The first step is the use of derogatory expressions, which are characterised by the fact that the majority of the members freely joke on the account of the minority and represent those belonging to the minority in negative colours. The danger of the first degree is expressed by introducing the following steps of the scale. The second step is prevention, where the majority avoids minority members. The third step is discrimination, which means that the minority is denied opportunities or does not offer services to them. It is already active damage that occurs to part of society. The fourth degree is a physical attack and the target is the property, life and health of minorities. And the fifth degree, or the last degree, is the expression, ethnic cleansing or genocide. According to Allport, the first must be avoided in order to prevent the latest levels. Estonia, together with other European countries, has agreed that public incitement to violence is punishable by criminal penalties. However, Estonia has not complied with this agreement. We are the only ones in Europe, together with Romania, who have not done so, and Estonia is also facing a financial penalty for this. But that's not the point. The main thing is that we have so far been in the same value zone as Europe. We share the same history with other European countries. History, like I said, tends to happen again, but we don't really want to see it happen again. To sum up, the right to speak angryly will not be taken away by anyone with this bill; there will be no restriction on freedom of expression. However, there is an attempt to avoid the consequences that public hatred in relation to the groups listed in § 12 of the Constitution inevitably entails. Protecting minorities from the violence of the majority is of liberal value, and it is not only in the interests of the safety of these groups, but actually in the interests of the whole internal security. If you want to know, I think I have some time left, then I will give examples from other countries. If there is fear that we will become apparent in restricting freedom of expression, we will look at examples from other countries. In the United States, the subject of hate crimes has been dealt with since the late 1980s, and it has been published in the 1990 Act, the English title of which is the Hate Crime Statistics Act. Basically, the general principles are written down there. In addition, the approach taken by states to hate crimes is different. In some areas, such as California, Ohio and Florida, there are separate offences of hatred that prohibit specific offences. But in other jurisdictions, such as New York, any hostile motivational activity has been criminalised and hate crime is considered a federal crime. In England and Wales, the Racial and Religion Hatred Act was adopted in 2006, according to which the composition of the hate crime is a sign of hatred against the group, threatening words or behaviour, an intention to provoke religious hatred, public or private activity in which these appeals are made. What is important is that this prohibition must not be interpreted as including a restriction on discussion or criticism of the expression of antipathy, ridicule, insult or abuse, religion, belief or practice, or religious and anti-religious propaganda. It's the same in Canada. But let's take a few examples for us, look at Germany from European countries. Instigation of hatred is linked to the following: incitement to hatred against, or incitement to violent or arbitrary treatment against groups of people, or insulting, blackmailing, humiliating and thereby humiliating human dignity in a way that can disrupt public peace. Again, a threat to public order. By the way, in Hungary and Poland too, maybe this is a model for you, such things have been criminalised. Sweden, Latvia, the Netherlands, Switzerland and France also have. These provisions may still be considered. What else is important? The case law of the European Court of Human Rights is important. The European Court of Human Rights has considered tolerance and the uniform respect for the dignity of all people to be fundamental values of a democratic and diverse society. According to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, restriction of freedom of expression is justified if the expression can... And these are the specific cases on the basis of which it has been concluded when the restriction of freedom of expression outweighs the attack on minorities. Here are examples: [Limiting freedom of speech] can lead to bloody retaliation or violence, be seen as a justification for violence or praise, harm public order in a politically sensitive region, undermine the dignity and rights of people belonging to sexual minorities, undermine the dignity and rights of people of other nationalities, lead to opposition and hatred of ethnic groups with different religions, and cause hatred against immigrants. Not all of these conditions have to occur at the same time, they're just examples out of different cases. And now Estonia. As I said, § 151 has still been in force. But it says there must be a danger to the life, health or property of a particular person. There are few such solutions in Estonia, when it comes to the register of judicial decisions, and they have all fallen off. That is why no one has been punished, precisely because it has not been possible to identify a particular victim. Perhaps when I answer the questions, I will also have the opportunity to point out a specific decision of the Supreme Court in order to show the problem that has arisen here, which is a call for violence and why it will fall away if you do not have a specific person whose life, health or property is at risk. In any case, we do not want such a situation to result in victims being called upon to hate people. We want to prevent that. We want to prevent this next phase. It is therefore reasonable to clarify this section of the Penal Code so that it is punishable to call for violence. Thank you. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U174	Thank you. Indeed, you also have questions. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U175	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm going to ask you such an illustrative question. If any person with a person with an A's is saying that all members of religious association B are stupid and stupid, then I understand that this is an angry speech or hate speech. If he declares that those who belong to that religious organization have no right to life and should not exist at all, it may be that some of his disciples take hold and go beating up some of the members of that religious organization whose consequences may be of all kinds, including death. I understand that in that case, those who beat up will be punished, but not the person A who gets attacked. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U176	Thank you for that question. Yeah, that's right. This question gives me the opportunity to refer to one of the Supreme Court's decisions, in which case it was quite this type of case. There was such a case that the person was brought to justice in accordance with the same Article 151. I'm going to read out the things he said that he wasn't held accountable for. In short, he was in the middle of a fight like this that publicly called for hatred and violence in the form of a code of conduct. I quote from the judgment that he called for: "The simplest and only sure way to get rid of a mindset is to physically destroy its carriers. The more random the choice of people and objects to be destroyed, the more difficult it is for them to develop a counter-strategy. " So, and now the subject of religion comes into play, it is a quote: " Since Christianity must disappear from Estonia, the only way to achieve this is to dismantle all Christians and Jews and destroy churches. " The following quote: "It is clear that as soon as terror in society has grown massive and enough people have turned the earth's faith, it is necessary at one point to move from hidden activities to public and to liquidate the power of the state. " The following quote: " By the time at least 20,000 men with enough modern armaments are gathered in the group, it will not be difficult to eliminate the government and parliament by their own means. " The following quote: "Escaping a democratic government, the fighters choose from among themselves, and the priest of the earth blesses the king. " The following quote: "All those who did not participate in the struggle for freedom and have no other favors in the arrival of freedom belong to slavery. " Another quote: "In case an excessive number of people fail to sell to a reliable country, liquidation is likely to have to be implemented here. "And the last quote: "Therefore, hospitals, maternity homes, schools and kindergartens must first fall under attack." These were the calls, in fact, the same call for the liquidation of Christians and Jews. However, since there was no particular person at risk of life and health, the person [the others urged] could not be held accountable. However, if it had been a charismatic person, it could be said that in this case it was a mad person or a mentally ill person, such as a person with a large audience or audience and followers, this could have resulted in very severe consequences. But the consequences for those people who are being destroyed, not for those who have urged others.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U177	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have given a pretty good sermon on Article 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which provides for a prohibition of discrimination. But you have not spoken a word about § 45 of the Constitution, which states that everyone has the right to freely distribute ideas, opinions, beliefs and other information. The whole question goes on to say that when implementing this law, we must always identify the person's fault, because if we look at this sanction, we will see that it is up to three years' imprisonment. It is clear in traffic: the red light shows that we must not move forward, the rule of the right hand says that the road user on the right hand always has priority. How does a person know if he is breaking or is not violating [the anti-hate crime] law? That's the question. This draft lacks legal clarity for ordinary citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U179	Thank you. First of all, calling for violence is actually quite clear, you want to hurt someone mentally or physically. It's violence. I don't think any reasonable person who thinks has to begin to define what it means to hurt someone. And when it comes to freedom of expression, I do not think that freedom of expression should be that I have the right to call for violence. Yes, I have the right to express critical opinions, and I have the right to say angryly, as I said, speaking out of anger does not prohibit this bill in any way; it does not restrict freedom of expression. But I do not understand what it is like to have to do with freedom of expression, that I must have the right to call on someone physically to attack, or that I must have the right to call on someone to liquidate. As I said with reference to American psychologists, this is actually the first phase to get to where somebody's really gonna get hurt. Now for legal clarity. We also had this issue on the Committee on Legal Affairs. I will give [as a comparison] one example from the Penal Code, but I can also give several examples. If you say that what I read is not clear, although it is very narrow, we will take, for example, § 262 of the Penal Code, "Irregularity of the public order," in which [is] a breach of the general requirements of conduct in a public place. If you say that it is very clear what the general rules of conduct are for their violation are the penalty provided for in the Penal Code, then I would argue that this is a much more unclear paragraph. How do you decorate it? What are the general behavioural requirements? I'll give you another example of my internship as a lawyer. When I was a lawyer, my main area was competition law. The main section to which the work was carried out was § 400 of the Penal Code, which concerns the anti-competitive agreement, as well as § 401 of the Penal Code. It lists those things that are forbidden. But how do you decorate it? What, for example, is an agreement between companies restricting production and servicing? How do you interpret it? Is this an oral agreement or a written agreement? Is it just a blink of the eye that results from? It is furnished by different practices, including those of the European Court of Justice and the European Commission, and by the Estonian courts [this approach], by the way, fully works. What's something exactly? There are analogys for that. I'll come back to our bill. This concerns a very narrow area of public incitement to violence, public incitement to hatred, which involves not only a threat to life and health, but also a threat to public order. And as I said, it's a public order that people don't feel safe because there may be disturbances.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U180	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U181	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You spoke at length in your presentation that logic is, I quote, public feud grows easily over action. It was a strong axis and a postulate. After that, you talked for a long time about how the situation in Estonia is such that there are no such decisions or cases. There's been a public feud, as you say, but there's no particular victim, it's like a basic problem. And then you came to the conclusion that you should start restricting freedom of expression so that public feuds could not grow over so that you could have suffered in concrete terms. At the same time, you yourself describe for a long time how there are no such cases in Estonia. Why do you need all this when you prove yourself that there is no such situation in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U182	Thank you for your question. That's not entirely true. What's the problem? The problem is that, for example, if someone attacks someone, someone gets attacked, Estonia does not collect statistics about why someone attacked someone. Did he go because he read some kind of Internet forum that said, I don't know, beat up the homos? Did he read it, and then he saw someone, didn't he, who might this definition apply to, and he went after him? That information will not be collected unless the victim says separately that I was attacked because I was gay or because I was attacked. And that's why these statistics aren't collected. The paragraphs under which these crimes are dealt with concern crimes against individuals, murders, beatings, harm to a person. These are not § 151.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U183	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U184	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Paragraph 151 "Instigation of feud' shall begin [in your draft] as follows: "For acts which publicly call for hatred [or violence against a person or group of persons]' and shall end with the words "where this constitutes a threat to public order'. You have made a number of assumptions in your presentation, but specifically mention some activities where there is a real threat to public order.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U185	Thank you. In public order, as I said, when you look at the comments of the Penal Code, it is the foundations of people's collective life and the social relations arrangements that exist regardless of their specific authority and form and which aim to ensure the safety of members of society. [Dangerisation of public order] is actually the case when certain groups of society no longer feel safe because they are called upon to hate and to act violently against them. In that case, there is already a real threat to public order because people no longer feel safe. But if you think about specific cases, I believe that [the threat to public order, for example] is known to be some kind of demonstration and that there is a call for violence against someone, and then the people who participate in this demonstration will come from it and attack someone. For example, if someone said that, well, I don't know... For example, I belong to a social group such as women, of course, women do not form a minority, yes, women are over 50% in our society, but if they were to call for violence against me, for example, that rape women, I would feel unsafe. I may not have the courage to go out at night anymore. I don't think that's good. I think we have a good, safe society right now, and it should stay that way. Let's see how our commentaries have evolved. It used to be that people made anonymous comments because they were ashamed to say as bad things as they said in their name and face, in public. Now the situation has moved in the direction of commenting on its face and name and saying quite nasty things in the same way. The question is whether the situation remains that people are living in a commentary on their anger, or whether they are moving somewhere from there, so that someone gets hurt. The question is, do we have to wait for the moment when someone gets hurt?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U186	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Good performer! The theory is interesting, but I'd like to try it out in practice. I ask that, if this law were adopted, what would happen after such a statement: "Cleanfire as a means does not run out of time. It's destroyed infected motherfuckers and vampire houses. You, [follows the name of the journalist], you're gonna get caught in the middle of the story. Burning will help if you cannot wake up and fall asleep half a century in a row from the humiliation of the Riigikogu if you do not love your country, but are taunted when all Estonian politics are to you [now I must make a beep] a beep, a beep and a sprained beep, when all your thoughts lead to the Riigikogu's salaries. " You indicated that you were a lawyer. Perhaps you can make an assessment of what would follow if this law entered into force. Could we be at risk of losing a good colleague Ligi in this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U188	Yes, thank you! Such a statement is followed by the fact that this person, who has been so insulted and angryly attacked, can go to court and claim compensation for damage, for moral damage. But this speech, which you have read, does not call for any form of violence against the public or against members of the social group. This case, or the speech you have made, would not fall under § 151.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U189	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U190	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You were essentially talking and playing with words like "intolerance" and "social groups" or something like that. So let's talk about social work and the abbreviation VSN, which is an injectable drug addict. Society has declared intolerance to this group of people, but we know that, for example, failure to provide assistance is punishable. This means that because of intolerance, several citizens may fail to provide assistance to the VSN if they have OD and [his survival] issues are in some minutes. Are we now going to talk about those politicians who are actually calling for intolerance against intravenous drug users? Maybe that's what some people think they're not gonna call an ambulance. But what happens if a person happens to be less competent and thinks that maybe it's epilepsy, and he's just scared? Some people are afraid of blood, too. What are the consequences of a citizen who does not provide assistance to an injectable drug addict or a politician who actually calls for us to launch a major campaign of intolerance against drug addiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U191	Thank you. This has nothing to do with this section because, as I said and repeatedly emphasised, § 151 speaks of public incitement to hatred and violence. It is not about intolerance in the broad sense, it is about calling for violence, and it was not in your description.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U192	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U193	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I read this section of § 151 "Instigation of Enemy." [It has been said here that punishment will be given] for acts that have been openly called upon to hate, for example in relation to convictions, where there is a threat to public order. I have several questions. We have different, conflicting beliefs in the saalisk. The question is, a person should know exactly what kind of a thing is a violation. Right now, it looks like it's very dissipating. I have a specific question. Is it intended to mark specific words in the application of this law so that the person knows that if he uses those words, it is incitement to hatred? Or is it simply based on the subjective interpretation of an official?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U194	Thank you. The incitement to violence and hatred, I think, is quite clear. In my opinion, it is still a matter of common sense that what is forbidden. [It is important to assess] whether there is a danger to public order or to someone's life and health by being hostile to someone. [If there is a danger,] in that case, the person can be held liable, but if not, there is no case. If you look at the dictionary explaining the Estonian language, which is part of the concept of hatred, you can see that it is a violent intolerance, hatred, unacceptable hatred. However, [§ 151 for application] must also have a consequence. You know very well that you have also studied law, that there must also be a subjective composition. All these traits must be present together, and in this case the person can be held accountable. You must have subjective characteristics, you must have a full qualified composition. I believe that, as with other sections of the Penal Code, it will be [in practice] that what goes under it and what does not go under it will be furnished. I think we need to look at the set. Just speaking hostilely doesn't have a consequence.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U195	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U196	Thank you! First of all, I think this is a very important and fundamental debate, and I am very grateful to the Reform Party for raising and discussing this issue. I guess I'll just sort of pick up where some of the previous speakers have started. It is quite clear to me what it means when someone publicly calls for violence. In addition, [this provision] lists a number of examples of groups. I would point out at this point that [the Chamber] has been going through for a long time, as if this paragraph only protects minorities, although its wording does not actually specify that it must be a minority group. Indeed, it can also be women who are in the majority of society, or some other group who are actually in the majority. But yes, there is also the phrase 'is a threat to public order', which is perhaps the biggest question mark for me. How is expostly identified, or what indicates that there is indeed a threat to public order? The same problem is the case with threats. It has been very difficult for the victims of threats to prove that they are in real danger.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U197	Thank you. Many sections of the Penal Code have the same concern that they need to be furnished. But as I said, the comments of the Penal Code explain what this public order is and what must happen. [The important thing is] that security is being reduced. For example, if there is a large group of people who follow a very skilled speaker and he calls for such [violent] things, then it can be said that there may be a threat to public order because people no longer feel secure. People in this social group no longer feel safe. At the moment, the main problem is that there is no risk to the person in the case of complaints. I will give you the same example that you said was calling for violence against women. As a woman, I go to the police and say that I, as a woman, feel that I am being attacked by this [invitation]. Right now, the police would say to me that you have no grounds because it wasn't specifically directed at you, there is no danger to your life or your health. And the caller of violence gets away with it. However, if, for example, as a result of this and we do not know whether there is a connection with this particular call for proposals that will cause more harm to women, then there is, in any case, a risk of public order, because these people no longer feel safe. You can make proposals on how to better formulate [the provision]. However, just as with other sections of the Penal Code, this provision provides that it is furnished by case law, by the comments of the Penal Code, as well as by the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, where there are examples of what this might lead to.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U198	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U199	Thank you very much. Good waitress! There's a lot of questions for me. First of all, the complaint: we have the corona and we should deal with the corona. This is a major major problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U200	You're the one who's coming to say it! [[Laughing.]] Please, really, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U201	But now we are taking the decision of the European Union for 2008 and we are going to deal with this decision of the European Union, which is 12 years old. Why? The second question is why you have made such a very severe paradigmatic change. § 151 of the Penal Code currently in force makes it very clear that we are guided by a person's actions in terms of danger to a person, his property, but you make it completely, lose the person and assign public order to the subject. It's a non-liberal approach. Why are you doing this? Does it come from that... Ah, okay! Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U202	First of all, of course, it is extremely ludicrous that we are dealing with this issue during the Corona. Let me remind you that you yourself are pushing through a referendum that has nothing to do with the corona. Our bill has been submitted, I think, seven weeks ago or even earlier, but it only came into being right now. You can't take down all the topics right now. Why are we doing this? Because growing hostility directly threatens freedom, democracy, the rule of law and human rights. Thanks to your referendum, which you intend to promote intolerance towards certain people or groups of societies, there is a risk that things will get out of hand, now much worse than they have been before. There have been very bad consequences in other parts of the world when hatred or hatred have been allowed to move on from these different stages. Do we have to wait for these bad consequences, or could we still put things in order in this regard and say that it is not actually okay that we encourage violence or hatred, which can have very serious consequences? There aren't enough Estonians to think it would make sense to lose someone. The Riigikogu must deal with all kinds of topics that are relevant to society.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U203	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U204	Good chairman of the sitting! Good waitress! You have justified your protected draft by the fact that we belong to the same value area as the Western European countries. Please tell me whether you really think we can belong to the same value area as them, being a nation state whose ultimate goal is the preservation of its nationality, language and culture through time to belong to the same value area as those whose immigration policy has made it possible for indigenous minorities to remain in their historic homeland.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U205	Thank you. The ultimate goal of other countries is to preserve their nationality and culture. In this sense, I see no contradiction here. The fact that Estonia has been part of the European value area, we have wanted to be part of it since the beginning of the Republic. Let us recall the call, "Let us be Estonians, but let us also become Europeans.'. I think these values have been the same all along. I don't know which country you're talking about, where the indigenous nation is outnumbered. I do not know of any European country with a minority of indigenous peoples. I do not understand this concept in terms of what this nation state is. Does this mean an ethnic nation state [of] only those whose genes show that there is no one in their family tree who has a gene on the outside? What's a nation state? After all, the principle of our country is that we are a country of citizens, and citizens can also be of another nation, they may have different roots. Or do you think the country is only the one with only the right people? As far as I know, the Estonian Constitution says that Estonia is an independent and independent democratic republic, where the highest authority is exercised by the people. Who are the people? The people are generally Estonian citizens... Estonian residents, sorry! Not the citizens of Estonia, but the residents of Estonia. They are the people, and by the way, they have not always been Estonians. Of course, we can argue on this issue, but I am still sticking to the fact that the European value area is certainly what we have shared.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U206	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U207	Mr. President! Good waitress! I have to admit, I was rather embarrassed to hear this. There were several contradictions, and there was also a contradiction between your explanation and the text of the legislative proposal. But there were also directly wrong claims. I'll only get one of them. You have provided a list of countries where hate speech or hate speech has been banned and you have highlighted the United States. That is not the case in the United States. In the United States, several attempts have been made to introduce it. There are a dozen Supreme Court rulings which state that the first amendment to the Constitution takes precedence over all of them [tests]. And when you gave examples of America, you confused the Hate Crime and the Hate speech. They're not the same. [[Echo Kallas comments.]] Yeah, you told me that Hate crime was criminalized, but it's not hate speech. How?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U208	It's not. That's not what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U209	Now I want to ask you if you don't understand, or if you want to mislead us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U210	Thank you. I've been talking about hate crimes all along, I didn't talk about hate speech. I haven't talked about it, and our bill doesn't talk about it either. Our draft relates to public acts calling for hatred or violence against a person or group of persons in relation to actual or suspected citizenship, nationality, race, physical characteristics, health status, disability, age, gender, language, origin, ethnicity, religion, belief, sexual orientation, gender identity or property or social status, and which pose a threat to public order. When we talk about § 58 of the Penal Code, [our draft] adds to the aggravating circumstances that the offence is committed out of hostility against a person in relation to his or her actual or presumed nationality, nationality, race, physical identity, health status, disability, age, gender, language, origin, ethnicity, religion, belief, sexual orientation, identity or property or social status. For example, killing committed in connection with animosity as a result of the affiliation referred to in § 12 of the Constitution would in such a case be regarded as a criminal offence in aggravating circumstances. In that case, a crime committed in the Penal Code, perhaps under another section of the Penal Code, such as bodily injury to a person, is what you are talking about. It's the parallel you developed with the American rules. But basically, if you look at these wordings, I also said that there's a Hate Crime crime in the United States, but they have separate offences in different states, so in this sense it's very different from one state to another. But, basically, once I read here, the federal crime is a hate crime when it comes to serious interference with the constitutional freedom of movement between states. In this sense, yes, it is limited to when [the crime] becomes federal. But I am not as familiar with the American judicial system as I am with the Continental European judicial system; we have different approaches. After all, they do not write laws directly as we are accustomed to, but rely very much on cases that interpret the way in which one or the other thing is dealt with. But in any case, there are rules like this in the United States. I don't know exactly what the details are about the American system, but I don't know if it matters at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U211	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U212	Honourable Deputy Speaker! Good performer! You defended immigrants here, most of whom are Muslims. But do you know that there are Muslim schools in Western Europe that have Vachabist textbooks that call white crusaders and homosexuals, and little of that, Jews, called monkeys and white people, Christians, pigs? How does it qualify? Do you think this is an hate speech?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U213	I do not understand the introduction to your question. Where did I protect immigrants, or how did I even touch them here? I did not notice it myself, but only by referring to the case of the European Court of Human Rights. But again, I'm not the person who's going to qualify the substance of the article. All you've read is very ugly, but I don't know what to say about it. I don't know if there's a direct call for violence. I don't know how to comment on this particular case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U214	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U215	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The devil is in the details. It seems to me that the former Justice Ministers of the Reform Party, Rein Lang and Hanno Pevkur, sensed it when they opposed the submission of our pending draft law in this form. What do you really think, can this weakening of freedom of expression and biting off a piece of it not at some point counterattack the Reform Party if it is found that some of your statements are not like that? People are often intimidated or they want the bad guys to be pushed away, but can such a clear weakening of freedom of expression not be applied against your own party?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U216	Thank you. There is no limit to freedom of expression in this bill. As I have repeatedly pointed out, throwing words at someone angryly is still allowed. I do not know that my party would have called for violence against some social group, and I do not think that this party will continue to do so. Of course, if someone does, we should be accountable to the law in the same way as all other Estonian citizens and, of course, this section should then be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U217	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, The mass killing organised by Breivik in Norway followed, as the study explained, the angry calls on social media, there is no doubt about it. Let me give you another example. The military forces of many developed countries carry out systematic work to prevent war crimes. Any uncontrollable speech that can provoke subconscious, irrational violence in a critical situation is already punishable at the level of sub-units' superiors. This practice has evolved as a result of several wars of the 20th century. It is certainly important to strike a balance between freedom of expression and hate speech calling for crime. How do you see this balance point?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U219	Thank you. This point of balance has, in fact, been deduced by the European Court of Human Rights, which in practice is a very important subject of freedom of expression. In fact, in certain cases, the European Court of Human Rights has found that the prevention of possible violence in certain cases outweighs the restriction of freedom of expression. You cannot call for violence because it can have [serious] consequences. According to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, this is justified in a variety of cases, for example where, due to a conflict situation in society, [freedom of speech] can lead to bloody retaliation, violence. Why is that wording like that? It's just a court decision, Syrek vs. Turkey. This case called for violence against the Kurds, if I remember correctly. I don't have that case printed out. But, in principle, these are things where the risk or threat to the safety of society is greater than the restriction that a person may not call for violence. His freedom of expression is so restricted that he may say ugly words towards someone, but he must not incite hatred so that it will result in someone being hurt. I agree that this point of balance must certainly be made clear in our own case law. But we are helping with the decisions of other countries and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which will help to put this [the provision] into practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U220	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U221	Thank you. This area is not very home to me, and I have not been in preparation for this draft either, but I have come to a position where I have to defend it or, to say the least, to justify it. That's what social media is like these days. Would you help me with the main points: what are the arguments why this law cannot be blamed for taking away freedom of speech, speech and hatred? What are these basic points, well concentrated?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U222	Thank you. I apologize to all those who have heard this many times. I'll answer again. The difference is that with this draft we will make incitement to hatred and incitement to violence punishable if it poses a threat to public order. The difference between angry speech and hate speech is that hate speech is angry words, insults, attacks, criticisms, this right is not taken away by anyone with this bill, whereas hatred, according to the dictionary explaining the Estonian language, is fierce intolerance, hatred and incompatibilities. Angry speech may have signs of psychological violence, but may not, depends on the circumstances. Poverty is a form of harder anger and includes a clear mental attack, violence, or a call for it. That's the difference. And, in principle, in order for hatred to be punishable by the practice of other European countries and the European Union's perceptions, it must be anti-person or anti-group and incitement to violence, not on the basis of individual characteristics, but on the basis of a person's group membership, i.e. the characteristics that the person has not chosen but is inherent and inherent. Why is such hatred prohibited? This is because there are different levels of hatred, and European history has shown that one phase leads to another. History shows how the enmity of Jews, homosexuals, and other minorities, the enmity of people with some group affiliation, has led to a step by step from intolerance to physically assaulting the hostiles. Basically, you can still speak angryly and insultingly, and of course people can sue you if you insult them, but there is no consequence of the Penal Code. This will follow when you specifically and openly call for violence.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U223	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U224	Thank you. Honourable waitress! When the Minister of Justice presented the position of the government in the Commission, he said that the law does not include social morality, § 151 (1) of the Penal Code already penalises the violation of more severe prohibitions, and the abstract definition is not appropriate according to the Ministry of Justice. Raivo Aeg said that § 58 of the Penal Code provides for aggravating circumstances and that this paragraph also mentions "other low motive" as an aggravating circumstance. [He added that] it is certainly possible to treat the expression of certain attitudes towards a social group, religion, gender, race, and so on. Does "other low motive" really include your bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U225	Thank you. That's actually a good question. This is a good example for all those who say that our draft is confusing, for example, in the same section of § 58, where we clearly state what could be an aggravating circumstance. We have said that there should be hostility towards a person in relation to his or her actual or believed group affiliation, and I will not be reading all these traits here. After all, this is much clearer than the 'low motive' that still needs to be furnished. So, in my opinion, § 58 (14), which we propose, helps to clarify the situation rather and makes it easier to classify whether it is an aggravating circumstance or not. Therefore, yes, I did not agree with the Minister of Justice in the Commission. There are many such wordings in the Penal Code, which are very abstract, even the same 'public order' that I read earlier as an example. So, yes, our provision is more precise.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U226	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would like to understand more precisely how you define this threat to public order. You were talking here about [public order] in the sense of the Penal Code, but I saw that the Penal Code does not define public order or threat to it. It is the law of law that defines public order, as well as the threat to public order, as well as the violation of the law. The law says: "The danger is that an objective assessment of the facts may be considered sufficiently likely to lead to a disorder in the near future. " But in your answers, you said that basically it is enough that people no longer feel safe. I don't know if I misunderstood anything, but it sounds really scary. Take, for example, the question of political convictions: someone says something about conservatives or liberals, and the person then goes to the police and says that he does not feel safe enough because he thinks he is a conservative or a liberal. There goes the criminal case, the person gets suspicious, the machine starts. And then you say, "Let the courts settle and there will be precedents." Am I really getting this right, or are you not quite imagining it? Sorry I'm late!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U228	Thank you for that question. This section of the Law Enforcement Act, which you read out, represents very well, in my opinion, what constitutes a "danger to public order." My interpretation was based on the comments of the Penal Code, but in any case I believe that [interpretation] is also based on what is enshrined in the law, and this section of the Law on Law Enforcement actually states exactly when danger may arise. It will certainly be used for interpretation. I think that the case that someone is now going to [police] and that it is simply a matter of random initiation, is not real, and it is not real at this point. I myself know that there has been no procedure for most of these matters in relation to specific issues, if I have been subjected to very clear threats. But the law on law enforcement is definitely used in public order. Thank you for referring to this section!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U229	Valdo Randpere has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U230	Good manager! Unfortunately, the text of this bill is no longer on any shelf in the Chamber. Would it be possible to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U231	I hope so. I hope my colleagues will help. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U232	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have to say, you're flirting here with such cool words as "awesome enmity." But if there isn't a pretty fierce feud, then basically [this section] couldn't go under. My question, too, is that there was a bloody revenge in the Commission. But it has different forms, such as community involvement, or self-responsibility, maybe in another format it's just gossip, which causes reputational damage. And this could be followed by material damage, as you indicated. Property damage is also [possible], not just that [someone] may come down. However, this misunderstanding could lead to a conflict that could escalate into physical conflict. To what extent does this blood have to be that bloody revenge you referred to? Or a scratch is enough, even if, for example, you miss an attack?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U233	Thank you. Since this bloody revenge was also a matter for you in the Commission, I sent you an e-mail in addition to the European Court of Human Rights ruling so that you could read for yourself what this "bloody revenge" meant from the point of view of the European Court of Human Rights and what the danger was. I wouldn't refer it here. This solution was Syrek vs. Turkey, you can find it in your mailbox and read it for yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U234	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U235	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I would still like to find out how the paragraphs of your draft could be implemented. Paragraph 152 "Unequal treatment' of [the one you have proposed] states that it is possible to punish the unlawful restriction of a person's rights, for example because of his or her convictions. Lately, the Lens of the Opinion Portal has been removed from YouTube, in which Markus Järvi and Varro Vooglas have expressed their convictions on the basis of § 45 of the Constitution. These broadcasts have been removed, three broadcasts have been removed. At the same time, the clips of connections with different liberal views in the YouTube environment are still and exist. If this law were to be passed and entered into force, would Delfi, for example, carrying out censorship in YouTube, or his employees, be held accountable?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U236	Thank you. This § 152, which we propose, has been put together on the basis of the two current paragraphs and refers to the groups or conditions listed in § 12 of the Constitution. So in that sense, two things have been put together. The current Penal Code contains [two separate sections]: "Failure of equality" and "Diskrimination on the basis of hereditary risks." [In our draft] these two have been put together. But what is meant by [punishment] for restricting people's rights without a legal basis on the basis of their convictions? The point is, someone is being punished because he believes in something. Now, with regard to the steps that media platforms are taking, I think this is a completely separate issue. When I was in the European Parliament, there were a lot of proposals that we were going to restrict hate speech more widely, and precisely on the pretext that some platforms should restrict one thing or another. At the time, I also thought that we couldn't go along with it, because who would finally say what hate speech is? When we talk about our draft, it deals well with the narrow area, the incitement to violence, as I have repeatedly said here. But speaking of hate speech in a wider sense, it is indeed a threat to freedom of expression and precisely because who will ultimately decide. If, at this point in time, the decision should be taken by the public authorities, the institutions that have been given the corresponding power of organisation, they should decide on it, in case we say that platforms should take down one thing or another or put it up, then in fact we give the platforms the right to decide for themselves. Perhaps the institutions that we have created by the state will no longer decide, but will decide the people of the private sector in one word, the companies will decide. But who has given them this mandate? I do not know specifically about this case, which concerns the Lens, and [I do not know] what are the reasons why their broadcasts have been taken down. But I'm sure we can discuss it. If it can be shown that it is a discrimination against or hatred against people on the grounds of conviction, then it could, of course, be used as a basis for prosecuting people or businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U237	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U238	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I'm gonna grab the word that who's gonna decide when a case is brought to court. As we know, we don't have semantics, do we? Let me give you an example. When one of the social democrats, in a relatively prominent position, called on nationalists, citizens, to make holes in the heads of the nationalists, is it up to the judge to decide, in such a fragile situation, whether this is an angry speech or a call for violence, as you say, towards one group, or nationalists? Is the judge competent to decide on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U239	Yes, thank you! Judges are certainly competent to apply the law. What you describe, at least in the way you describe it, sounds like a public call to violence to me. Making a hole in the back of the head is, in fact, called on to eliminate people in principle because of their political convictions. Indeed, there is a group against which violence is called. In this way, without realizing, of course, a specific case, it would seem that it could be exactly the kind of thing that goes under it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U240	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U241	Your members really use a very flat mouth every once in a while, even Jürgen Ligi, but I don't think you should put him in jail for that. Andrus Punt, member of the Reform Party, a council member of Tartu, said that the EKRE members could set themselves on fire and also dig a grave for themselves. Well, maybe he'll grow up, don't put the young man in jail. But my question is broader. In Finland, Päivi Räsänen, a long-standing head of Christian Democrats, is under investigation, a former Minister of the Interior because he said homosexuality was a sin. Do we have a similar future in front of your bill? And what do you say to these accusations that this [proposal] is merely the desire of liberals to muzzle a conservative view of the world so that we cannot talk about homopropaganda or mass immigration?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U242	Thank you. Firstly, it is, of course, very interesting that the accusations come from the EKRE that reform parties behave rudely. But I think beauty is in the eye of the viewer. Let it go! I think we could both, or we could all turn down the tones and take these debates a little bit slower. But I repeat, the right to speak angryly does not take away our bill. The right to insult people does not take away our bill, although society would certainly be better off if we were not all constantly insulting each other. But that's not what our bill does. Our bill deals with public incitement to violence. That's the subject. I don't think we want anyone to get hurt.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U243	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U244	Thank you! Yes, that was a very important clarification. Indeed, colleagues here are very concerned about the freedom of expression of their army of trolls. Actually, it would be better if they didn't have an army of trolls at all. But here's my question. I have sometimes wondered, in the context of the chapter on threats, why there is a threshold at all, that if someone is threatened, there must actually be a threat. Suffice it to say that, you know, I was making a joke out of this drunk, actually I wasn't going to shoot or stab anyone, and the police say that there was no clear, no danger, you don't have a knife or a gun, so I guess you're joking. But I'm sure whoever's threatened feels bad. In the same way, could this law not be limited to publicly calling for violence against a person or a group of persons, which is illegal action, whether or not there was a real threat to public order? I'm sorry, I was out of time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U245	Yes, thank you! It's a yes theme that when everything finally comes down to it. As I said, there are no cases relating to § 151 where the decision to bring a person to justice would have been taken, even though these appeals have been the same as they have been. Is it even supposed to be there? But in my opinion, the way [the threat to public order] is laid down in the law of order and the way the Penal Code defines it in a broader sense, what this threat to public order is, it actually covers it. When we talk about threats to specific individuals, it really surprises me too, having repeatedly encountered it myself, that it is said that there was no [real danger], that you actually have a person with a knife next to you, and that he would almost be in danger. But as long as there is no such situation, there is no danger. But some crazy guy reads it and thinks, oh, those are bad guys, all right, but I'm not gonna say anything, I'm just gonna do it. I'm afraid we've seen it. After all, in Poland, I don't remember his name, the mayor Adam, who was attacked like that and stabbed and killed. Or we will take a British MEP who lost his life just as much because of this general anger: a person came and took hold of it and that is why the other person is no longer there. Do we have to wait for such a result, or can we still react to it before it does? That's the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U246	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U247	Thank you. When a person with a lot of watchers on social media distributes the expression "Commers to the oven! " With a list of people, does he incite hatred or call for violence? Should he be held liable under § 151?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U248	Thank you. You're already putting me in the role of judge here, that I have to say one way or the other. But that's the way it sounds to me, it's an incitement to violence against a very specific group that he doesn't like. Does this [case] go under the assumption that, since it has read the individual, these people can go to [court] and claim the protection of their rights, or can it be said that all those who have ever belonged to the Communist Party are members of this group and that [calling against them] was his request? It is difficult to say how serious this appeal is in this case. But if you use purely grammatical interpretation, it could rather be a call for violence against these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U249	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U250	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I still have a strong déjà-vu feeling like I've fallen back into another society, a pot. This is because, on the one hand, when the legislation currently in force talks, as I have already emphasised, about the danger to the person, his property and his life, you have now taken that person away and brought about social order, so that the social order now needs protection. But it is a matter of sanctions. If the law currently in force provides for a fine of 300 fine units or arrests for causing danger to a person, and the arrest is short-term, now that the threat is caused to public order, prison sentences are provided for. What's the point of tightening up the sentence? What is the basis for this and what is it motivated about?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U251	Thank you. Amendments can always be made to this if the punishment is too harsh. To be honest, I am not an expert on criminal law, and this proposal has instead come from the Ministry of Justice. [There will be a decision] on the basis of which these penalties will be imposed in the Penal Code, so that you will be arrested or fined for one thing, you will be sentenced to prison for another thing and how long you will be sentenced to prison. Knowing also the case law, the way in which these paragraphs are interpreted, how much the prosecutor demands and how much the court ultimately determines when looking at the case law, can also raise many questions. Why do you think some things get too much punishment? For example, why is possession of cannabis a more serious crime than any other crime against a person? Where's the balance? But if you think that this punishment should be more lenient, you can make an amendment. I'm not stuck in this [punishment] in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U252	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U253	Thank you. First of all, I am not against the need to improve and clarify our legislation on combating hate crimes. But this particular bill raises some questions about me. Let us imagine, for example, that we have a demonstration. At this demonstration, the famous song "Ça Ira" is sung from the French Revolution, which, as we know, calls for aristocrats to be hung on lampposts. In addition, there are some other signs of this demonstration, such as "Until governments exist, there will be no peace" or "Down capitalist pigs!'. On the basis of this bill, if it were to become a law, could all these demonstrators be imprisoned for three years? Let's add another imaginary situation here. Let's say at this demonstration, somebody throws a bank in the window. Would that mean that all demonstrators go to jail?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U254	Thank you for your question. First of all, I only know one family who said they were aristocrats. So in that sense, I don't think this group is very wide. That's a joke. But all the other examples you gave me were just examples of very angry speech, weren't they? Those were hateful words, but they do not directly call for violence. Maybe it's not really what goes under this bill. All these slogans are angry, as demonstrations often are, but they do not directly call for violence, so that there will be punishment. That's an interesting question, by the way. I began to think that indeed, when it comes to a demonstration, for example, where there are many of these people. However, the principle of the Penal Code is that a particular person can be held accountable. For example, if someone in that demonstration stands with a very specific poster calling for violence, it does not extend to all demonstrators, but only to the person who makes this call in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U255	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U256	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. First of all, I would like to address this previous question. The American Hate Crime has nothing to do with hostilities, there is nothing to do with speech. Okay. But I would like to point out that what you are saying here, by presenting this bill, ties very badly with the text of the bill. If, by the way, you said that you had a number of contradictions in this remote control, on the one hand, that there must be a direct call for some kind of violence or other bad deed, then it is still punishable. But if you keep talking, quoting an American psychologist, that everything starts with some kind of joke and ends with genocide, so there's this kind of sequence, a continuous sequence, do we have to ban jokes, because they lead to genocide?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U257	Thank you. The first comment, this Hate Crime Statistics Act, on this point, I refer to subsection 1 (1) of our draft, with which we add an aggravating circumstance, or aggravating fact, is the fact that an offence has been committed based on hostility against a person, etc., the whole list. If there is such an aggravating circumstance, a specific criminal offence against a person, if the aggravating circumstance is identifiable, will turn it into a hate crime, as it is in America under Hate Crime. In this sense, this is what I am referring to, not the specific part of the speech. Now, the other half touched... Excuse me, what did the other half touch? [[The room will be explained.]] Oh, jokes, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, sorry! The other half touched the jokes. Well, it was just an example that there are different stages. Psychologists say that one thing can lead to another, and preventing something in the first phases can prevent serious consequences. But jokes have been mentioned separately, jokes aren't explicitly forbidden. For example, the same thing that I pointed out in other countries' practice when I refer to Britain. It explicitly states that [the prohibition laid down in the law] must not be interpreted as including a restriction on discussion, criticism, antipathy or ridicule. That is why our aim is that this provision should be as narrow as possible in order to eliminate the risk of restricting freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U258	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U259	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I realized here a little while ago that we don't have aristocracy if we don't have class, but there are some aristocrats, and they might still be hanged by a lamppost. (Echo Kallas: "What? " But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you said that your party had never called for animosity against any social group. But the vice-president of your own party has publicly written that EKRE is fanned by exceptionally stupid women and that these latter represent not sex, but stupidity and evil. It is still incitement to hatred and hatred and incitement to discrimination. All right, maybe he wouldn't do anything about women who are estimated to be around 30,000 in Estonia, but he's being watched by over 6,000 people on his public Facebook page, and suddenly they have some bad idea coming to mind. If we approve this bill, should your vice-chairman review his statements in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U260	Thank you. First of all, I admire your ability to turn the answers somehow so that somewhere I can get caught up, like I said something that the aristocrats could hang or whatever. I didn't say anything like that. Oudekki referred to a call there [singing]. If you are concerned about your family, because you yourself have called yourself aristocrats, I believe there is no danger to you. Now, as far as the quote you read out is concerned, it's definitely an ugly quote. As one of these women, you can apply to the courts. This is offensive, but it certainly does not go under § 151, because it does not call for violence against you in any way. I don't see how it could go under that section. But in any case, of course, the ugliness must be reduced, and I do not justify it in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U261	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U262	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! In paragraph 4 of your draft explanatory memorandum, which sets out the effects of the law, there is no word about § 45 of the Constitution, according to which everyone has the right to freely disseminate ideas, opinions, beliefs and other information (it goes on). Why did you not touch on this provision, which clearly represents freedom of expression in Estonia at all, either the same way or the other way? Could this have been because you yourself have no confidence in where this bill might actually lead? Or was it because Hanno Pevkur, who once carried the Justice Minister's briefcase, pointed out that it was not worth writing such an explanatory statement, just in case?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U263	Thank you. First of all, I have to say, look, we are in opposition and we are doing all the things ourselves. We have no officials to help us draw up drafts and explanatory notes. We must do this ourselves, unlike you who can rely on ministry officials. That's one. Secondly, there is no reference to the paragraph of freedom of expression in this draft because I really did not believe that anyone's freedom of speech must include the fact that he can call on anyone to violence. But we can complement the explanatory statement. I understand this concern, it has been repeatedly raised that it is necessary to refer to § 45 of [Constitution]. There is a reference to the paragraph, in this connection also to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which seeks to highlight this balance, which I have repeatedly referred to here. Yeah, we can update it to make it clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U264	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U265	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have a problem with this bill. My sense is that the implementation of this law will be highly cognitive. I'm not worried about the courts. The court has the right, depending on the substance of the case, to take it to the proceedings or not, but the police do not have that right. The police must deal with all complaints that come in regardless of the seriousness of the complaint. This procedure may take five minutes, five days, five months or five years. Isn't there a danger that at some point the police will be buried in complaints, given that we live in a highly sensitive world where insulting everyone and everything is unspeakably trendy? If you go to a panel building area where there's a real war at night about parking places, every balcony will shout, "I'll fucking kill you!" or "Ubju!" Or whatever.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U266	Thank you. If you look at the entire Penal Code, the police actually have to decorate all these paragraphs. However, given that there are practically no solutions in court proceedings or in the register of cases at present under § 151, this means that there is more or less the same text [of our draft], simply the question of whether there is a threat to the life, health or property of a person or, in general, to public order, that the risk that there will now be mass complaints based on § 151 is not, in my opinion, quite real. And the indication that a person from the balcony threatens to kill you goes under a completely different section, it has nothing to do with incitement to hatred or violence. But I guess there's a lot of paragraphs that need to be furnished. The police will certainly be very successful in excluding [complaints] if they see that there is no real threat. Again, I'm referring to all kinds of death threats that they say there's no real danger. They bounce them all back pretty easily. And I think here too they see that if there is no real threat to public policy, they can reject the complaint or say that we are not going to start the procedure. I'll tell you one more thing. If it really happens that the police are buried in these complaints, then it is always possible to change the law if there really are a lot of unfounded complaints. I would remind you that once, for example, slander was criminalized. When you insulted someone or insulted you, you could turn to the police who started criminal proceedings. It's gone. It's gone over to civil sue. You can go to court if someone insults you and taunts your honor, but it's not a Penal Code paragraph anymore. If the [police] are buried in [complaints], these things can be reviewed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U267	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U268	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When I asked you where the line runs between when there is an argument and when there is discrimination that you want to bring into the law, you gave me such an answer that there is the case-law of the European Court of Justice and the European Commission's case-law, not to mention the courts of Estonia. It's basically a muzzle. On the basis of § 45 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, I have the right to have my own opinion and conviction, and I am convinced that you are actually moving on the course set by the European Union. I recall that pandemic money was made dependent on three legal instruments: hate speech, same-sex marriage and labour and learning migration. Right now, you are doing the thing that the European Union is calling for. You are in favour of same-sex marriage, against classicalism, against labour and learning mobility, because you know that there is a security threat. In essence, you are moving towards federalisation, which means that Estonia's independence is beginning to disappear. What and how much does the Reform Party get for this campaign?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U269	Thank you. First of all, how can I oppose a classic marriage if I'm in a classic or traditional marriage myself? What are you talking about? Where is this coming from? Secondly, I'll talk real slow now, then you'll understand. I referred to the case-law of the European Court of Justice and the European Commission's case-law when I spoke about § 400 of the Penal Code, which talks about competition crimes and states what competition offences are. The case law of the European Court of Justice and the case law of the European Commission are used to fill in this section: these examples, which have been considered punishable by analogous paragraphs, are also used in Estonian practice to understand what is prohibited under this section and what is not. But that other story was so confusing and incomprehensible that I don't even know how to comment on it. We'll stick to this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U270	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U271	Good manager! Good waitress! My story is specific, not insane. I quote a good former Member of the European Parliament of the Socialists, your colleague. He himself wrote this: "I have an idea for the leaders who strongly promote violence (Helds, Põlluaas, Ernits, Vooglas, Järvi). Ernst Röhm was a beautiful, effective attack teamman. But what happened to him? Yes, indeed he was killed. At the moment, you seem to be on a good course, with many older middle-aged men following you with enthusiasm and cheering. It won't last forever. You too, leaders, can easily happen if you go to Lavrent on Berial. " If you remember, he got a head shot with a parabellum. My question is this: would Article 151 of [this bill] also apply to Indrek Tarand and could he be expected to be in a prison tower of up to a year?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U272	You can certainly make such a complaint if you vote in favour of this draft and this draft becomes a law. Then you can try what the police and the court think about the text you read under this section.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U273	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U274	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! First of all, thank you: I haven't heard such a good first-reading report in a long time. And so substantive answers! At least I was helped to clarify the purpose and application of this bill. I ask you, according to the questions in the Chamber, it is somehow surprising why we now need to criminalise the speech of hatred or make such a legislative amendment. I ask your opinion that the environment is actually changing, the technology is evolving. A hundred years ago, when it was possible for a well - off person to print flyers and call something down on the marketplace, it is now possible to draw the hatred, the desire of violent death of someone in several languages around the world, so that it can reach people who have motivation, resources, and also the will to fulfill that desire. Is this bill because our lives have changed and the right needs to be brought into line with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U275	Thank you, very good question! And thank you for the good words. Yes, it really is that one day you had to find a place where you could print flyers, and then somehow you had to be able to share these flyers, but today information is moving at a high speed to all corners of the world. And there are consequences. Actually, we live in a different time. I really like Winston Churchill's quote, which he said about a lie, but which I think sounds very good today: "The wrong is already halfway around the world before the truth gets his pants on. " If we put it in the context of today's information society, it's like there's no way. The information is moving so fast and it's very difficult to pull it back. What is really going on, as I said before, is going on. A few years ago, we had a situation where people were ashamed to call violence with their name and face, using anonymous commentaries, but today we have come to the point that people on Facebook are making completely disgusting calls with their face and name. Now the question is whether there is a move from there and someone is actually hurt or stopped there. As I said before, referring to American psychologists, they'd rather move on. And as David Vseviov said, whenever the root of evil is identified, the logical conclusion is that the root of evil must be destroyed in order to achieve happiness. In my opinion, this quote was also very good when he said that for some reason there have always been people who have understood things just the way that someone has made such a call. We have moved forward in time, and it is very right that the legal space also needs to be modernised in order to get a little control over the amount of communication and anger or hatred between us in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U276	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U277	Good performer! Indeed, I went all the way to describing the Vachabist textbooks. But as a former Member of the European Parliament, tell me whether these hateful school textbooks, which are mostly used in Western European countries, where hate speech is criminalised, are there contradictions? Words often come true, bombs explode in Europe, and many of them get inspired. Maybe we should do something.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U278	Thank you. That is why we have put forward this bill so that we should do something about it. This is our proposal to do something about it. However, as far as the practice of other countries is concerned, I am indebted to the answer on this matter. When you say that these books are like this, [and you ask] why no one has been held accountable there, I don't know. I think we need to check it out with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U279	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U280	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I will still come back to what Mr Reitelmann asked for earlier, but I will ask you a little more precisely. Look, we have heard a lot of this legal language here today, but we are also being watched by simple people who maybe over the years have not received some answers and maybe have not gotten the right they want. Tell me, if we now adopt this law, is it because of such a post as the former Euro-Parliament Ambassador Indrek Tarand (I quote): 'If only a gun could be caught, it would blow a hole in the back of the head of all the bourgeois nationalists' 'that would be like a crime inciting against a group, in which case it would not be possible to sue itself, under this law, if we passed the bill you proposed as a law, Indrek Tarand could be imprisoned?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U281	Thank you. Whether to be put in prison will be decided by the court, but I would say that what you read would go under § 151, which we proposed to call against a group of society, incite hatred and violence. I suggest you actually go try it on § 151, as it is now in the Penal Code, to see what the result is. If you are told that this is an incitement to hatred and violence, and the group is also identifiable, isn't it, as you say, but there is no real threat to the life and health of a person?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U282	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U283	Thank you. Good waitress! I come back to Madis Milling's question, which I think was the point. There are repeated questions about individual cases in this Chamber, as confirmed by the attempt to test the suitability of some form of Facebook post in the context of this law. In fact, it has a broader meaning in my understanding. The link between hate speech, radicalisation and action has been proven by dozens and dozens of studies. What I understand is that this is rather a section against systematic incitement to hatred, which should prevent radicalisation, make it punishable. Would it not be conceivable to clarify this in this direction in order to emphasise systemicity? It is much easier to prove the system than, for example, the danger posed. With this, we have many problems in Estonian case law: if nothing has been done, the danger cannot be proved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U284	Yeah, maybe. This is a good proposal to take down the risk of these complaints coming from any such Facebook post. If this is systemic hatred, then maybe it actually has the result that we want to reduce the incitement of hatred and through radicalisation and through the fact that people are actually getting hurt. Maybe that's one solution. We can propose amendments if the main problem is that public order is something that is unclear. Although, as Siim Kisler read out, the concept of public order in the Law Enforcement Act is actually quite clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U285	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U286	Good manager! Good waitress! If you compare § 151, which is currently in force, and what you propose, then [the first] is about the danger to life and health, but according to your offer, there must be a threat to public order. And on the other hand, if there are currently up to 300 fine units or arrests, for some reason you propose such a structure that there is a financial penalty, no definition of what, and a maximum one-year prison tower. Here's my question. What does this mean: if I, my benchmate or colleagues Mart and Martin Helmet are to be killed, if it is done somewhere at home or around the corner, it is one thing, but if, publicly, for example, Henn Põlluaas, my penguin, is to be killed somewhere in the Liberty Square, or I am killed, then it is a threat to public order? Why is there such a strange difference between the current paragraph and what you are proposing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U287	There is now a complete misunderstanding in the sense that if someone is killed, it is a crime against the person and it is a specific person... I can't find this section right now, but in any case, it's entirely in the Penal Code, and it applies to a completely different matter. There is no difference in the sense that [killing] still goes according to the paragraph under which the killing is carried out, whether it is done in public or at home. This is the second paragraph, it does not concern § 151. However, if a person is killed because he belongs to a group, and it has been stated or can be established that he was not killed because someone specifically hated him, but because his group affiliation is what lies ahead, for example, his skin color is very clearly identifiable, and it is the color of the skin that is the reason why he was assaulted, paragraph 58 (14) of [as proposed by us] considers that this is an aggravating circumstance. But as far as the penalties are concerned, I actually answered that question earlier. You can always change sentences, and you can also talk to the Ministry of Justice about the penalty rate by which things go. You can make suggestions, but this does not directly concern incitement to hatred.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U288	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U289	Thank you. I was moved to ask a little bit about the fact that in the meantime, we were talking about America. But I like another country even more than America, namely Sweden. I've been watching how the law has evolved in Sweden. In 1776 it was proposed for the first time that hate speech against another nation could be banned. It didn't make it to the law then, but it did in 1810. In 1810, 210 years ago! However, of course, this second part of this bill, the addition of aggravating circumstances, I am surprised that we have not done so for a long time. I honestly thought it was in the Penal Code. But Sweden was born in about 1962. It's been improved, and around 2001 he got the form he had here. My suggestion is that, since this 200-year leap seems too great for coalition politicians, maybe it would split the matter in such a way that the provision of aggravating circumstances would leave in place and other provisions, including incitement to hatred, would be taken into account in the future. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U290	Thank you. If the proposal is to move step by step so that things are more acceptable, then we can make several drafts, so that we put only aggravating circumstances together. But good legislative practice says that everything that concerns the same subject makes sense to put together so that there are as few amendments to the law as possible, because in the end no one can orient themselves. However, the reference to Sweden and other countries, indeed, there have been [the provisions] from before. Article 12 of our Constitution, and I still refer to the Constitution, also says the same: it is prohibited and punishable by law to incite hatred, violence and discrimination between different levels of society. This [the provision] does not say that there should be a threat to life and health, but that it says that it must be prohibited to incite hatred and violence in essence. In fact, the current wording of our Penal Code narrows down what the Constitution has said. So we can rely on our constitution, but you can also make an amendment and then we can discuss it, provided that this draft is not voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U291	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U292	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Here today has been repeated as a surprise that the Reform Party has tabled such a draft, as the statements of many politicians or members of the Reform Party could seem to qualify as a crime of incitement to hatred. It is surprising to me that we are dealing with or should only be dealing with laws that are suitable for ourselves or in any way world-viewed. I absolutely agree that if members of the Social Democratic Party, Reform Party or any other party, or any other Estonian citizen, have called for violence and incited hatred, [their actions] will fall under this law. After all, we are all equal before the law, and we make laws that apply to everyone. Given that our duty is independent and can shape the case law itself and make decisions that are in the spirit of the Constitution, in such a situation, do you see the concern in this Chamber that the law will be implemented in a world-view manner, any basis? Or could we trust the independence of the court and proceed with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U293	Thank you. I do believe in the independence of Estonian courts. We actually have very good case law and judges at all levels. In that sense, I am not concerned either. And I agree that, of course, there can be no way that a bill has now been drawn up that somehow misses the members of the Reform Party. No, I'm not. We are a part of society, as are the members of the EKRE and as are the members of the Social Democrats. If these are the social rules that we have agreed on, how we behave, they will, of course, apply equally to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U294	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U295	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have this question: what was the breaking point for you in society or in Estonia when you came to realize that you have to come before Parliament with this draft that is important for you? I understand that, in the past, the justice ministers of the Reform Party have rather been on the side of freedom of expression. But now you have come to realize that people who, in some form, feel that they belong to a group can go to court if they think that someone has expressed themselves improperly, and that it can be understood as a prison sentence. How did you come to such an understanding? What were the motives?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U296	Thank you. One of the motives was surely that we see such growing hostility. And, in fact, there is also concern about the future referendum, which will overheat hostility towards a particular social group with a different sexual orientation. I'm afraid you can see it in different sources. And once again, by looking at history or the practice of other countries, it will have serious consequences sooner or later. If I think back in time, then perhaps this [draft] really ended up in the exact same time [as the subject of the referendum] and we decided to bring it to the Riigikogu at last. Indeed, the growing hostility in society is a cause for concern because one thing leads to another and may have serious consequences. The second move was certainly that indeed, the European Commission indicated that, listen, Estonia has not adopted it. Everywhere else has been taken, but Estonia has not. We also looked into how this procedure has been conducted. It turns out that Estonia has promised that we will make such improvements to our own laws as in other European countries, but this has not been done. The answers that Estonia has given to Europe have also been 'in two ways understood'. When we talk about the European Framework Decision, it is very narrow in itself. In my first hearing, I thought the same way you thought that freedom of expression was being restricted. I myself have participated in these debates in the European Parliament to limit the universal hate speech, and I have not supported it. That is because there are all the risks that have been highlighted by the people of your group. But this particular change of ours concerns a very narrow area, a call for violence. It should not be that we wait until someone specifically gets hurt, but we take the tensions in society down by agreeing to listen, it is not acceptable, even if there is no specific victim.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U297	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U298	Thank you. There is another reason, apart from what Riina Sikkut said, why we should not go into the discussion of politicians' quotations depending on their outlook. When these quotes come from a line on the door, they are never honest, they do not correspond to the words, context or tone of the speaker, and they are distorted. This is demonstrated by this last example alone, as if Tarand were calling for citizens to be killed by nationalists. But these other examples were actually similar, absurd. Let's not make the remote look like they need to be evaluated. But my question is, how does this draft fit into the European context? We have heard that Romania and we do not have such a paragraph in sufficient detail. But how would he be harshly compared to other European countries? Have you been able to do this kind of analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U299	How can you judge this strength? In many countries it seems to be formulated more strongly. For example, the Hungarian Penal Code contains a list of symbols that cannot be distributed, publicly used or displayed. This goes further than calling for violence [prohibition]. Our proposal is much narrower. Let me give you a few more examples. In Italy, incitement to, and the commission of, hate acts, as well as violent provocation, participation in or support in a group aimed at racist or otherwise hate and discrimination, are punishable by four years imprisonment. These things are also crimes, and they are punished quite harshly. But, yeah, I think the assessment of strength is actually subjective. There are different settings. For example, Switzerland: public discrimination, incitement to hatred, promotion of depreciating or black ideology and spreading hateful propaganda through demeaning insults, including the justification of a group crime, and through discrimination against a person or group on grounds of race or ethnicity, three years in prison. But I guess the strength is up to everyone. The wordings are different.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U300	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U301	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Quick comment. A lot has been said here about the Constitution and the term "public order" in our draft, and I also heard that the Government of the Republic has found that moral issues cannot be included in the law. I am simply saying for the verbatim, but also for others, that § 45 of this famous constitution, which states that freedom of expression is protected in Estonia, the second sentence which was not read out, says: "This right may be restricted by law to protect public order, morality [or morals], the rights and freedoms of other people, health, honour and good name. " The Constitution expressly states that moral issues can be dealt with freely by law in this context. But the question is also somewhat related to the precedent. It was said here that we do not have any examples in Estonia that hostilities or this kind of exhilaration have led to acts. Bronze night, we remember all this long-term exotive work by outside agents and local agents, which resulted in mass defamation. Everyone was acquitted after the trial. If that law had been in force at that time, would there have been a greater hope of putting those extortioners in prison?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U302	Yes, thank you! That is a very good question, because indeed, this situation would have exactly come under this provision. I think that no one is arguing at the moment that there was not only a threat to public order, but that public order was also very badly injured during the Bronze Night. This paragraph would have, in my opinion, given the opportunity to bring about the consequence that the perpetrators would be found guilty. I see I have a court case here, it's a county court case, but it refers to bronze night. But that doesn't fit in this case, because there were simply derogatory expressions here, and there was no threat to life or property. That wasn't exactly it. But this [your] example was very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U303	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U304	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You keep emphasising the word 'violence', but there is still a very important side in the law [also enmity]: 'for the action with which the public has been called for hatred or violence'. I had a question that there have been a lot of stories where someone is accused of something and the press is talking about it, but at one point in court, it turns out that there was no truth to it. But in 20 or 30 years, it's coming out of a newspaper article somewhere that this person did and did, even though he's clearly won every instance. Is there any way this bill regulates this side? I didn't count it out. These examples can also be found in this Chamber, how I think someone is simply accused, even though he has not been convicted and cannot be convicted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U305	Thank you. Absolutely. We have a presumption of innocence, but unfortunately, it is often not followed. The presumption of innocence states that no one must be held guilty until a conviction has been handed down. But even after an acquittal verdict has been made, people are still considered guilty. What's the weapon against it? It is generally said that the weapon is that, as soon as the first such claims are made, [the applicants of such claims] should be brought to court and said to reject the false plea. In short, in order to protect your honor, you should go to court immediately, otherwise things will live their lives and it will be very difficult to refer to it later. Once I read the life story of Singapore's longtime prime minister Lee Kuan Yew, in which he himself says that if someone called him a corrupt or whatever, he'd sue for all these things. They said, "Hey, nobody's gonna believe why you're arguing with them anyway." He said no, these things need to be cut right away because they're going to live their lives. And I've seen that this is probably the right suggestion, these things need to be cut right away. But it does not concern this bill, but it concerns the fact that you can go to civil justice for the sake of your dishonor and demand compensation for damage and rejection of incorrect data. That right exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U306	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U307	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! What you just said, you have to cut things right through, sounds pretty appalling. But you've mentioned or claimed on a few occasions that the popular questioning in defining the definition of marriage inspires violence. Please tell me what kind of research you're saying. Where can you read these studies? You can't say that on the basis of the fact that you just feel that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U308	You yourself, of course, are a very well-known reference to research. First of all, I'm saying that cutting it means you're cutting it. I wonder how you want to interpret everything so directly. However, as regards the campaign relating to the referendum, the concern is that there is one particular group of society that is outnumbered and who is being provoked into hatred. You yourself, and the person behind you, said that [it is] gay propaganda and that homosexuals [do] it, the second and the third. They are highlighted because of their sexual orientation. In short, I do not know if there is direct incitement to hatred, but in any case this first phase begins quietly, that you first identify this group of society, right, then you enter negativity and intolerance towards them, and then the next levels can come from there. It's just the hostility they're trying to heat up, it's being seen right now. That's why I've given it as an example.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U309	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U310	Actually, I don't have any more questions, I'm clear. But I was thinking of helping with a small reply to give Priit Sibula and Anti Polish forest a little background. Priit asked how strong our law would be under this proposal compared to the laws of other European countries. Actually, it doesn't matter. Ultimately, compliance with the European Convention is important, as is the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights. I can again give an example of Sweden, where the laws are actually stronger than the European Convention and the case law of the European Court of Justice. As a result, the Swedish Supreme Court has quite often, with reference to European law in particular, made new decisions in cases where a lower court has been convicted and released from human responsibility. For example, the European Convention strongly protects freedom of religion. This is an example of someone asking that some religious groups do such and such propaganda. Unfortunately, in Europe, freedom of religion is seen as the number one freedom.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U311	Thanks for the comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U312	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U313	Thank you. I assumed that the Reform Party in the Group had discussed the question to which Randpere replied or helped to answer. And that's what Jürgen Ligi asked, if I remember correctly, not me. I assumed that this subject had been negotiated, but it's a good thing that some things get clearer here in the barn. I have a question, too. Even when we have the best will, justice often happens without knowing how to predict everything. I have a question: are you absolutely convinced that in the future, if this bill were to become a law, there will be no possibility of suing any journalist on this basis, or that we will not restrict freedom of the press or the expression of journalists, so that they will too choose their words in order not to fall under this section? And the second point is that I do not think that we need to adopt this law just because it is written in Europe. If our judicial practice is such that this problem does not exist in our society, then we will probably be able to make it clear in Europe as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U314	First of all, about this comment. Look, we had this conversation over and over, but you know that Jürgen was on social media to respond to your comments at the same time. It was a joke! But don't worry about us. As far as journalists are concerned, I cannot say that it does not concern any journalists. When a journalist calls for violence, incites hatred on these grounds, he is as citizen as any other citizen. There is no separate protection for journalists. But if you mean that our media landscape is quite critical of the government, the same way about the opposition for a few weeks, one party gets more hit, the other party gets more hit, etc., some things are presented in a very critical key, then I really don't see any danger in this. This is because it does not go under incitement to violence when a person speaks, writes, comments, or criticizes. I don't think it's going to be [under this section].
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U315	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U316	Thank you. I'll come back to Bronze Night. As we know at that time, there was a very strong campaign of hatred in the Estonian press. I hope this goes under this bill as well. Let me quote a little bit. For example, the editorial of Postimees wrote: "In Pruukis, however, the state of Estonia has a little manhood to show, the Russian retired officers have a little instigation, and the unknown has shown its true face in Tõnismäe. [---] Not a soldier or any other civilized character, but the most real Russian thug. " Mr. Andrus Kivirähk said in the Eesti Päevaleht: "At last, you could see with your naked eye, who we still live here in Estonia from day to day. What kind of mind is represented by people who drive alongside us on a tram and shop with us. [---] And yet they're organizing a clean crystal night right there so that Hitler and SA Brown Shirts Chief of Staff Röhm could be proud of them. " Mihkel Mutt, in turn, said that it would have been very easy, in fact, to distinguish between a criminal and an honest person, the criminals spoke Russian, honest people spoke Estonian, [and asked] how the police arrested Estonian. I hope that when you talk about the Bronze Night, you have noticed that all these statements go under this bill, and not what my colleague referred to, that when people organise an anti-government demonstration that goes a little out of hand, these people should be put in prison because they happen to be Russian.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U317	Yes, I do not think that there is a right to incite hatred or incite violence on the grounds of nationality. But the fact is, the bronze night was actually broken into stores and the property was stolen. Of course, that time was [emotional], emotions were very strong in relation to everything that happened, and the unrest was in itself completely real. But I think that incitement to violence from either side [must not be allowed]. [Can not be allowed] it is the radicalisation of persons by being called upon to commit violence. If the legitimate right of a state to move a monument leads to a call for violence, then it should be prohibited, and vice versa, to call for violence by referring to or heating against a particular nation. I think it works both ways.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U318	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. I now ask Tarmo Kruusimäe, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to be the second rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U319	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good guardians, organizers, guards and supervisors of the Republic! Previously, I have always used one beautiful Estonian word for "vardens," but it could always be interpreted differently. Now it's easy with these things. Here comes the protocol. On Tuesday 8 December 2020, the Committee on Legal Affairs met at 14 p.m. The manager was Jaanus Karilaid, the reporter Gretchen-Annette Mägi. The members of the committee, Kalle Grünthal, who was Kert Kingo's alternate, Marek Jürgenson, Toomas Kivimägi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Paul Puustusmaa, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast, took part. You'd probably like to hear this introduction to the protocol, which some say we can read for ourselves. What is very important, however, is that it is difficult for people who are watching us from YouTube at this time or later. We had the chairman or wife of the Reform Party, Kaja Kallas, who introduced legislation to us, such as § 12 of the Constitution. Then came these various [laws] more, came and came and came, and also came possible examples. And then, when he had been introduced for quite some time, the so-called 'questions-answers' round began. First of all, the chairman of the committee asked how, in the light of this draft, the statement made by Toomas Hendrik Ilves, who holds the title of President for life, should be interpreted in relation to the government of the Republic of Estonia: in the joint media, the President said that Estonia was led by the Taliban government. Jaanus Karilaid said that the president took advantage of his authority in society and certainly caused angry reactions in society with what he said. The rapporteur replied that this case was not subject to this draft, although President Toomas Hendrik Ilves was above the standards of courtesy. In the case of insults, the right to apply to a civil court and demand the restoration of a good name, but it was not an incitement to violence or to hatred against a group of society, as stated in § 12 of the Constitution. Raivo Time was optimized and Kaja Kallas, in turn, Oponized, we were there for quite a while. A good colleague, Kalle Grünthal, said that this is a rather good question that needs to be branded, that in this sitting, the emphasis has been placed on § 12 of the Constitution, which states that everyone is equal before the law. However, there is also § 41 in the Constitution, which states that everyone has the right to remain true to his or her opinions and beliefs. And there is also § 45, which states that everyone has the right to freely distribute ideas, opinions, beliefs and other information in word, print, picture or any other way. Kalle Grünthal said that the focus should not only be on violence in appeals, as ideas and opinions can be in a different form. He said that § 2 of the Penal Code lays down the grounds for punishment. Punishment for an act corresponding to an offence which is unlawful and committed by a person. In order for a person to be punished, all the above circumstances should be answered in the affirmative. He found that the draft sets standards, but leaves the person with a lack of clarity about the way he behaves. In criminal proceedings, unlike civil proceedings, the principle that what is prohibited is prohibited. Where will the boundaries run that will guide the assessment of the nature of the crime, what are the most important aspects and will expert assessments be carried out? The rapporteur replied that the effect was, according to the draft, a threat to public policy. (As we have heard today, the "enmity" and the "public order" have gone through parallel like this.) Kaja Kallas said that the line between freedom of expression and crime goes where it does not reveal its views or beliefs (even angryly and without punishment) but is publicly called upon to hate a group of society and call for violence. As a result, there is a threat to public order. Fortunately, there are also the views of the European Court of Human Rights of the various decisions from which this border is drawn very clearly. The interpretation of what is prohibited or not in the sections comes in many respects from the case law of the European Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights. Kaja Kallas takes the view that proceedings are not initiated under § 151 of the Penal Code if, for example, a representative of a sexual minority feels that there is a threat to his life. Kaja Kallas considers that this paragraph is empty in this respect because the consequence has not arrived and therefore no proceedings will be initiated. They were still exposed. I myself asked a question which may have been a little confused in the protocol, but I will read it out as I have officially said and said. What can be measured by when society is tolerant and at what point is society intolerant? Is the bill aimed at bringing more people to justice? The rapporteur replied that the purpose of the draft was not to prosecute more people, but to ensure the safety of society. The aim is that the hatred of a social group should not be unpunishable. Anger speech increases society's uncertainty and insecurity. Anger speech can lead to crimes. The draft is based on the Constitution. As far as he is aware, information is not collected in Estonia as to whether the crime was committed in a racist or other dimension. No such statistics are known to exist in Estonia. Paul Puustusmaa said that the dispositive norms and the principle of disposition dominate civil law allows the law to be interpreted quite widely. The bill also seeks to bring the principle of disposition into criminal law. In criminal law, there is a zeroum crime sine lege (no crime, no punishment) principle according to which a criminal offence which is not as precisely defined as possible should not be recorded in the Penal Code. He said that he agreed with the Minister for Justice that the draft would make the situation abstract and introduce a broad general concept. The problem is also that according to the current law, incitement to hatred must concern the life, health or property of a person, but the bill also introduces public order as a paradigm change. With Toomas Kivimägi, we had such a good discussion when we went to vote, where I wanted to say that with a heavy heart I am voting as I am voting, but that is not what we are currently seeing here [the protocol]. Mr Urve asked what would be a negative scenario if a legislative amendment were to be made in accordance with the draft and what would be a negative scenario if no amendment were to be made. Raivo Time replied that the result would only be positive if there was no amendment to the law. I have also had such things recorded that I look forward to the definitions of "violence," "avoidance," "enemy of hatred" and "bloody revenge." The Commission took some decisions. Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 15 December 2020 (consensus: Marek Jürgenson, Jaanus Karilaid, Kalle Grünthal, Toomas Kivimägi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Paul Puustusmaa, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomas). Secondly, propose that the draft be rejected (by 5: Marek Jürgenson, Jaanus Karilaid, Kalle Grünthal, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Paul Puustusmaa; against 3: Toomas Kivimägi, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomas). Thirdly, to appoint Tarmo Kruusimäe (by 6: Marek Jürgenson, Jaanus Karilaid, Kalle Grünthal, Toomas Kivimägi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Vilja Toomast, there was no one against Paul Puustusmaa and Urve Tiidus). I know that I cannot interpret the content, but I think that Estonian society is mature enough today to discuss these matters. It would be great if we didn't have this corona and we didn't have to deal with it here right now, and we would still get to the questions we talked about. Today we only asked the rapporteur, but I am sure that every political group and every member of each political group has their own approach and their own understanding. As long as we can't hold these discussions, so long as we're just making assessments. That was the Commission's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U320	Thank you very much. Questions. Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U321	Thank you. Dear waitress, When I listened to the questions asked in this Chamber, I had the impression that very many of the questioners did not understand the idea of this draft. At times, even the feeling that some of them had not even read the bill. I have no doubt that you have read this bill, but my question to you is about the Commission's work. As a Member of the Commission, how did it seem to you that the majority of the members of the Commission understood the meaning, meaning and purpose of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U322	Legally correct now, it was expressed as a result of a vote in which they passed on their group's position on this draft. As far as personal opinion is concerned, I have to say that this conversation took place after the meeting was over. Those were the keywords "hurried" and "raw" and the incentive, as such, was unclear as to why it had to be done in this form. Because, as we have heard, the waitress here said, many countries have gone down the road that the symbols of criminal regimes are also banned, and perhaps this is not seen here at this point. A number of circumstances were quite confusing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U323	Thank you very much. No further questions. It is possible to open negotiations, the negotiations can be held by representatives of the political groups. Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U324	President-in-Office of the Council. Colleagues! Hell's road is paved with good intentions. The road to hell is also attracted to various decoys. And here today, we heard the way in hell paved the way with good intentions and decoy. There must have been a great deal of anger in our society. Our society has become increasingly enmityd. In our society, there are groups that are concerned about their security. And then we have a witch witch that we're gonna take a moment with, and it's called hate speech law, and all these worries disappear. I have to admit that even in this Chamber, where a lot of stupidity, politically biased, motivated talk is spoken out of contradictions, one question is answered in the same way and another question is answered, and when you put it together, there is often such a conflicting, so politically motivated and sometimes even false talk coming out of it today. Of course, the daily policy of the marriage referendum had to divide and threaten a certain minority. Sorry, there is nothing in a referendum or a referendum that would endanger anyone. There is one very simple question: yes or no. What threatens, who threatens, is who tries to put it in front of the chariot of incitement to political hatred. I must admit that throughout this visible political career that I have had, let's say, over the last ten years, I personally have always felt that I have been the object of constant hate speech, hate speech, insults, incorrect accusations, just like the representative of the endangered species. And that's what's in this room. I watched and listened partly in the hall, partly in the group's room, partly in the office, and partly in the way this discussion was held. I'd say it was very polite. And then I remembered when I stood here two times standing here distrusting, with what anger, hatred, insults and maliciousness I was asked questions. I can't tell if it was hate speech or if it was hate speech or whatever it was, but anyway, the picture was very different from what was here right now. There were no such gruesome, raving, angry questions. Yeah, there were ironic questions, there were blaming questions, but in general there were quite a variety of questions. It really makes a difference between what's on this side of the hall and what's at another place in the hall. What is accused of certain political positions, of certain positions, in reality is absolutely not true. And what about this particular draft? On this particular draft, we can say that it is an absolutely unsuitable draft. This bill is a bill to muzzle society. I'd like more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U325	An extra three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U326	This bill is a draft for the introduction of ideological censorship. This bill creates an atmosphere in society where people do not dare to express themselves freely. This draft contradicts the Constitution of our Republic, the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and very many other international instruments, all of which declare that there is freedom of opinion in a democratic society. There's no censorship. The Estonian Constitution is also clear: there is no censorship. This draft is essentially a draft to introduce censorship. We can give here an excellent example of another draft that was pushed through in 2014. It's a cohabitation act. Even then it was said that, oh-oh-oh, sweethearts, there is no need to be afraid at all. We're not gonna come with any gay marriages, we're not gonna come with some gay adoption issue. We just want these couples to feel legally equal. But now, just a few days ago or when we discussed here, the attacks were very clearly motivated precisely by this: the referendum takes the right away from them and from them and from them. But they've never been granted that right! Nobody's taking anything from them, they haven't even been given anything. Let me give this example simply from the point of view that what is being said here is wrong. That's not true. We know this in practice of the Cohabitation Act, but we also know what has happened in Western societies. And I would remind you of my dear mother, who has gone to the other side. Once when I was a boy, I was in some kind of trouble, and as an excuse, I said, "But others did too! " And she said: " Others tell you to put your head in the oven, and you do? " The same is true of this bill: others did. See, that's where the state did it in America! You see, in Europe this country did! But do we have to let ourselves be taken away from ourselves because others did? This draft is a European-based draft. Under no circumstances does our group support the draft legalisation of the censorship of hate speech. We're against it as long as we can resist anything. And I would also advise those who have submitted this draft to oppose it, because it is boomerang. It's gonna hit you in the head, and it's gonna hit you in the head, because no government is gonna be forever. No government is eternal! However, all governments are able to take advantage of draft laws that give them the opportunity to gain more power and use that power to tame their political and ideological opponents. Think about it! I'm not threatening you. I'm not threatening you, I'm just saying, that's a common sense. Don't! Don't, because at one point it will be a very painful test for our entire society. And you have to stick others in the oven, either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U327	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U328	I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U329	Eight minutes in total, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U330	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Since so much has been asked and answered about these personal examples here today, I first declare that Mart Helme's talk about the way to hell and the statement that this bill is going to fly hard on my head does not make me feel threatened. And at the same time, I admit that I really am worried. If in this case Mart Helme feels that he has been unjustly subject to insults and accusations, that hatred and maliciousness have been aroused against him, then I have the feeling that this bill would be very helpful to him in putting justice in the house. But time changes, things change, technology evolves. Take cybercrime, for example. We cannot say that wait-wait, we have the freedom to conduct a business, do what you want on the Internet, take money from others or engage in fraud. No! It is clear that not only can someone come to my home and take away the value of money, or break into a bank and steal money from that closet, but crimes can also be committed in the cyber world. That is why we need to adapt our legal space. We cannot accept that people do not have to take responsibility for their behaviour or their actions in the cyber world. Another example is the working environment. If one day the boss may have yelled at an employee, maybe the whip was used, all kinds of things, but it's no longer acceptable. Now we're talking about psychosocial occupational risk factors. The fact that he is not allowed to work is your superior or subordinate, must not be put in an unpleasant situation. There must still be a motivation for working, such joy and collegiality. Similarly, there must be a word, an opinion [right of publication]. This opinion can also be dissatisfied or malicious. There has been a change in the dissemination of [my opinion]. You don't have to look for the printing press with a match light anymore. You can have the printing press circled around in every language without postings and videos. This is still a new situation and we must respond to it. The question is whether this is going to happen proactively or too soon. Given this material that is already available online and what makes these circles around the world, I don't think we are in any way runners or too early reacters. Rather, our debate on this will be late. A sense of security in society is essential so that all people can make the right choices for themselves. Whether it concerns your journey home from work, which website you open, or whether you express your opinion on politics or on another subject on the Internet. Violence, mental violence, physical violence as well as threats of violence, clearly destroys the sense of social security. The fact that people are angry is absolutely [natural]! This has happened before, it will continue to happen. We don't have to say no. But we cannot accept that it is the norm to incite anger and violence. We must see this as an exceptional situation, which, if necessary, needs to be addressed. Criminologist Jüri Saar, Professor emeritus at the University of Tartu, has explained very thoroughly the social psychological processes that take place. I quote Jüri Saart: "There are corresponding empirical studies of this, which show directly how much better and safer people's lives are in societies where aggression (also incentives for aggression) is not exposed. Public hate speech activates groups of people who would not be active without this kind of stimulus." It is interesting how he analyses Estonia's slaughter statistics. Intentional killings are very serious crimes. Their number has decreased in Estonia since the early 1990s. We've come to the point that we haven't been talking about three-digit numbers in a long time. During the first five months of this year, however, the number of intentional killings has increased more than twice. There were 24 of them that year instead of 11 last year. Jüri Saar itself suggests that one of the reasons for the increase in the number of intentional killings of the current change can be the changed social climate and political discussion style, in addition to the general uncertainty. That's one opinion, one hypothesis. But for us, it should be a warning sign because our statements reach the media, reach a wider circle than that of many other people. We must feel responsible for our word, for what the foundation we create in society is. We need to sense our responsibility for creating a sense of social security, as well as the risk that we can break or reduce it. We're talking about freedom of speech, censorship isn't relevant here. We are talking directly about calling for violence. I can't imagine how many situations in your life you're actually expressing a desire for someone's violent death. I can't even imagine what kind of situation this could be, but maybe these things happen, people have different temperaments. But it certainly cannot be a norm, a normal practice, something that we must accept without arguing and which we must fight for in particular. Rather, it is a sign of danger and we must also allow mechanisms to allow those who, in the case of incitement to violence, retain the role of the victim against whom violence is called to stand up for their rights. If our legal space does not allow the victim to stand up for his or her rights now, then it is our responsibility to make such changes that allow the victims to stand up for their rights or to receive compensation. For me, it was actually very positive that all the concrete examples that were presented in this debate were from representatives of all kinds of worldviews. We're not talking about a world-view bill here. We are talking about a safer and non-violent society and that everyone is equal before the law. So this is not a targeted draft, as the previous speaker referred to. I conclude by saying that today there were very good, meaningful questions and even better, meaningful answers. There were very many examples of both Estonian practice and the experience of other countries. I wish we could continue to deal with this bill. This will allow us to talk things out ourselves, and I think it will be of benefit to society at large. Today's good debate can undoubtedly further build a secure society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U331	Thank you. Next, I'd like a speech chair here at Toomas Kivimägi.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U332	I'm asking for more time now. I'm afraid I can't do it in five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U333	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U334	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Special respect for the rapporteur for a very meaningful and thorough presentation and for the answers in substance. At the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, my colleague, Tarmo Kruusimäe, asked whether the aim of the draft was to bring more people to justice. This question was answered by Kaja Kallas at the Commission's meeting, and so I also assure you that the purpose of this draft is not to bring more people to justice. The purpose of this draft is to create a sense of security for all groups of society who are present in Estonia, so that they do not fall under hostile, racist, national or gender attacks. Moreover, this bill also has a very important positive message for international relations and Estonia's reputation, so that Estonia continues to be an open state. Openness is our opportunity and our vital need. When asked about the reasons why this bill has suddenly arisen, there are a number of legal arguments here, starting with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, to which I am referring immediately, but also the European Union's monitoring procedure. Let's talk straight and straight. I know one party doesn't agree with that. But if there was a so-called hate index, if someone measured the hate index, as measured by the ratings of political parties, ladies and gentlemen, what do you think this hate index has done over the last three or four years? Is this the country we want to move to? And indeed, many examples of history have already been given here. We do not have to look back decades; we can also look back ten years, or a little further or closer, if such apparent freedom of expression has resulted in very tragic consequences. Do we also have to wait in Estonia for these tragic consequences before we proactively try to regulate the situation that is today? I will also say to Mart Helme at once that the Reform Party is not afraid to rule and the Reform Party is not afraid to take responsibility for this law. We're not worried about that in the slightest. If it concerns any reform party, of course it is also responsible under this law. We're not worried about that, but some parties are worried about something. As I suggested, there is also a very strong legal aspect here. § 12 of the Constitution states that everyone is equal before the law and that the incitement of national, racial, religious or political hatred, violence and discrimination is prohibited and punishable by law. And now let's take this correlated section, many times referred to in § 151 of the Penal Code, which speaks of incitement to hatred. By the way, it is also very important to say that it looks like we are inventing something completely new. The Code of Penalty contains 'inciting hatred', but its definition does not correspond to the Constitution, nor does it comply with the framework agreement of the European Union. We want to supplement this somewhat. The so-called prison tower was spoken of here. § 151 (2) also provides for deprivation of liberty. Yes, I admit that, according to our bill, deprivation of liberty is, according to the first paragraph, one option next to a fine. But come on, if this is now a concern, then it is the suggestions for improvement that will alleviate this possible sanction in the first paragraph. This is certainly not a very fundamental issue for us. If the majority in this hall thinks that there is too much imprisonment next to the first paragraph of the fine, and it could be the arrest, as it is today according to the first paragraph, then I think that is certainly not the problem. However, the problem is that § 151 speaks of liability only if it poses a risk to the life, health or property of a person. However, I recall what the Constitution says. The Constitution speaks of incitement to hatred, violence and discrimination. He doesn't say anything about it being directed specifically against one person. That's what we're not covered by the Penal Code today. And this is the same thing that the European Union is accusing us of, which is why the supervisory procedure against Estonia has been initiated. According to the Penal Code, if there is no specific person but an attack on a group of persons, then there will be no liability or punishment. There was a reference to bronze night, but I also agree with Oudek's second comment he made. I think that this draft could also cover, in certain extreme cases, the second example that you highlighted in your speech. Now, as far as terms are concerned, I admit, for example, that if it is in parentheses that it is a fight against hate crimes, I would even venture to say that Estonian is a little richer than English. If we are normally concerned that we will not find proper Estonian equivalents for English terms, I admit that 'hate speech' is too narrow an interpretation of this draft. Rather, it would be more precise that it is a draft to combat hate crimes. Maybe the Hate Crime, as Mr. Lotman referred to. We're still talking about it, we're not talking about hate speech. I don't want to overexpress it, but I'm sorry, it's okay to hate someone after this bill has been approved. I do not want to over-emphasise this, I do not want to promote it. We are not prohibiting this, we are not prohibiting personal freedom from hating anyone, we are not prohibiting politicians from saying badly about their competitor. I do not want it to be done, but this law does not prohibit it and no sanctions or punishment will follow. Let us distinguish between anger and hatred. Kaja Kallas referred to Mr Rait Marus, who, among other things, has also been a judge of the European Court of Human Rights and knows, I think, better than, say politely, the overwhelming majority of us, how this concept is furnished in the European Union's judicial area. And, indeed, we are talking about hostilities. I'm glad Helir-Valdor Seeder nodded on it. He likes this bill, although he may still be tempted to vote the other way around. But let us hope, as it has been said, that it is never too late for repentance. The last couple of lines I would like to say to Mr Kalle Grünthal, who referred to § 45 of the Constitution at the hearing of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Indeed, everyone has the right to freely distribute ideas, opinions, beliefs and other information in word, print, picture, or any other way. But which was also pointed out by Eerik-Niles Kross: Mr Grünthal, you failed to read the second paragraph of the same section. It says: "This right may be restricted by law to protect public order, morality, the rights and freedoms of others, health, honor, and good name. " Perhaps this is not an absolute or unlimited right. I'm quoting the Constitution, that's all. That is not an absolute right. Ladies and gentlemen, do not be hostile, support the rejection of this draft. Indeed, this is not the final truth that has been written here. Certainly, the Reform Party Group is open to amendments and to real changes to this draft. Let us also consider that the supervision procedure for Estonia is ongoing, and I think that this might be a pretty good argument, if we are already getting a fine, to say that the corresponding draft is in the Riigikogu proceedings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U335	Thank you. Since Mart Helme's name was mentioned in the report, you have the right to reply. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U336	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. First of all, to the representative of the Social Democratic Party: as former Minister of the Interior, I can assure you that the PBA has a very good statistical overview, which is the cause of the murders that have been committed in the context of the murders and whether they are also involved in so-called hate crimes. I can assure you it isn't. There's nothing to do with hate crimes. And to the representative of the Reform Party, I can say that we know that they are not afraid of government responsibility, but this bill reaffirms that this party must not be allowed into government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U337	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal was also mentioned. You are also entitled to reply. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U338	Thank you. I would like to make it clear that, while the previous speaker made a comment on the fact that I have not read the text of § 45 to the end, the drafters have not read the text to the end of § 12 of the Constitution: any incitement to national, racial, religious or political hatred, etc., is also prohibited and punishable by law. Perhaps, in fact, we already have standards on what they are trying to redefine now. It is absolutely right that both Mart Helme and my claim that this is simply a muzzle of the population.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U339	Thank you. Now I'm gonna ask Mikhail Lotman to speak here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U340	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. First of all, I apologise to the Riigikogu that my speech may be qualified as hate speech or hate speech, and I fear that neither side will be satisfied with that. At the same time, I would like to congratulate the Riigikogu on the fact that most of us have already gone to a remote hearing, preparing for tomorrow. Now I want to talk about the matter. The day before yesterday, we spent a great deal of time dealing with a completely empty problem which, in my opinion, damages the reputation of the Riigikogu. Here I agree with our opposition that it does not need to be dealt with at all, and it does not really need to be dealt with now that we have much more complex, much more pressing problems. But what did our respectable Reform Party now say? By the fact that now is the best time to muzzle people, precisely during this pandemic. Although it has been said that this bill was filed seven weeks ago, there was also a pandemic seven weeks ago. Today we are hearing some arguments that it is not at all anger or hatred, we are not restricting opinions, only direct incitement to hatred is forbidden, and the same referendum is given as an example. They said, "What does it have to do with hatred?" Well, frankly, it's not, but some people think it has something to do with homopropaganda, and homopropaganda can go on. So it's a multiple move to finally end up with animosity. I am not a proponent of this referendum, but there is no sign of incitement to hatred. What's bothering me here? Word games. One thing is hate speech, the other is hate speech. This is an excellent example of how Estonian language is flexible and diverse. But if we translate them into English, they'll both be hate speech. In all international documents and in the legislation that has now been translated into Estonian, we are talking about Hate speech, but not Enemy speech. Now I would like to come to what the fearsome consequences of this bill are. The aim is probably to fight against minority rights, for example, against the problems presented by the LGBT Association or the Estonian Human Rights Centre. I am particularly sad about the Estonian Human Rights Centre, because during the Soviet period I too fought for human rights, and then there was a fundamental struggle for freedom of expression. But the Estonian Human Rights Centre mainly fights for the restriction of freedom of expression. We can discuss here whether the restriction of the right to speak is a restriction of the right to speak or not whether hate speech or hate speech is a speech or not. These are semantic aspects that are very dangerous. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U341	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U342	Here we had examples of the adoption of a law in all progressive countries. Yes, it is. A lot of people. But now I want to paraphrase the old people's wisdom that not everything is gold from the West. And it's definitely not gold. We see the negative consequences in many European countries. No, I'm not talking about the Islamic threat, etc. I am talking about a very important restriction of freedom of expression in leading democracies in Europe, such as England, where it is like people's masturbation or attack groups, who control people's speech and report that there may be something out there that offends or hates someone, maybe there's a n-word word. And that's even the way it is at Cambridge University. But let's put Western democracies aside. Such a law has also been adopted in many of the most problematic countries. An example has already been given here: in Poland and Hungary, EKRE, take the example, there is this law. It is, and it works. In Poland, it is against religious freedom and discrimination against religious associations. Under this law, the singer Duda, who performed an enmity call, was convicted, but the enmity was that he said that the Bible was fictional. Adam Darski, who accused the Catholic Church of inquisition and other crimes, has also been convicted because it incites hatred against believers. Hungary is even better, there are double standards. Anti-government sanctions are imposed in accordance with this law, while members of the government and Parliament are very active in speeches that would certainly be subject to hate speech. This has also been pointed out by the UN Human Rights Committee and by many human rights organisations. But the main thing I want to say is Russia. That's where the law works very well. Last year alone, the prosecutor's office opened one and a half thousand proceedings, and most of them did not go to court. People were not accused of being racist, xenophobes, etc., but because they doubted Putin's effective rule. It's hate speech, it's hate speech, it's social hatred and hatred against our country and our patriots, and so on. Let's not pass a law that's a two-way street. This reminds me of the Russian anecdote: "Let's kick their asses! "'But what if they're for us? " "But for what do we do? " Those who are now adopting this law are convinced that they have nothing to be responsible for. However, when we look at social media, we see that hate speech has been accused of the [current] President, the previous President and many members of your party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U343	Thank you. There's no more calls. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 276 at first reading. I will also close the negotiations with this, and we will get to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 276 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U344	There are 50 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 39 against and no abstentions. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U345	The next draft we are dealing with is the first reading of the Bill 297 amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U346	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the preparation of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity for the first reading at its meeting on 3 and 8 December. Marek Uusküla and Lauri Lelumees from the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance also participated in the meeting. The draft provides greater flexibility for undertakings applying for an energy exemption authorisation and for undertakings authorised to opt for the length of the assessment period for qualifying for excise preferences. The current law provides an opportunity to assess electrointensity and the intensity of gas consumption on the basis of data for the last financial year ending. According to the draft, the company can freely choose the length of the assessment period from one to four consecutive marketing years. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Tuesday, which has now moved on Wednesday, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for amendments to 31 December at 13:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U347	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U348	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Aivar! Tell me in a simple speech what kind of problem we're going to solve with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U349	We know that there is a law in Estonia that gives benefits to energy-intensive companies. The condition for obtaining this benefit is that the reference period is compared to the previous year. For gas, the cost shall be 13% and for electricity 20%. And if this revenue decreases compared to last year, those companies that are actually big employers and taxpayers will simply lose this advantage. At the same time, it compares their ability to manage, i.e. profitability, so that if they are in a pre-insolvency situation, they would not receive this benefit. But right now, under the conditions of the corona virus, we're giving them the chance to choose themselves, one, two, three or four years from the previous period. Every year, they've had an increase in turnover. At the moment, most companies have the same turnover as in 2019 rather than 2018. In order not to create economic difficulties for them, this option has been given over a four-year period.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U350	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U351	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Please tell me how many companies this bill concerns!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U352	At the moment, it can concern nine companies benefiting from an electricity excise tax credit and four companies benefiting from a gas concession.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U353	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U354	Thank you. A colleague here asked half the question, but, Aivar, name three of the biggest companies to go down here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U355	I can tell you one big one, it's Estonian Cell...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U356	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U357	... who is one of the biggest employers and last year's best company.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U358	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U359	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I would also like to ask you about the two previous questions. What kind of money are we talking about? If the number of companies is known, what is about this loss of tax revenue as the effect of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U360	The draft does not have the effect of eliminating tax revenue because they have the right to benefit today. They may lose this advantage, but if they do not benefit from it, we may also miss out on taxes on labour. The budgetary implications of this draft are currently not taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U361	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U362	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, you mentioned very precisely who will win this draft. Is there any chance that these companies will be added after the adoption of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U363	Yeah, there's a chance. Two years ago, this bill we want to turn into a law. There are 24 companies operating in Estonia today that could theoretically ask for this excise benefit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U364	Thank you, good waitress. No more questions for you. The commission has proposed to close the first reading of draft 297. I will set the deadline for the amendments, including 31 December at 13:00. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U365	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Courts initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The rapporteur is Hanno Pevkur, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U366	Ladies and gentlemen, This is a very good bill. There are three brief provisions in this draft, which briefly refer to the holding of the General Assembly of Judges. At the moment, the law is one that says that the plenary session of the judges will meet every year on the second Friday of February. That's exactly what's been reported. In view of the extraordinary circumstances that we currently have, the Supreme Court has proposed that the full court of judges may also be conducted electronically. It is also suggested that this date should not be quite stated that it will be the second Friday of February. It could be more flexible. And thirdly, according to the law in force, the judicial authorities, such as the judicial examination committees and other elected bodies, are also bound by a fixed date. In order not to give rise to any difficulty in electing judges, this provision should also be adjusted to ensure that the powers of these bodies remain in force until new bodies have been selected. It makes perfect sense. For example, as long as the new government is in office, the government will take care of it. These three points are all that this bill wants to change. And given that the second Friday of February is approaching with a frightening speed, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of course, has a proposal to conclude the first reading today and to do the second and third reading as soon as possible. It will then be possible to send a message to the judges that this year's House of Judges could take place in May if, I hope, the situation on the health front is a little better. By the deadline for amendments, I think we left the ten days mentioned in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U367	Thank you. Siim Kiisler has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U368	Thank you. Good waitress! This bill also talks about voting online. The problem is, as we know, very broad. The Bar Association has similar problems up to the usual NGOs and housing associations. Do you have any information on whether they have an IT solution or whether they do? I am asking because it has been said that the state could also create such a solution as a whole. Is it moving forward or not moving?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U369	Thank you. We did not have this question directly to the Chairman of the Supreme Court when we discussed it in the committee. But as far as I understand, the House of Judges is capable of holding its vote in an electronic manner. They don't have secret votes. And if there is, they can propose an electronic solution for the election procedures. If I look at this explanatory statement, there is no special electoral procedure or election procedure, but this is an opportunity. I then assume that the Supreme Court will also create this possibility of electronic voting for itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U370	Thank you, good waitress. No more questions for you. The commission proposed that the first reading of draft 298 be terminated. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 13 December at 13:00. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U371	The next item is the third reading of Bill 231 of the Law amending the Code of Civil Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic (guaranteeing an action based on infringement of intellectual property rights). Approval of this requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. We have a chance to open negotiations. Representatives of the political groups will take the floor. But I don't think there's a wish for a word. Then we go to the final vote. In line with the proposal of the lead committee, we will hold a final vote on the draft 231. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic 231. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U372	There are 81 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U373	The next item is the third reading of Bill 195 of the Bankruptcy Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and amendments to other laws. This, too, requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu for admission. But before that, there is an opportunity to open negotiations if the representatives of the political groups have a wish. But there's no call request. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 195 on the draft. Can we go to the vote now? I am voting on the draft law on bankruptcy initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws 195. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U374	There are 79 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U375	Next item: Third reading of Bill 232 of the Law of Obligations Act Amendment initiated by the Government of the Republic. Let's open the negotiations. Call chair, please, Toomas Kivimägi.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U376	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief in two or three minutes. This is a step in the right direction, but this step is very short. However, if you read today's daily newspapers, it reveals such things that if the bill is approved, the tenant will have to start paying the owner's bank loan. It's pretty harsh, so it's worth thinking about whether or not to support this bill. But I think it's an obvious exaggeration. Obviously, no direct, or I will now use such a word as the "direct" obligation for tenants will not be additional. The purpose of this draft is to make rental relationships more flexible. I think it is a surprise for many that today's regulation has been in place for 20 years. So at the turn of the millennium, Parliament last regulated rental relationships. And I think there's been a lot of change in 20 years, and it's time to make the rental relationships more flexible. And indeed a step towards flexibility is being taken. But like I said, this step is actually very short. For example, the subject of the contractual penalty has been mentioned, and there are now going to be huge contractual penalties. Once again, I can say to my satisfaction that, in fact, contractual penalties are at issue for the first time in case of approval of this draft and are only allowed in the event of non-monetary breach. I stress: in the event of non-monetary breach. A simple example: if the rental agreement states that you should not smoke and if someone has smoked in this apartment, there is an opportunity to apply a contractual penalty. But that, of course, has to be in the lease agreement. What is more, I say that this fine is almost non-existent, because this bill sets a maximum penalty for contractual penalties and that is 10% of the monthly rent rate. It's a fine you can charge a month. Perhaps the same example in the case of smoking: EUR 300 is a month's rent if someone has smoked, then if this bill is approved, there is an opportunity to ask for a contractual penalty of EUR 30 per month. Whether it covers real costs or not, at least it's a start. If there is really concern that this bill is very prone to owners, I began reading very carefully today the section of the Law of Obligations Act concerning rental relationships. And how many times did I find the word "cattle"? I found the word "mere" eight times, and every time it's been used for the benefit of the tenants. The trial started and I couldn't finish, maybe there's more. But it actually shows how harshly and rigorously rental relationships are regulated. One example. If a contractual penalty has been entered in the rental contract as of today, it is completely void, it is invalid. In fact, the tenant doesn't have to pay a contractual penalty if it's entered into a lease today. I'm going to read out one of the most serious sections that protects the tenant. This is § 275, which states that the agreement that departs from the law on the rights and obligations and liability of the parties to the contract in respect of the rental of the dwelling is void. It's kind of superior. In fact, I think it would be enough for this section not to confirm it seven or eight times, but, just in case, it has been multiplied at least seven more times, if not more, that the agreement is void if it harms the tenant's interests. There is therefore no reason to believe that, by approving this draft, the position of tenants will significantly deteriorate. I would argue that, as a result of this version that comes into force, the tenant will continue to be clearly in a stronger position, both in the eyes of the legislator and in the eyes of the landlord. There is one point that the owners' representatives have pointed out, and I also encourage the Riigikogu to think about it. It is, perhaps, time to consider repealing § 275. In that sense, however, it is an agreement between the parties. And I will say once again that if we open up some possibilities for a contractual penalty, or even for the obligation to cover normal wear, to the tenant, the tenant must accept it. This cannot be demanded by the other party. If the tenant doesn't agree, there's no obligation. Of course, then there is the possibility of not concluding a rental contract, but there is nothing directly applicable. And the last line I want to say is concerned. It is very surprising to me that we also proposed that the rental committees should be mandatory from a certain number of residents in the municipality. One of the charms of the rental committees is certainly others, which I do not know, but one of the charms is that they actually settle the rental disputes. This means a great deal of relief for citizens and is of paramount importance to the tenant. It is certainly a much more problematic and complex undertaking to go to court. For example, there is a rental committee in Tallinn and it is possible to contact the rental committee in case of rental disputes. And the decisions of the rent committee are the basis of enforcement proceedings. In this sense, I am deeply sorry that the broader mandatory nature of the rental committees did not find support in the procedure for the draft. I hope I'm not wrong, but I think the rent committee is only there in Tallinn. I think there could still be rent committees from some 10,000 or 20,000 inhabitants in the municipality. Then it would be easier to argue that we shouldn't spend so much of the courtrooms. But despite everything, as it is a step in the right direction, the Reform Party Group supports this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U377	Next, I would like to ask for a chair on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U378	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Democrats have tabled amendments to the draft law governing rental relationships, the first of which protects tenants who have lost their jobs, giving them the right to cancel the lease more easily. The second suggests abolishing a provision in the draft, which would give the lessor the right to require the tenant to repair the dwelling. We proposed supplementing the Law of Obligations Act with a point that allows the person who has lost his or her job and is in a difficult financial situation to withdraw exceptionally from the lease of a dwelling by giving it 30 days in advance. The change would also be in the interests of the landlord, who can start looking for a new tenant. A similar regulation applies, for example, in Luxembourg. Currently, the basis for early termination of a fixed-term lease is very rigid for the tenant. The law only considers it a valid reason if it is the fault of the lessor that the dwelling cannot be used or the dwelling is in such a condition that living there is a danger to the health of the person. The second amendment by the Socialists was intended to cancel the proposed addition, which gives the lessor the right to write a requirement when the lease is concluded that, after the contract is terminated, the tenant will repair the dwelling or pay for the repair costs. We are of the opinion that today's principle must remain in force, which means that the tenant will not be responsible for the normal wear and change that comes with living. The usual wear cover the rent to be paid. All the more so because a few years ago, a legislative amendment was introduced, according to which the income from the rental of the dwelling would be taxed at 80%. The reason for this was that in the case of rental, the apartment also has a natural cost and it is not right to charge the entire rent income tax. The requirement to paint ceilings and walls, to change wallpaper, to brew on the walls or to compensate for the costs involved in carrying out these works makes the meaning and content of the rent questionable and, in the future, is likely to lead to considerable litigation. According to the bill, the obligation to perform repairs will only apply if the parties have agreed in advance, but in practice, the landlord is mostly the author of the rental contract. The tenants may assume economically difficult obligations that they have not taken into account. The chairman of the Tallinn Circuit Court has also pointed out that tenants would be in a much worse position. It believes that the proposed changes, in particular the obligation to maintain the premises for the tenant and the reform of the regulation of the deposit, will create new large disputes and will in all likelihood lead to a longer duration of legal settlement of the rental disputes. According to the Social Democrats, this bill leads to an imbalance in rental relationships, and to the detriment of the tenant. So we can say this is a step in the wrong direction. This is also the reason why the Social Democratic Party Group does not support draft 232. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U379	Thank you. There's no further call request. We are going to the final vote, just as the lead committee has proposed. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 232. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U380	There are 73 members of the Riigikogu and 8 against, with no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U381	Next is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Isamaa. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Isamaa Group in Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U382	Thank you, good Chairman! Thank you, good guardians of the Republic, protectors and all of us! This is an extremely interesting process. At some point officials knew what was best for us than for society and refused to recognise more than 500 studies that proved that e-cigarette is 95% less harmful than regular cigarettes. Maybe we can assume something. In 2019 there were 37 people who died in fire, 18 of whom had no sense of smoking in bed. This year's numbers are now 33 and 16. If we consider that the value of one human life is EUR 1 million, then we are already actually in the place where this bill is needed. Yes, it is EUR 0,2 per millilitre, which means that the litre would be more expensive than EUR 100.200. Can you imagine selling water at a liquor store with the same tax, so if you're thirsty and want a litre of bottle, it'll cost 200 euros more in the liquor store than in the regular store next door? That's what created, let's say, 80% of the black market. We are talking about the interests of businessmen here, but we forget that there are consumers. It is consumers that we have not talked about. Consumers need to be confident that they can buy laboratory-tested and delicious goods from a special store. E-smokers can stop smoking and people have used it. But the only thing we've made comfortable is that in every pole station you can get that regular cigarette, but the less harmful products are somewhere in special stores where they're hidden down somewhere. We have already achieved that heated tobacco products have reached Estonia, including nicotine pillows. Yes, they have their influence, but what is important and what we tend to forget is the effect on bystanders: they are no longer passive smokers. I think we've taken one good step by learning from our own mistakes and stopping excise duty for two years. We are told that Latvia is also taking some steps. After all, Latvia could actually learn from us. Perhaps at this very moment, Estonia is a good example that we can admit our mistakes, learn from them and take good decisions accordingly. Perhaps in Europe we will be among the three countries that want smoke-free societies. These are already England, which has set its course for 2030, and Iceland, as well as 2030. Smoke-free Estonian Support Group has taken the course of 2035. Consumers are entitled to a laboratory-verified product and should be affordable. It could also be cheaper than regular cigarettes. The whole of Europe and the whole world see that overregulation does not guarantee this. I think that in this hall, experience really counts, not what was born in office silence and whose name is competence. I thank you all for your support. I'm sure we'll be free of smoke in our lives. I guess you all have this experience of what it's like to have someone beside you, or to smoke an e-smoker, and what it's like to have a person beside you pulling a regular cigarette. We hope to give a helping hand to those who make regular cigarettes so that they can choose between three products: e-smoking, nicotine pads and heated tobacco products. Thank you very much. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U383	On behalf of the Maris Lauri Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U384	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is not a good bill. This is not a good draft procedurally. The way in which this procedure takes place and the way in which the solution was proposed does not correspond to what we were actually told. This draft also eliminates the excise duty on nicotine-containing liquids. The previous speaker spoke about the difference between a smoker and a smoker. Yes, it is. But you know, my nose recognizes when there's also a liquid smoker, and it's not a pleasant smell. So I don't know if it's healthier. Yeah, maybe it is, maybe it isn't. Really, you can't smell that heavy tobacco, but still. Is there now a nicotine product and nicotine is harmful, which is not subject to excise duty? Excise duty is a tax levied on harmful goods so that they are not so attractive for consumption. That is the purpose of excise duties. Now, this loss is temporary, for two years. What's the point? I understand that perhaps there is hope that in two years' time it will be possible to extend it or that in two years' time Latvia will raise the excise duty to the Estonian level, i.e. Latvia will choose our way. I don't think the Latvians are gonna take this road, but I don't know. When we discussed this in the Commission, there was an understanding that the solution could be a somewhat lower rate of excise duty, perhaps, but a uniform rate of excise duty, precisely because it is not technically appropriate to introduce a different rate for nicotine-containing and nicotine-free liquids. But now, as we understand it, there are products that are proven to be harmful because they contain nicotine, but which are no longer subject to excise duty. Really, I would say unfair and unequal treatment. It is said that some interest groups do not support the draft, and they are bad, but some support and are therefore good. Yes, unfortunately, we have gone so far that most of those who have come into direct contact with it think that this solution is a bad one. But one of the interest groups who gets the roof money from the Riigikogu thinks it's good. We believe that this is not a good draft, simply because this solution is not a good one. It's short-sighted, short-lived and can cause more trouble than good. The Reform Party will not support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U385	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U386	Thank you, Mr President. I do not like to repeat myself, so I will be very brief. The Social Democrats do not support this draft for the reasons expressed in this same draft at second reading. Anyone can access it with a verbatim. We have not been able to identify any positive effects in this draft apart from what one of the previous speakers said: consumers receive a product that is harmful to health at a lower cost. However, we have identified a number of negative or uncertain effects. That is why we do not think that this is a sensible and sensible draft, and we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U387	The political groups have no further wish to speak. The commission has proposed a final vote of 207 on the draft, and we will go to it. But first, the sleigh. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity 207. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U388	There are 53 members of the Riigikogu, 27 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U389	Let's go to the next bill. This is the draft law amending the Land Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act 285, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the third reading again. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? No, it's not. The commission has proposed a final vote of 285 on the draft. Can we go to the vote? Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Land Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, 285. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U390	There are 81 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U391	And now the third reading of the Bill 233 of Amendment to the Copyright Act, the Tax Administration Act and the Industrial Property Law Act (the so-called Amendment of the Empty Cassette Payment System and the Extension of the Patent Office's Tasks) initiated by the Government of the Republic. The representatives of the political groups have the opportunity to speak. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I would like to ask for the floor of Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U392	Thank you, good Chairman! Good luck with all the ambassadors you're here! Indeed, many authors and many performers are pleased that once again we will be able to admit our own mistakes and end the unequal treatment of Estonian authors and performers. For some reason, since 2006, we have refused to recognise that there are other media than the cassette and the CD-ROM. While the whole of Europe and the rest of the world are moving forward, Estonia was such an unfortunate banana republic in this region. For some reason, we preferred multinational corporations, thinking that their business is much more important than our own entrepreneurs, performers and authors. This is not an additional, burdensome tax, as many have said. This is the equal treatment of Estonian authors. Quite a number of Estonian authors, whom I am not going to name here, but who you know, had already registered in neighbouring countries because they felt safer there, felt that their rights were better protected there. I do not believe that, for example, the price of a tablet would be significantly affected if it were to be more expensive than four euros, or that someone would not buy a flash drive if they were to pay three cents to Estonian authors. We're talking about small sums of money, but it's about principles. What we are saying is that, as a small cultural nation, we must keep our authors. And we've made the wrong decisions. You can guess for which reasons this time has not been changed for 14 years. That is the simple answer to the Estonian authors and to all of you who are emptyhearted and say that this is not your government: that is why it is sometimes necessary to change coalitions so that some can oppose, but we can say: this government did it. I thank the coalition partners! I thank Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas and Minister of Justice Raivo Time! And I also thank all the members of the Committee on Culture and, of course, the support group of Estonian authors. Let's go! We're pretty good at making mistakes. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U393	Raimond Kaljulaid under the authority of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U394	Ladies and gentlemen, I stand before you not only as your colleague in the Riigikogu, but also as a member of the Estonian Authors' Association and the Estonian Artists' Association. It is clear that we must fully preserve and protect Estonian culture and its creators. I would also like to thank all these associations, state officials, members of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, members of the Riigikogu and others who have contributed to the fact that this bill has reached third reading. Among others, I would certainly like to thank Aadu Black and also my good colleague, Indrek Saart. If you shake this bill, his nerve cells will also fall from there, which he spent in the previous government as Minister of Culture, arguing with the then Minister of Justice on this very issue. But this, of course, is nothing compared to how many nerve cells Estonian creators have spent, waiting for this law to be updated. I take this opportunity to speak here in this very honourable Riigikogu speech chair in order to emphasise: the present time in which we live is exceptionally difficult for Estonian cultural artists. There has been a great deal of talk in the public about the tourism sector, the difficulties faced by tourist accommodation companies and how their turnover has fallen sharply. The creators of Estonia have actually suffered equally, just as much and very hard. Their incomes largely depend on people staying in one place at the same time, in one room, but governments around the world are doing everything to make sure that people do exactly the opposite, so that they are not in the same room at the same time. And that is why many people who live by providing cultural experiences, providing entertainment, incomes to a very large extent or completely lost. Perhaps you recently noticed that the well-known singer Koit Toome spoke about how musicians he knew sold their musical instruments, musical techniques, have gone to other work. It's tragic. To be honest, it is a little like the 1990s when the creators were also very difficult because of the upheavals at the time. All the more so with regard to this law, the next steps should actually be considered. The world has changed. When you went to the store in your day and bought a CD, you paid EUR 10 to 12 for it, of which EUR 5 to 6 went to performers and authors of music. Today, when you go to the streaming platform, you listen to a new album, a Tanel Padar album or a Sibyl Vane album, for example, the author of this music gets a few cents, a fraction. So what if you paid that monthly fee about as much as you paid the CD back then? The technological digital revolution we live in is not fair in all respects. The platform economy also has its own dark side, and this is something that both the Estonian legislator and the international level need to deal with. We, as our country, must also contribute to this. We need to understand that it is very difficult for musicmakers in Estonian to compete in the global market for example in problems caused by globalisation. In Tallinn, the Social Democrats think very seriously about how to ensure the rapid growth of the whole area after these restrictions are lifted. If we don't think about it in advance today, we don't think about how we support culture as well as the whole field of entertainment, it will be difficult for them to get on their feet afterwards. This requires very specific rescue plans today. And there is certainly a need to think about this nationwide. Among other things, we need to consider, for example, how we can use music in our foreign trade policy and not simply in the cultural exchange process, which is also very important, but music can also be exported. These are important issues and this law is a huge step forward. Once again, thank you to all those who have contributed to this. And now we have to take a few more steps forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U395	Leo Kunnas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U396	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, as an author, I, too, have the sincere pleasure of admitting that we have come this far. In fact, in his speech, Mr Tarmo Kruusimäe said almost everything, thanking the people he needed. Well, since I'm a writer, I've had a little experience with visual art, but I'd like to tell you a short story today because I'm also a screenwriter for the 1944 movie. One time I, producer Kris Taska, and director Elmo Nüganen came together to watch the Chinese film site Douban. In China, "1944" is shown as a pirate. We were looking at the number of millions of viewers that were there, and then I thought it would be nice if each of us had a cent on one watch. We'd be a lot richer today than we are. I would like to say with this story that the Estonian authors actually win this bill, also win when, for example, DVDs and CDs are no longer made, but simply streamed online, their creations are shown, just as most films and music are used today. That's a very good bill! I'm glad we've come this far. That's all for today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U397	On behalf of the Heidy Purga Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U398	Thank you very much, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Listening to previous speakers, there is no doubt that everyone will really care about this bill, this amendment to the law, and the soul. Today, on 16 December 2020, we are doing some history for all creators, all authors. I would like to personally thank all the members of the Riigikogu who helped to improve and improve the substance of this draft. The whole process, where different stakeholders were actively involved, was a good example of a functioning parliamentaryism. It is true that this law has been lying on the Ministry's carpet for 15 years. Today is the end of this time. I would like to ask for support for this important draft. We are thus supporting the culture of our country and the creators and authors that are so important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U399	On behalf of the Black Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U400	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Inflammatory calls are usually made when the bill is initiated. Right now, it seems like the ball's been scored beautifully and successfully, and we're explaining why we did it. But let's still explain! I thought I'd make a long, thorough speech about it. What makes me most happy is that there were a lot of disputes during the preparation of this bill, sometimes differences in detail, but one thing that warms my heart is that it is one of the few drafts that went through the Commission by consensus. There was no limit to us or you. I really enjoyed the fact that the members of the Committee on Culture really are the faith of education and culture. And although one or the other party or third party said that some details could be improved, the compromise was agreed, their amendments were withdrawn. Yeah, time changes. There was talk of streaming, and after a few years, the entire compositions will be broadcast in different forms. But, hey, that's the way it is with education and culture! Time doesn't stop, in two or three years, we're gonna break the law again, we're gonna take it back to the time. I'm sure it's what's pretty good today, but tomorrow we'll see if we can change it in one direction or another. And in the end, it's also a good law in that there's a control mechanism inside, how things are measured, and on which to tell us where we got and where we didn't get after a few years. As all the other speakers have said, I say: we go on and make the law even better! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U401	Thank you. All the factions have spoken. The commission has proposed a final vote of 233 on the draft. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Copyright Act, the Tax Administration Act and the Fundamentals of Industrial Property Law Act 233. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U402	There are 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U403	The next draft is the third reading of the draft law 235 on the repeal of the Commercial Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, consequently, the amendment of other laws. It is possible to open negotiations. But it seems that the political groups do not want to negotiate. The commission has proposed a final vote of 235 on the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, can we go to the vote? I shall put to the final vote the draft law 235 on the repeal of the Commercial Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, consequently, on the amendment of other laws. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U404	There are 76 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U405	Today's latest item: Second reading of the draft Act of Accession to the Meteorological Convention initiated by the Government of the Republic. Jüri Jaanson, member of the Economic Commission, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U406	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act 278 on Accession to the Meter Convention was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 26 October and the first reading took place on 25 November. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups by the deadline for the proposed amendments, by 9 December. Between two readings, the Commission discussed the draft on two occasions. The first time, procedural decisions were taken and the second time, the Commission discussed a proposal by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications for an amendment. This proposal was accepted, i.e. only changes to the draft text. In the only sentence of the draft act, where we confirm that we are joining the meter convention, only the year 1875 was mentioned before, but at the end of the sentence the words 'as amended in 1907 and 1921' are now added. The reason is simply to have a more precise understanding of what we will then still be joining, either in the original 1875 meter convention or in what has been slightly amended in later years. The draft also passed between two readings, and the commission made procedural decisions: the proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the second reading, i.e. by 16 December, the second reading, and the final vote. All these decisions were consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U407	Thank you. No questions for the waitress. It is now possible to open negotiations. Would you like to negotiate? It seems that there is no wish for negotiations. Then we will go to the examination of the amendments. There is one amendment tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendment. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 278. I'll give you a hall call. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act of Accession to the Meteorological Convention initiated by the Government of the Republic 278. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-16_U408	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to stay here for a few more minutes if you are not in a hurry. There are 59 members of the Riigikogu in favour, there is no one against, one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law. Thank you, this has been the subject of a discussion of the items on the agenda. I just want to remind you that tomorrow we have a long-distance hearing. You can participate at home, you can come to this house, be in your office, but if you wish, you can come to the hall. You can participate in the hall in the usual way. And Santa's coming tomorrow. Anything nice for you!
