ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our three-day briefing. First, please, let's do the presence check! 17 members of the Riigikogu are present and 84 are absent. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Rural Affairs Arvo Aller and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Reinsalu. As usual, first members of the pre-registered Riigikogu get the right to ask a question, they can also ask a more specific question, and then there is one question from the Chamber. There are two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U2	The first question is asked by Indrek Saar and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U3	Thank you for the floor. Mr Prime Minister! The times when the market gate was able to buy medicines or medications from an aunt's bag will hopefully be years ago. And although it may happen from time to time that we still get some offers in one form or another in our e-mail box that offer miracle medicines that cure us of all diseases, in most cases we do not use them. We're going to the pharmacy. Today, it is ensured that medicines sold at the pharmacy are subject to strict national control, and that is why we trust pharmacies. We will go there knowing that what we are getting from there is scientifically proven and will most likely benefit our health, because pharmacies are supervised by the state, and that is the way it should be. But on 3 May, we read in the media that 3 million surgical masks have arrived in Estonia, which are about to be sold to pharmacies, but five days later the message came that these authorised surgical masks have become an individual hygiene device. As it turned out yesterday, recognised professionals in the sector have had very serious doubts about the conformity of the product, even with the requirements for dust masks. Mr. Prime Minister! In order to protect people, we do not allow the sale in pharmacies, for example, of a chlorine drink called MMS, even though the manufacturer calls it a mineral mouthwash. Why has national supervision not clearly intervened in this case concerning masks? Why are surgeon masks allowed to be sold in pharmacies, the validity of which raises very well-founded questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! I will start by saying that it was probably in Monday's Riigikogu's parents' council, video on the road, you were there too, where the same topic we were raised. I promised once again that I would pass on a request to the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, as well as to the Minister for Public Administration and the Minister for Social Affairs. He was also contacted by Taavi Asa, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and by the head of TTJA. The masks that have now reached the pharmacies are the ones you probably talk about, the wholesalers brought from China and sold to pharmacies. The supplier is responsible for quality, but I certainly cannot stress: there is no way to give false information in the manual of masks or in advertising them. The Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority has also formally stated that it will check compliance with standards, and that is one of its most important tasks. The Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority cannot allow the product to be sold with or without false information. Yeah, as far as I'm concerned, there was some misinformation in the beginning, but it was pointed out and said it had to be changed. I have asked the head of the TTJA to examine this more specifically, because, as I said, the debate was on Monday when the body of elders ended. In this sense, I completely agree with you that I cannot sell the wrong product in the pharmacy and give you more misinformation about it. So, of course, the subject is very serious. When people buy drugs or even personal protective equipment, of course, they need to know what they are dealing with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U5	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U6	Thank you for your answer. But I still did not understand how the government would help to clarify the process in this case. We know that the batch that arrived in Estonia has been issued by a quality certificate from a laboratory in Poland, and our mask certificate number was missing in the database there. We know that the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority has not been able to contact the Polish certification body to figure out what the actual situation is. In this situation, has the government tried to help us find out? Have you tried to use your contacts in Poland to understand whether the alleged certificate of masks is valid or is a fake? Or if these masks are produced in China and we allegedly have a reasonable level of communication with the Chinese Government, can you help to verify what this is about? Because people go to the pharmacy again and again and buy these masks for quite an expensive price without knowing what their real value is. For example, if we make our own mask, we will at least be able to take the direction of the profession and Tallinn University of Technology from the TTJA website, which tells us how much one or the other material actually protects us and other people. For these masks, it's absolutely indeterminate. What do you expect from them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U7	Thank you. Let us now go specifically on with the subject of these dust masks. Of course, we have acted here, and we have also given the corresponding orders-guidances to the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, as well as the Agency itself has acted operationally. In particular, TTJA has confirmed their compliance with the standard, i.e. they are individual hygiene protection devices, but I would stress that they are not medical masks or devices, so-called surgical masks, which you have asked about. These are FFP1 masks that are suitable for use by ordinary people because they protect the carrier when, for example, a virus particle is attached to a salivary dropper or a dust particle. If the instructions for use and the packaging of the product provided with masks sold in pharmacies contain misleading or faulty information, the mask shall be used to protect against drop-in infection, such information shall not be included in the advertisement or in the medium of either FFP1 or medical mask. The company received this remark as soon as I know, and today the company has corrected this mistake and the products are being sold with the right information. Now your question about Polish and Polish companies. I will certainly ask both the TTJA and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who hopefully will help to review it, to pass on this information. If false information has come from that company, we will definitely review this information.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U8	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U9	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! On the subject of masks, the government managed to boil social media yesterday. Two news side by side, both very understandable when taken alone. On the one hand, the Minister for Economic Affairs says that everyone should wear masks, they will continue, on the other hand, the government states that it will give 50,000 masks to our allies, who are in the greatest trouble that was the sum. How do you organise government communication, and how are you satisfied with it? In fact, there is a lot of ground in both news, but neither of these basically, in my opinion, was passed on by the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U10	Thank you. I think that the other half of your question really concerns our two allies, both in NATO and in the European Union, Italy and Spain. As far as Italy is concerned, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has asked for assistance in his letter, and he did so on 1 April. Both Spain and Italy have also requested assistance through the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism. Indeed, Estonia has decided to support both countries with personal protective equipment, in particular masks, different masks, but tomorrow the Government of the Republic should also discuss possible financial support for both countries. As far as I know, Italy has a size of 25000 surgical and 5000 FFP2 masks, as well as Spain. Now the first part of your question, which has been under discussion about wearing these masks, I understand that it was a question. If we are talking not only about exit but also about the current situation in Estonia, then I think it is very right to wear masks. I have also said that it should be such a social norm in society that masks are worn to protect themselves, but also, of course, to protect those around us so that we do not infect others through a possible drop infection.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U12	Next, Kaja Kallas asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U13	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! The question that interests all people, entrepreneurs, as well as students in their homes, is: when will the situation end? Last week, when I asked you about the exit strategy, you replied that you had a working group, and on the same day you also had a debate on it. My question today has to do with the same. How far has the government come with an exit from the crisis and an exit from the emergency situation plan? We see and hear, through the media, different signals from emergency managers about dates, as well as about measures or what limitations remain, which restrictions go, the same way about meters and conditions. Can you please explain what is the official position of the government in this emergency exit strategy and how far this plan has come? And, of course, all people are also interested in the so-called road map or the dates that should be seen along this road.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U14	Thank you. I fully understand this issue of yours, and you, let's say, the extension, that people are interested in specific dates, when then the emergency situation will come out and when the different restrictions in society will end. It's understandable, and I totally understand these people. I have said and said before in this Question Time: it is my wish that the state of emergency should end as soon as possible. In my opinion, however, the main criterion is what this viral outbreak and COVID-19 disease mean for human health and life, the public health aspect. I think that to answer you on the date on which one or the other or the third limit ends, no country today can give a specific time schedule, for example, scientists or scientific councils. Is the emergency coming to an end on 1 May or is it going to be prolonged? Answer: The government's decision is that the emergency situation lasts until 1 May, unless the government decides otherwise. I don't want to make big headlines in this briefing either. I will stick to what I have said in the media on the last two days: we will decide this at the latest and at the end of next week at the earliest. I think that this time frame makes us feel that the emergency situation should end now or that it needs to be extended. The question, of course, is also how long to extend this period, whether it is a week, two weeks, a month or more. Now, in answer to your question about the emergency exit strategy, I consider this to be very important and I think it is a very important road map or, let us say, a document on how we are going to emerge from this emergency situation. But I want to point out from the very beginning that, unfortunately, we have not yet reached the stabilisation phase. This was said on Tuesday, when we had the COVID-19 commission of the Government of the Republic, including Professor Lutsar and the scientific council, that we had not yet reached the stabilisation phase or this plateau, let alone the decline phase. Now this document is coming up, we have a working version. I think that, in the coming weeks or by the end of next week, we will try to be so prepared that we can introduce it much more widely and discuss it, but it is not yet in this state of readiness. I certainly consider it important to discuss this exit plan or strategy with the body of elders.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U15	Echo Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U16	Thank you. I think people are also interested in what are the criteria that you are still taking into account. You yourself are always talking about these corona victims, and I agree that they are visible victims to whom we are all sympathetic and who we want to help, but there are also invisible victims in connection with this crisis that we do not see. These are families where parents remain in work, where children's mental health deteriorates, where there are people who are alone in their homes, especially older people who also have mental problems in this respect and therefore maybe their health deteriorates. We're talking about people who don't get scheduled treatment because we're having a corona crisis. The entire medical sector is still being used for its benefit. How much do you take into account the so-called invisible victims that we do not see directly, but who are there, and the number of people who are unemployed, who are being treated on schedule, or who are not, in this case? How much does this strategy still take into account both sides?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U17	Thank you. I am absolutely convinced that this strategy will take account of all the elements that you have just described. Certainly towards the end of my answer, I will say my sense of what these specific criteria might be. We're smarter today than maybe a week ago. Serious work has been done by both the specific working group and the members of the government committee, and we have also discussed the matter with the Scientific Advisory Board. When you said that there should be an important step out of here for a moment, I think that the first stage, when we are talking about returning to normal life, should, in my opinion, be a scheduled treatment. I consider this to be the most important thing. I have asked for both Dr Arkadi Popov and the representative of the Health Insurance Fund to come to the government committee on Friday morning, where we will review the plan for the planned rehabilitation of hospitals. We have these schemes and hospital coverage data ahead of us as to how many Estonian hospitals have completed with COVID-19-positive patients, both ordinary hospitalization and, of course, intensive care. The biggest one, as we know, is in Kuressaare Hospital, but thankfully, thank God! In the rest of hospitals, the number of people in need of intensive care has been around 10 patients in recent days. So it's important to restore the scheduled treatment. I know that, for example, the North Estonian Regional Hospital has always continued with scheduled treatment and received as many patients as possible. As far as I am concerned, two thirds of the daily volume is being solved either by video bridge or by telephone conversation. When it comes to these measures or criteria, one thing is definitely the number of people in hospital care, the number of patients, the number of people infected, and the third is the coverage of intensive care facilities. The fourth, which I consider very important, is the resilience of society and the willingness of the Estonian people to follow the measures imposed. I think it's very important to get such a social sense. Next, I think it is also important to have such a general measure or indicator of the economy, which should consist of several, say, tens of indicators, including what you mentioned, namely the number of registered unemployed. It is certainly important to have access to medical care, whether it is an EMO, a family doctor or a specialist. And, of course, trust measures, whether or not the virus is spreading. So all of these indicators or indicators should now be considered in order to reach the next phase. I'm sorry I'm out of time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U18	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The first part of my question is this: if you were talking about measuring instruments a moment ago, whether the morbidity must have reached zero or if there are some figures that you see in your analysis with experts, which level it must be below. But the other part of my question relates to the same exit strategy. Although you are now saying that you are preparing it, I have the impression that a minister has long been in place. And this is about our Minister for Education and Science, Mailis Reps. This number of tons of press releases and the lightning of statements, when we get back to school and what's going on, has been pretty colossal. This has caused a lot of confusion, while before these statements, for example, virologist Andres Merits or Irja Lutsar has said that basically big events can only take place at the end of the summer. Andres Merits, as far as I know, has also said that opening schools in the way that has been said today would be clearly premature and could upset the whole of our current strategy. The Minister himself has said that one could, for example, have development discussions at school. In my opinion, many schools have already been very successful in conducting these development interviews and teachings through online solutions. Please tell me whether Mailis Reps has a different strategy or whether it is consistent with your strategy, which you have described to us today in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U20	Thank you. I also answered the question of your fellow official Kaja Kallas that the same exit strategy is currently in the development phase and at the stage where the Commission, the Agency and the Scientific Advisory Board are still finishing this work. After that, I think it is very important to start negotiating it also in society at large, with various interest groups. It is certainly important for me to negotiate with the Riigikogu's body of elders. And, as I said, I hope that in the coming weeks, the strategy should be prepared to speak specifically. You asked a very specific question as to whether this one input or measure, the number of people in hospital care or the coverage of intensive care should reach zero. A perfectly understandable question. And I'm asking myself, too, what does that mean? I'm sure I think all the meters I've read are to be looked at on a certain timeline. It can't be that one hour is like this, and now we're about to do some kind of relief. I think one day is very little. It seems to me that we are talking about 10-14 days here, more like two weeks. If you ask if this next phase, this stabilisation phase, where we can really begin to ease certain constraints, to reach zero, it has to reach zero, then no, I think it doesn't have to reach zero. The question is whether it has to remain a plateau that is a specific number, or whether it has to be a fall. For example, there is currently a serious debate on this in the preparation of the bill or the preparation of a document. So I don't think this indicator has to reach zero. When we get to zero, we're already in phase three. If we ever reach zero with this virus, no one is forecasting it, but says that we need to learn how to live with this virus, then we need to look at longer-term measures. Now what you asked me about Mailis Reps. First of all, I would very much like to congratulate the Minister for Education and Science, given the complexity of the situation in society with regard to this whole corona virus and COVID-19 disease. If the subject of graduation is raised here not only at the end of the school, but at the end of the 12th grade and their future, I believe that the Minister of Education and Research has acted very well and specifically and has done his best in this very difficult and confused situation. After all, we have discussed jointly in the Government of the Republic how it should be 2019/2020. Looks like the end of the academic year. Of course, particular attention must be paid to what happens, for example, to the 12th grade graduates when they take the exams to begin their entrance to the university. In my opinion, the Minister for Education and Science has brought a very fundamental, concrete, clear plan. Of course, he will have a few more weeks to clarify it and share it with schoolchildren and local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U22	I'm sorry! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U23	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U24	Next, Heljo Pikhof asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U25	Thank you. The necessity or unnecessaryness of masks has become very conflicting information from the government, the Health Board, scientists, including virologists, as to whether or not these masks are needed, whether or not it protects. Some consider masks to be unnecessary, especially from the Health Board, and others say that wearing masks in public places should become the norm for virologists who say it. It's common knowledge that this virus is, let's say, a drop infection. In saying that a simple mask doesn't protect an infectious agent, of course, there's a grain of truth in it. But I'm sure the masker will protect the people around. If everyone were wearing masks in public places, I think that we all agree that infection would not spread in the way it is today. Hence the question: why is there conflicting information about wearing masks from different parties? Why is the government lacking a firm position on wearing masks? Would it not be wise to base this on the opinion of scientists and the experience of other countries, where the limit to the spread of infection has been established by making wearing a mask compulsory? I think we all want to get out of this situation as quickly as possible. Does the government have a plan to make wearing a mask compulsory or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U26	Thank you, Mrs. Pikhof. You're saying in your question why we don't listen to our specialists. When I said, on Sunday night, before 9 o'clock, that the mask should become or must become such a social norm in Estonia, you have the mask in front of you today, and I too have the mask in front of me, I think it is very right and very reasonable, then the wisdom and saying actually came from Professor Irja Lutsar, who we had in the Council of the Republic's Council, and he felt that the mask should become a social norm in society. I very much support it, I think it's the right thing to do. I said here before we start leaving at one point, when we have, for example, speed tests. I had this conversation last night with my foreign counterparts, the German Chancellor and the Polish Prime Minister. Europe as a whole is currently looking for reliable rapid tests and this will certainly be a very important part of it. On the other hand, I think that the same personal protective equipment that you and I have ahead of us today will also be decisive when we exit. I wouldn't say as you say, the government says one thing, but the Health Board says another. I have been in a conference room with both the Head of the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Board and the Head of the Health Board at the COVID-19 government committee meeting. I asked, referring to this teaching by TTJA, which I think is very good, how I can make a mask myself at home, and I also have a mask made at home, and I thank my husband for whether the Health Board is against it and whether it is the wrong teaching that TTJA gives. The head of the health department said it wasn't, it certainly adds something to prevent the virus. But really, the masks are very different: there are homemade masks, there are medical masks, there are FFP1 respirators, or dust masks, there are FFP2 respirators, which are mainly used by hospitals and medical institutions, and there are FFP3 respirators, which are used by both hospitals and medical institutions. And both FFP2 and FFP3 have a 95% and 99% filtration rate, respectively. On a medical mask, or surgical mask, it's at least 80%.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U27	Heljo Pikhof, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U28	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! In fact, the Health Department told me for a long time that wearing masks doesn't help. But now, when it comes to the lack of masks, for example, why does the State not involve all the interested operators and do not tax incentives for those who bring masks? At the moment, the duty will be increased by 6,5%, plus 20% VAT. It is alleged that the customs authorities are holding on to simple masks at the airport for days, as all masks are subject to special checks. As far as the European Commission is concerned, according to information from the European Commission, primary personal protective equipment should be exempt from tax. I understand that when it comes to simple masks, they protect people in some way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U29	Thank you. Let me just give you an example of this. I agree with your final phrase or your final phrase 100 percent. I also think wearing a mask will help prevent this virus and disease in any case, but if we put on a mask, we'll take the virus. Of course, there are certain rules in use here, such as how long a mask lasts. Some masks can be reused three times after washing and then loses its effectiveness. But if we're still talking about wearing the mask right and we're changing it, I think he's helping too. But, of course, you need the right material masks. The Minister of State Administration has said that the price of material in this inner, most important layer has increased by several thousands of percent. I think this illustrates well the mask market in the world. You said some planes were stuck somewhere. Some planes and some orders aren't going anywhere. And as has been said here in reply to Mr Island's question, the destinations are also reached by masks of the wrong category and type. The wrong shipment also arrived in Estonia, and this error was corrected by the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. Could he be an obligation to society? At the moment, we have not said so, that there is an obligation. There is no emergency manager's order that this is an obligation. The reason is that these masks simply do not have enough. But I believe that the people of Estonia have good finger-working skills. You can also make masks at home with handy materials. And just like you said, I think it's better than not wearing a mask. So I say for the third time here in Question Time, I think, that the mask is in any case a social norm in Estonian society as long as this outbreak lasts. Of course, it has to be said here specifically that if you go to the forest trail or to a non-forest track to exercise, you cannot have a mask in front of you, because then he can be dangerous to our health.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U30	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I had a question today about personal protective equipment, but it will probably not be answered in the short term, so I will take this opportunity and ask you now. I also sent out the details in advance, I hope you've come to know them. On today's first question, when you answered Indrek Saare, there was a debate about the ambiguity with regard to masks sold in pharmacies, because they are not exactly what they are sold as. My question, however, concerns orders from the state. Undoubtedly, when there was talk in the media that pharmacies sell things that are not exactly what they are called, people fear and wonder whether our front line workers have the right and proper protection. As people's health is at stake here, it needs a very clear answer and a position. Please give an overview of all supplies or purchases by the State in the case of PPE, when they have taken place, what origin they have, what cost they have been brought, how much and where they have been passed on and who are using them! Is there a certificate or tests for each consignment to ensure that they are those for which they are called and who has issued the relevant certificate or tested the consignments?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U32	Thank you. I will now ask the President of the sitting, in this case, whether he will give me the next two or three hours to answer this question and tell me what procurements have been made, what certificates they will answer, where they will go, how many. I'm sure I'm ready to give you this information, but you understand that it's impossible to give an answer to your question here in three minutes. In order to give such an overview, if you ask a question in writing or say that your question was written, what we do here is bureaucracy, then I will have it put together. All the questions you've asked about probably require a good day's work. Jaak Aabil, Minister of Public Administration, and his team have it. Of course we'll pass it on to you. Does the state have an overview? The answer is yes, there is an overview. The Minister of State Administration has received this responsibility and task to have an overview of all personal protective equipment not only masks, but also hats, gowns, slippers, glasses, etc., where personal protective equipment is needed, where there is a shortage. The Minister also organises procurements worldwide, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Estonian ambassadors, I would like to mention the Estonian ambassadors in China, who have really given very great assistance, with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, with the Minister of Social Affairs, with various hospitals with a very high level of competence in the procurement process. So there's this review, but it's unthinkable to describe it here in three minutes. You asked if all front line workers had masks. Well, there's really no definition of a front-line worker. But we can assume who this front-line employee is, of course, an employee of the Police and Border Guard Board, a rescue officer, medical staff, certainly a defence ally, but I also think, for example, a kindergarten teacher and a teacher. I think he's also a grocery store vendor or a person who puts food out at the store. I'm sure he's in a nursing home. They're all front line workers. If you ask whether they all have a set of personal protective equipment in Estonia, from head to toe, then the answer is that there isn't. It's being dealt with. For example, we have sent personal protective equipment on a fast track, one concrete example is Saaremaa stores, circa 20.25 stores.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U33	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U34	Next, Urmas Kruuse asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I'm asking again what I asked for last week, and the reason is actually simple. The accent of last week's question was that the government was still quite rigid in this respect, but the news came from the Coalition Council that a small window was open to migrant workers. I also asked you for some information, and you sent me some tables yesterday. When I take these tables, I find it my surprise that we are talking about about 600 workers who are able to remain in Estonia until the end of July for the decision of this coalition council. More than a million seasonal workers in agriculture are currently missing in the world. European countries are all in trouble. I do not understand why the coalition has now made a correction in the last trouble before the Committee on Legal Affairs and is able to provide farmers with only about 600 workers. Tell me where the problem is here. Logic tells us that even if we have the hope that some of the potential unemployed will be ready for retraining, in fact, as we know, in agriculture and more generally in business, the retraining of certain specialists does not go so quickly. In agriculture, this means that the work of this season will in any case be hit. Why was it so difficult to find a reasonable compromise and to give these people the opportunity to work at least until the end of the season and not to make an additional clause that, if the Minister or, under his authority, the Head of the PBGB wishes to do so, it would be possible for certain people to stay here for longer?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U36	Thank you. Indeed, we have spoken to you many times on this subject. I said, and I promised you, that I would do everything in my power to find a solution and a remedy in the agricultural sector. If you say 600 isn't enough, I understand. But I don't understand that 600 is nothing at all, because 600 is definitely more than the situation that was ten days ago or two weeks ago. The situation then was that all seasonal workers, specifically speaking of agriculture, forestry or fishing, must leave Estonia when a period of 9 or 12 months is completed. Yes, the opportunity, or the bottleneck we were able to give for relief until the end of July, is one of those, according to the data I sent you yesterday, that the circa 600 or twenty after the people who will certainly help our agricultural sector now in the most bitter working hours. You yourself know, as a minister for years in this ministry, that spring farming is always very fast and must be done as soon as possible. And the opportunities are already opening up, and now these jobs can be done. If someone completes this period, it may be extended until 31 July. It is also clear, and we cannot close our eyes here, we can see that there are certainly even bigger numbers in recent weeks. But in the last few or three weeks, about 2 000 people have come to Estonia and registered as unemployed. Of course, we cannot take one for one here that if a person loses his job in another sector, he will now go straight to agriculture to help. Perhaps this is not logistically possible if, for example, a person lives in an urban environment. But in any case, also among those in Estonia who are currently unemployed, I believe that some will turn to the agricultural sector to help with seasonal work and get bread on the table, but why not work there even longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U37	Urmas Kruuse, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! We have stressed on several occasions that, in this crisis, we could and should put aside certain acute political preferences. There is a clear sign in the air that the EKRE has not given this coalition the opportunity to meet farmers. This response is also limited by the fact that, if, for example, the Chamber of Agriculture has said that seasonal workers are needed in Estonia at least 2000, then the mark that is currently laid down is relatively small. And another thing that is important for the use of labour is that the agricultural sector has used this workforce in a very polyfunctional way. This means that when certain jobs in a company have been completed, other jobs have been possible. In the case of agriculture, perhaps we are talking not only about July, i.e. sowing, but also about harvesting. The government and the coalition have failed to fully reflect this. Even the Chancellor of Justice has pointed out that it is very important in terms of food security that these people can work this year until the end of the season. The European Commission has announced that it has proposed to Member States that agricultural workers should be transferred to the country's essential services sector, such as medical workers and carers. This actually shows the depth of this crisis, which we may not feel. If our farmers could now use the workforce in the format they have been able to do so so so far and then switch to the re-adaptation option, the experts believe that this cannot be fully achieved, because of the specifics of agricultural work, i.e. always the seasonal workers, there would be hope that they would be competitive. As a result, some of the measures that have been targeted by the MES to the tune of 200 million are not as critical as the labour force.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U40	Why do you ignore this farmer's concern?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U41	Thank you for this question. In this sense, I fully agree that we are in this very difficult situation, I think it is right to say in the most difficult situation that exists at least here in Europe after World War II. Of course, we must be able to look at such political nuances and aspects as a whole and be as united as possible in the Riigikogu and the government. I think this debate has been very constructive among the five political parties in the Riigikogu, and I have felt it. But I do not agree with this criticism, which you are saying, that we are now leaving the agricultural or rural sector completely out of focus or out of focus in this difficult situation. All right, you're right. Let's say that this number is 2,000, like you said. Whether it's 500 or it's 600, it's at least 25%. I say once again that two weeks ago we were in a situation where 0% was at issue, and now it has, in any case, become better. We cannot get over or around what I already said to you in the context of the previous question, that the people of Estonia will also be unemployed. I am absolutely convinced that some people turn to work to have bread on the table, to the agricultural sector, for example, to work at the end of the summer, not to mention the time of the harvest, which will remain at the end of the summer and autumn. There is a very small step in this same budget, but a step towards half a million euros for replacement farmers, if approved by the Riigikogu, has been written in here. It also supports this sector in one way or the other. And now I come to the biggest support, the support of the Rural Promotion Foundation, the support of the MES, which is EUR 200 million. This is not going to Tallinn or Tartu Town Hall Square; it is going to promote Estonian rural life; it is going to our agricultural sector, the rural sector, be it a working loan, be it a guarantee. This is very, very important to our farmers. EUR 200 million, well it is no longer half a million, it is a large amount, it is serious aid. It is in the package of crisis measures that we have set out to support our agricultural and rural sectors.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U42	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U43	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! I don't have three hours to give you, but use your three minutes to answer me. On the first question, you started talking about how the mask must become a social norm. It's not you to say, I don't want to hear it from you. I've heard that, but the government doesn't set social standards. And on the other hand, you started talking about how allies should be helped. You gotta help me, but I don't want to hear it either. I didn't ask for it. I asked about the situation that social media is raging about. There are two news side by side. On the one hand, you say and your party minister also says that masks should not be worn by everyone because they do not have enough. On the other hand, the news is that we give masks to our allies. I'm not gonna argue with either of the news, I asked you how you got into this kind of communication and how you guys would get out of it. People are upset because they don't have enough crazy messages for themselves, but we give them to others. We're breaking allies with it. People think it is necessary to be stingy and jealous of those who are actually our friends and are still protecting us in the air. On the other hand, you talk like I don't know who you teach, how people have to behave. It's not government business. I'm talking about this mood created by two seemingly controversial news. Please comment!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U44	Thank you, dear Jürgen Ligi. You don't have to listen to me and hear me. It's entirely your right. Does a member of the Government of the Republic have any right to say anything to you, a member of the Riigikogu? We have separation of powers, and if you don't like it, it doesn't suit you, it's understandable. I'm sticking to my position, I'm sticking to what I'm saying. I think the mask must be in Estonian society when there is a virus outbreak, a social norm. Anyway, I think so. I will also stick to this saying, which actually fully agrees with your question, at least one half. If our allies need help, they must be helped. You're absolutely right. Italy, as well as Spain, when we take these two countries, both have made air security. They've both made air security from this very Ämari. Yeah, that's right. In any case, we will help them as much as we can. What you want to play out here, as I understand it, is: if one member of the government says there aren't enough masks, but on the other hand we give them to our allies, then how does this communication work out? I have already answered Mrs Heljo Pikhof's question on this point and said that there really is not enough masks for everyone right now. It's true that stores don't have all the masks. But thanks to the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, which, as far as I know, has also worked with TalTech, Tallinn University of Technology, we have developed the ability to produce protective masks. The mask can also be made by hand at home, and as far as I know, many people have already done so in my own case. So I wouldn't say communication is such that one argument somehow contradicts the other. That was said yesterday, in my opinion, when the National Broadcasting programme was 'Clean Mouth', including the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. It is true that there are not all masks, i.e. there are not as many of them as there is currently demand on the market. But people can put their own hands on them and do their own finger work to make these protective masks ready. So I'm not reading two different parallel messages in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U45	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U46	Next, Helmen Kütt asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I was very sympathetic when you answered the question of your fellow official Kaja Kallas, saying that human health is a priority and the public health aspect is important. I think so, too. The health aspect is certainly essential in dealing with the current emergency situation, but there are diseases other than this evil virus. I am thinking of the concern of people suffering from severe chronic diseases, the planned treatment and the postponement of surgery for an indefinite period. Unfortunately, there have also been concerns about young children with rare diseases for whom the diagnosis has been delayed. The question would be this: have you considered and analyzed whether more EMOs have been converted? In fact, it's all more expensive for the country, not to mention the person, but more dangerous for the person, because his further recovery is at great risk. At the same time, we cannot exclude people who are in their daily cares, i.e. at home with chronic diseases, taking painkillers and sticking to the government's recommendation to be at home, but their health is deteriorating. As the family doctors spoke at the Social Affairs Committee, we will also face a health crisis after the end of the virus restrictions, because then the waiting lists may be longer, people's illnesses may be more serious and therefore there may be casualties.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U48	Thank you very much for this question, Mrs Helmen Küttt. I begin by saying that when I answered the question of the member of the Riigikogu, Mrs Kaja Kallas, I said that I think that access to medical care should also be one of the indicators. I said separately that this should certainly be the issue of the EMOs, the issue of primary care and the issue of access to specialised doctors. In answer to your question as to whether there is an overview of the planned treatment, we know how it has been stopped in most of the places. Of course, when we are talking about planned treatment, people will be given assistance in the case of very serious diseases such as cancer or cardiovascular diseases. There are some hospitals that currently offer planned help maybe a little more, but these are very few hospital network development plans hospitals. The question was whether there was an overview. Yeah, there's a review. As I said, I have been in contact with the head of the North Estonian Regional Hospital several times and I know that they have always offered as much treatment as possible. Indeed, as I mentioned, there are many of their daily contacts, and there are hundreds of them, and they have gone to the video bridge. If a person in any corner of Estonia is unwell and in critical condition, he or she must call an ambulance. The ambulance will be there anyway, because the ambulance will have to continue its work. And the ambulance will continue its work. I have spoken to both ambulance drivers, both in the southern and northern regions, I will try to do this at least once a week, and they have also given me an overview that not only do COVID-19 trips but also do other trips. I also said at the beginning of Question Time that, in my opinion, the first step to exit should be to restore scheduled treatment. This should be one of the first steps. I have asked the COVID-19 committee of Dr Arkadi Popov and the Head of Health Insurance Fund for Friday to discuss these steps on how we are going to restore planned treatment, because this picture, which today shows readiness for COVID-19 in Estonian hospitals, is a strong message. But we can see that our medicine has managed quite well, and in fact, in many places, beds are empty. This means that planned assistance needs to be restored. That's what Dr. Ralf Allikvee said yesterday on the very show I mentioned earlier that we should actually get more pictures of the planned treatment. Answer: In any case, this is the focus and these steps must be taken in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U49	Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U50	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for your answer. My question is about restoring the planned work of private clinics and practices. We all know that the decision taken by the Health Board a few weeks ago to suspend scheduled treatment outside the national hospital network raised many questions among service providers, as well as legal disputes between authorities, as well as those who had already registered for admission. Today there was also a medical news story that the strategy for restoring planned work was being discussed. And the medical news said the restrictions were still in force. Private clinics or private practice have also received a letter from the Estonian Health Insurance Fund stating that the provision of outpatient services as a distance reception is allowed, despite the organisation of the Health Board on 26 March to stop providing scheduled assistance. Such a letter has gone to the partners. It also points out that administrative activities such as cancellation of time or postponement of a visit are not equivalent to the provision of distance reception services and are not remunerated. These people work not on a bounty basis, but on a volume and visit basis. This means that not all services can be provided via a television bridge. If the doctor makes a decision, he or she must deal with the medical history, listen to the person, but he or she cannot report it to the health insurance fund, while the hospitals on the national network are very well funded. I'm not saying it's wrong, but it's a question of unequal treatment for those specialised doctors who work in private practice. What is the basis for this? The Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out that this decision should not actually have been made by the Health Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U51	Thank you. If you don't mind, I'll answer that first question with one or two sentences, which directly concerns the planned treatment. I want to give certainty here to Estonian medical institutions and hospitals. These things that are being done, I mean the expenses due to the COVID-19, you should have an extra budget today, are the decisions that a pretty large volume, over 200 million will go in addition to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. There is also compensation for the hospital's crisis costs, so that hospitals do not have to, if they return to a normal situation, say that now we do not have enough money. I think it's very important that the money be there. I promise that I will discuss the question you raised on Friday about private clinics and private practices, as both Dr Popov and the Health Insurance Fund will be there. At the moment, however, I can rely on the statement of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, which reads as follows: 'If we are talking about scheduled treatments, remote receptions, e-consultation and unavoidable dental care, private medical care is not currently available under the same conditions as normal situations, but people will not be left without the necessary help. ' And scheduled specialist medical care is available in three ways in emergency situations, as you said yourself, by telephone or at remote receptions or by video call. Patients with more serious medical conditions will be invited to the appointment or delayed and a new medical appointment will be offered to the patient. Well, I basically quoted this morning, as far as I know, Rain Laane, head of the Health Insurance Fund, was in Hellovision, and there he shared that information. But private practice and private medical assistance, about which you asked me, I understand that this letter goes against the authorities or authorities of another state. I don't have these letters with me right now, but I promise I'll take them. If, on Friday, the head of the health insurance fund and I are discussing the restoration of the planned treatment, I will also put it on the table. So thank you for raising this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U52	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U53	Thank you. Prime Minister! I thank you for your previous answers, but you did not really answer my second question. Not all people know how to sew. It's not like you're sewing up the mask and dating it for three months. In fact, the mask should be changed several times a day. Now, when it comes to the lack of masks, why does the state not involve all interested economic operators and do not tax incentives for those who import masks? At present, the duty will be increased by 6,5%, plus 20% VAT. It is alleged that the customs authorities are holding the airport for a simple day, as all masks are subject to special checks. And I also asked whether, according to information from the European Commission, primary personal protective equipment should be exempt from tax. In fact, even if we did not tax these simple masks, they would be more affordable for people. The masks would be more accessible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U54	Thank you. There's a person standing in front of you who doesn't know how to sew that mask. So there are really such things in Estonian society. I'm sure I'd be in trouble with that. But I believe I'm not the majority, but I'm also a hard minority in the ability to sew this mask. In what you're saying, you're absolutely right, you can't just sew a mask and walk it off for days, not to mention weeks in a row. Of course, it's not conceivable at all. There are, as I have told you, specific requirements as to how closely it needs to be exchanged. You can also wash certain masks. Now, when you say that customs is holding something, there is definitely one aspect that may be, although I do not know specifically what this example was about, just as Indrek Saar said that supervision must be carried out. After all, several ministers from the government office, such as Kaimar Karu, have dealt with the issue of companies who have sought out Estonian entrepreneurs who could produce personal protective equipment. I myself have talked to an entrepreneur across Estonia who could produce personal protective equipment, and Jaak Aab has also done so. But mostly we have decided, really, that the proposals of Estonian entrepreneurs will be collected by Kaimar Karu. We see that there are actually companies in Estonia that can produce masks up to the mask of FFP3. And that's what we've been implementing. They've been signed. Now your question about whether we can make tax incentives. I will elaborate on this issue of tax incentives as to how they have or have not been implemented, and I will then let you know by e-mail. I will also look at the aspect of the European Commission that you have highlighted in your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U55	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U56	Next, Marko Mihkelson asks and answers Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U57	Thank you. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, There's no harm without good. I think that the current pandemic has revealed one of the brightest success stories of Estonia's long-term foreign policy. I think a lot of Estonian governments have worked over the last few decades to ensure that Estonia's reputation as a digital state and as an e-state in the world can attract attention and confirm it in many parts of the world. I believe that we can safely say today that the world has, as if, caught up with Estonia and felt what Skype is worth, what value it is when our people know how to do digitally, and how easy it is to actually keep society functioning when we are hit by crises like the one we are going through. This has been seen and recognised by a number of international media channels, such as CNN, the New York Times and many others, who have spontaneously set Estonia an example for many other countries. I very much hope that these individual statements from some members of our government in recent weeks or months, if either the nature of the work of Estonian technology companies has been properly taken or the credibility and credibility of the e-state and e-elections are questioned, will remain there, and it will still be understood in the future which branch will be cut in doing so. But here's my question to the minister. Business diplomacy is also a very important area of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As Estonian entrepreneurs expect to exit from this crisis situation and we are very dependent on what is happening on foreign markets, please tell us what is the current action plan in the field of business diplomacy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to support our entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U58	Thank you. This is one of the central tasks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I fully share the view that Estonia now has the opportunity to convey the message of global digital technology more actively in the world and to open doors to the export of Estonian IT companies in this field. We will have a global group of states meeting tomorrow in the transport of the French and German Foreign Ministers, where I will certainly be addressing this issue. I have also asked my colleagues to put together some appeals at global level, given that Estonia will be the chairman of the Security Council in May, as well as at the level of the European Union, where we are also going to make proposals with certain group countries. There are three key issues in the State Department's view. Firstly, to advise and assist businesses on the need for new products in the export environment created in this crisis environment. Secondly, it is undoubtedly a search for new markets. Here, our view is also focused on Asia. We have taken the decision that we certainly do not reduce the proportion, but that we consider it necessary, in the medium term, to increase the proportion that is the capacity of foreign economic diplomacy that we started to develop in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from last year, especially towards Asia. And I certainly consider it also important, thirdly, that development cooperation in the fight against this pandemic in international organisations, but also in the European Union's activities, so that private operators are also very closely involved in these development cooperation projects, namely digital projects. That is why I have proposed to the European Union's development aid ministers that there should be one single platform for cooperation between projects, with which, as is practical, Estonian entrepreneurs could also be involved. And I am pleased that a number of other Member States of the European Union have expressed their support for this initiative. So undoubtedly the primary task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is consular assistance to our people in this crisis. Another challenge has been to obtain information from other countries on the acute crisis response and comparable measures to be taken, as well as the acquisition of personal protective equipment. The third objective is, of course, to support Estonian entrepreneurship, which is the next phase of this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U59	Marko Mihkelson, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U60	Yes, thank you! I also take this opportunity to turn to our diplomats in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, who have worked very hard to help our citizens return home from different corners of the world. Their work, of course, will continue to be crucial in this area, which I have just asked about, in order to ensure and exploit Estonia's opportunities in this international changing environment. But one very important central tent of Estonian foreign policy has still been the principle 'Never again alone'. We also discussed this issue yesterday in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. A number of joint declarations by countries in the middle of this pandemic have been without Estonia. For objective and subjective reasons, we have become, once again, an island in the European Union. And I think we should think very seriously about how it works in the interests of our security, our economic security. I very much doubt that a small Estonia could manage without the support of its closest partners and allies. My question, Minister, is this: what is your action in foreign policy now, precisely towards the European partners, to confirm that our actions are based on the 'Never again alone' principle?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U61	Thank you. Estonia has been very active in this crisis not only at European level, but also at global level. On the initiative of Estonia, there was a debate last week in the Security Council on the impact of the corona virus on international peace and security. We certainly intend to raise this issue during the Estonian Presidency in May, including by listening to the periodic secretary-general. No, I am not satisfied with this diagnosis that Estonia is somehow an island in this crisis, separately. Of course, countries are physically isolated from restrictions in the interests of public health, also within the European Union, but this does not mean that there is really no solidarity with each other. Jürgen Ligi was somewhat ironic here or criticised this statement that Estonia was indeed prepared to provide assistance in the form of personal protective equipment to NATO and the partner of the European Union in the most acute crisis. What I want to say is that it is based on the same decision that we are not alone and that we are not treating our strategic friends as alone either in this crisis or in other crises. I had a conversation with both the Spanish and the Italian Foreign Minister last night, and I can assure you that both my colleagues passed on thanks to the Estonian people and said that their peoples will never forget! The support that Estonia provided at the moment of the crisis. Of course, all the countries with personal protective equipment are in a tight spot, but in this situation, as the Estonian Presidency of the Nordic and Baltic States, I have called a meeting of foreign ministers to launch a consular assistance network and help each other's citizens return on evacuation flights. We gave each other help, and in the broad sense, many Estonian people have had the opportunity to return to Estonia on evacuation flights. To a large extent, the project covers nearly 600000 citizens of the European Union who are behind national borders. As regards Estonia's proposal to deal with this crisis as well, the Councils or video meetings, as they are mildly called at the level of heads of government and heads of state, have made concrete proposals on behalf of our government, on behalf of the Estonian state. On behalf of Estonia, I have made proposals both at the ministerial meeting of development aid in the European Union and at the meeting of foreign ministers, which specifically concern the more effective and uniform implementation of crisis mechanisms. So Estonia has been awakened by this crisis to contribute to resolving the crisis together with the partner countries. And a very important strategic perspective for us as NATO's eastern border country, when, of course, for a small country, the dynamics are in the security balances that are emerging in this crisis environment. We will monitor it closely. I hope that, in the near future, I will be able to introduce both the Riigikogu Foreign Affairs Committee and the Government to the view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about these risks, but also the possibilities, because in all the risks, as you pointed out in the previous question, there will certainly be opportunities, which we as a small country must take into account as a member of our international value-based community. The fact that Estonia is working with its allies in this crisis is indeed a thousand times more necessary than perhaps at some so-called peacetime moment. We do this and we do it responsibly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U62	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U63	Thank you. I hope that you will now apologize for what you said at my address, as if I had been ironic about helping the allies. On the contrary, I was critical because the government was unable to communicate why it was necessary to help allies. But I am also critical of you because you have allowed yourself a great many general statements with great emphasis on national interests. It's such a destructive foreign policy rhetoric. Although everyone knows that everyone is out for their own interests, it still needs to be presented as an interest in cooperating. And Estonia is the first to lose if Europe is fragmented in both material and security terms. We cannot produce most of the things ourselves, even this, and therefore I very much welcome the fact that the government had enough sense to help the allies. Now that we have heard that you still have these plans, please tell us how you can convince your coalition mates, who have already made angry statements on the very subject of masks, how Estonia must not give anything away, although obviously we ourselves buy in almost everyone on the outside. If everyone had claws towards them, Estonia would be the first to have weather. Our production capacity on the ground is very limited, although now we may be able to adapt it a little. Please tell me how you feel as Foreign Minister, whether the government is unanimous. In this context, how do you explain the angry voices of both the European Parliament and this Parliament against helping the allies? How can you convince your coalition partners that there is a need to help?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U64	Thank you. As regards the issue of obtaining personal protective equipment for the Estonian people, I can say that I personally have done so and that Estonian diplomats have cooperated with other countries. It is not the case that we also obtain the funds that we bring from any country, somehow emptiness. The Foreign Ministers of our region have personally instructed their diplomats to assist our diplomats on cooperation in order to obtain background information on which economic operators or contracting authorities are presumed to be of high quality or which do not encounter payment or supply problems. There's nothing weird about that. I am pleased that you have corrected your attitude and have indeed said that it is reasonable that we give this help to our allies. There is no doubt that the government is not responsible for any titles or conclusions that you are trying to make. Now, does the government have any idea that we're willing to produce or do everything ourselves? No, of course, no one pursues such an autistic approach. In today's highly connected international economic network, this cannot be imagined, nor is it a government position. Of course, countries need to cooperate. And, of course, I am not in any way opposed to the cooperation of national interests that countries have. All countries also come from this crisis, which is a public health crisis, that, of course, the vital interest is to bear in mind the health interests of their own people. This undoubtedly also reflects the limitations imposed by the countries of the European Union and the countries of the world in general. Looking at how we have an exit strategy, the European Commission has now made its recommendations for the development of an exit strategy, but its focus is on calling on countries to coordinate. However, the focus of these recommendations by the European Commission is also that countries bear responsibility for their citizens and implement the measures they consider necessary to protect their people's health. There's nothing unusual about it. There is no point in contrasting national interests or cooperation between countries here, no, there is no contradiction. The national interest of Estonia is to stand up for its people, to stand up for its country, to stand up for the security of its country, to stand up for the survival and future of its people. But one of the elements of national interest is, of course, that we cooperate with the countries of the world in a mutually beneficial way and by supporting each other with our countries of similar value.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U65	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U66	Next, Katri Raik asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U67	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good Prime Minister! You have spoken several times today about the exit strategy. Understandably, health issues, medical matters and economic issues are important. It seems to me that the people of Estonia need one big positive view of the future. Are you of the same opinion that this strategy should have such a long, beautiful view of the future? As Prime Minister, I'm sure you have your own keywords that could describe this vision for the future or what it might be about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U68	Thank you. I certainly don't want to sound pathetic here now, but I think it's pretty Estonian when we have, as you say, one step or one goal. Sometimes we give a little bit more thrust and let's say what the three goals are. But if you said one, I would answer so that this one is linked to the health of the Estonian people. I think that's the most important thing. After all, throughout this crisis, we have built on the fact that we are maintaining all these measures, restrictions and inconveniences. I read that Eesti Pank here, I do not know whether it upsets or states the fact that you see, every day, when the restrictions last, the economy falls. As I said, and I have used this example several times in this Question Time, that I would like to remove all restrictions immediately before you, end the emergency situation and say that we are going on with a normal life. But if we look out this window or look around in here, look at the 10:00 figures this morning, I can't say it. I do not think we are even in the stabilisation phase. So, yeah, if we get out of here anyway so that we can keep our people healthy and, unfortunately, I have to say this to keep our people alive, as much as possible, because I can't say that all lives are fine. Statistics at 10 o'clock this morning show that 34 people in Estonia have had to leave their lives because of COVID-19. A great deal of sympathy for those people's loved ones and families! I think it is important that we get out of the crisis that I respond a little bit longer if you allow us to do what will happen to our people's ability to return to normal life. If health is the first, then the next step is how we return to normal life. Perhaps the potential impact of restrictions on people's income, unemployment, education and day-to-day living must be mitigated; support must be given to the livelihood, competitiveness and recovery of our businesses, market discovery, export and innovation; of course, to ensure the functioning of society and the state in order to maintain the necessary level of supply of vital goods and services and to increase people's readiness to comply with the constraints of emergency situations; and also to prevent conflicts in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U69	Katri Raik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U70	Good Prime Minister! The Prime Minister, as we know, bears responsibility for his entire office. You are a remarkably good team player, a great credit to you for that! You commended your Minister of Education and Science earlier. However, I cannot fully agree with you here. Unfortunately, the statement made by the Minister for Education and Research that school life would partially recover in the middle of May caused a great deal of confusion about the fact that when children go to school, they can still go out together at night, etc. The Committee on Culture has asked the Minister for Education and Research to see him at the beginning of this week. Unfortunately, it is not known if the minister will come. The Social Democrats approached the Minister of Education with an inquiry on 3 April. On 7 April, the Minister of Education announced that he would come on May 18. Even according to the Home and Working Procedures Act, there is a certain question as to whether it is 20, 21 or 22 days of sitting. However, in such an emergency, it is quite understandable that the Minister could come to answer as soon as possible on the whole issue concerning society. You yourself have once again applied this principle of great recognition to you for it! However, can you also tell the members of your office that they can still find a way to answer questions early, as soon as possible? These questions are not the result of the opposition's tantrum, but are the questions of the Estonian people. Clarity will enable us to cope better with the emergency situation. I am thinking of both home education and all that with regard to graduating from classes 9 and 12, this is the competence of the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U71	Thank you. First of all, answer your question whether I can pass on to the members of the government that they should come as soon as possible to answer the vocations of the Riigikogu, be it a political group, a committee or a member of the Riigikogu. Of course I can, I'm sure I'll pass on what you asked for. But I want to pick up where I left off when we talked about the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. I will continue to think of it in order to be in a situation where he has to deal with the current situation, not only in relation to coronavir and COVID-19 disease, but in relation to the topics at the end of the academic year, it is very difficult. I think Mailis has done a very good job. Very good work. On the one hand, there is great pressure to let us know when the final exams are, when the 12th grade can be completed. On the other hand, there is pressure when the so-called e-school or distance education ends so that children can get to school again. Both ways, the pressure in society is very, very strong, we all know that. We have said that the prerequisite for returning to normal learning is to ensure the safety of students. That is what the Minister of Education and Science has said, and I will sign here with two hands in full. Children can only be admitted to school if it is safe for them. Professor Irja Lutsar was also discussed yesterday, and in fact we will twice appreciate this aspect of 15 May: on 28 April and 5 May, both should be Tuesday days. All the decisions taken in these steps are very strongly reflected in the principle of safety: if the virus outbreak subsides and this picture allows it. If I don't, I won't. Now, here it was said about the field of education, when we take the opinions of virologists or medical representatives, many say that the school is not directly involved in this. This is the place with the minimum chance of infection among young people. It came out of that mouth clean show last night. However, I think that opening schools means getting a lot of additional contacts ♪ parents take their children to school, teachers come to school, there are also parents and older, more experienced teachers. So this is a much wider subject. Therefore, I think that the school as we mean in normal circumstances, let us be honest, will not recover during this academic year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U72	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I come back to my previous question. Indeed, my question was very detailed, but the details are due to the fact that everything about personal protective equipment is also very important and, as I have already said, clarity is needed. Perhaps it is very welcome if you can answer me in writing, but actually I also have a suggestion that you include this chapter, which includes an overview of the personal protective equipment purchased and everything I have brought in my letter, as well as information about the daily overview you will send to the members of the Riigikogu in the future. If you make it so that there's a chronology that makes it easier to follow every day or every week, you don't have to ask these questions here, and this information will come running. But the most important thing I really wanted to hear about this question is whether the protective equipment that the country has acquired has been certified, controlled and meets the requirements they have to meet, so that their carriers can take into account that they are as safe as they are allowed to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U74	Thank you. First of all, if it's all right with you, I'm asking the Minister of Public Administration to contact you every hour and every minute with personal protective equipment. If that's okay, I'm asking him to answer you. If it doesn't work, tell me it doesn't work, and then it does. Now the second theme is to start giving information every day. Yes, I do give the members of the Riigikogu an overview every day, but you want to have a table of personal protective equipment on-line. I don't think it makes any sense, it's not conceivable, and I certainly can't afford that here in front of you. Just to give you that overview once a week, yeah. But every day, all the nursing homes, all the hospitals, how many are in one warehouse, how many are in another warehouse, how many masks are coming, what masks are ordered, where the planes are, well, with this logistics, you probably have nothing to do. I don't think that's gonna add anything to your daily work. But once a week to give such an overview of personal protective equipment, of course, that is not the problem. If you agree, I would ask that Mr Aab try to contact you today, if that is all right with you, and give you an overview of personal protective equipment. Now, the other part of your question. Are these personal protective equipment ordered by the State in accordance with all standards, quality levels, etc.? I have given an example of what the Minister for Public Administration has said here about textiles or material on the interior of this mask, which has increased by thousands of percentages. With these personal protective equipment, I think it's the King's eye today. If this plane has landed here, if this package is open, then of course the state will tell you if it answered the order or didn't respond. And of course the state will. In any case, the state will do so and will verify that all the masks we have ordered also meet these quality requirements and criteria. That's definitely what we're gonna do. I also want to say here in the PPE debate that I am extremely grateful to several private companies and private companies in Estonia who have shown initiative and have brought quality personal protective equipment into Estonia using their channels. So I would also like to say thanks to the Estonian private sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U75	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. You can talk to the Minister after the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U76	The next registered question is No 8. Artist Heidy Purga and respondent Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U77	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! Distance learning has now been going on in Estonian schools since 16 March. People in the field of education have made a great deal of effort to change the organisation of education in schools. Teachers work harder than ever. All of us have also made great efforts in our home, especially the parents of first - grade children who do their utmost to cope with their assignments under special circumstances and to help their children along with it. Single parents are in a very bad situation. We all work hard, and in this situation we have made the most of ourselves, such as teachers, children, and parents. That's what I want to talk about. Looking at the messages that both the Minister of Education and Research and the Ministry, more generally, have sent out in the last week, they, to put it mildly, are very confusing. There is no doubt that the HTM is in a difficult situation, but do you know what the Minister of Education and Research has in mind? Last weekend, for example, Minister Mailis Reps mentioned that from 15 May work in schools will gradually begin, then in smaller groups. Yesterday, however, the Ministry announced that, once the emergency requirements were relaxed, the schools would no longer receive classic hourly distance training. Can you comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U78	Yeah, thanks! This issue has already been discussed several times in Question Time today. I fully understand your question, because education life is certainly not an area that affects a very large part of the Estonian population. I fully agree with you about the situation at the beginning of your question that this so-called distance learning, i.e. learning using video bridges and different e-solutions, has been very tense and certainly called for very many solutions. You pointed out to both students and teachers, but I believe you agree with me that there is also a mother-father side. I myself know that there are a lot of grandfather-grandmothers who sit with their children, help them with their assignments, and try to make a full contribution to their education. I also agree with what you said about the Ministry of Education and Research and about the Minister, this situation is very difficult. On the one hand, we are facing a very complex disease, COVID-19. Society doesn't know this disease, doesn't know the world, doesn't know the best doctors. Point one, we don't know how he's acting. Point two is that we have an emergency situation for the first time until 1 May. Looking at the numbers this morning, we see that, for example, the number of people in hospital care is still at 150, the number of people in intensive care continues to be at 10, and the number of positive tests is actually increasing, so it was 29 positive today. Now, what you're asking me about is what's coming out of the Ministry of Education and Science. I think now we need to give some time until these messages are finally written. But it is clear that even if the outbreak allows for some sort of restoration of education on 15 May, I would stress once again that there must have been a situation in which we can say that this viral outbreak allows it. As I have said before, on 28 April and 5 May, we will appreciate this, in cooperation with the Scientific Council, in our COVID-19 Committee on Government. Such school life certainly does not return to normal school life. It won't be 1:00 in the morning. Class kids, I don't know, on a bus or on a bicycle or walking to a school where classes take place. There will certainly be no such end of the academic year as the end of the ordinary year. In particular, I believe that attention should be focused on the 12th grade in the case of those who graduate from school. It has also been said that on 29 May, the Estonian language and the Estonian language as the second language will be a written exam, 1. On June 5th, the second language of Estonian will be the oral exam and the mathematics exam. I think the most important thing right now is the 12th grade aspect. But the fact that we're all coming together again, all parallel classes and classes, definitely won't come at the end of this academic year. I'm sorry I went over time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U79	Heidy Purga, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U80	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. Thank you very much for your answer, Prime Minister. Can you describe the situation that arises from May 15th, especially in these families and with those children who are not graduates? We've got a situation where there's no more scheduled training and you can't go to school. Does the Ministry have a strategic plan or a flexible solution to offer you in the meantime?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U81	Thank you. Yeah, there's a plan. If, after 15 May, I stress that I hope you will understand me, if I insist all the time on this sentence, both in front, in the middle and at the end, this evil disease COVID-19 will allow all this to happen. We don't know today what the situation is, say, exactly a month from now. If this outbreak allows it to do so, perhaps it will ease and soften when these different indicators, which have been so much talked about today, start to fall, then we can say the following things. We leave out this 12th grade procedure to assess the progress of students in teaching during distance learning, to assist students who did not qualify for distance learning, if necessary, and to see where shortcomings have arisen. Project training must be organised, whether to solve problems requiring reading, research or testing, and developmental discussions must also be carried out, as well as a summary of the academic year. So this is all, I think, a pretty big job. We have to say that during this period of distance learning, Estonian education has been left uncontacted or the lost circuit of a thousand students. I think that this, too, is one very important aspect from 15 May onwards, everything must be done to make sure that this school, this class manager, this teacher can get in touch with the student and get in touch with the parents of this student. Now on, as I said, contact training in schools after 15 May is rather exceptional and, above all, intended for really 12th grade students or graduates and 9th grade graduates who need to undertake attempts at upper secondary school, as well as for students in need. Surely we must also say that there will be no major events at the end of this academic year, such as final tours, shows or inter-school competitions. Basic education shall be completed on the basis of annual grades. And if the school finds that the student's load is too high, then the ninth grade can be completed without creative work. These are some of the approaches that the Ministry of Education and Research and the Minister have already put on paper by now. I think it's a pretty specific road map or a roadway, but, of course, everything will be more specific in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U82	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I cannot agree with what you are saying that the Minister for Education and Science has acted in a very adequate and informed manner with society. His messages have clearly caused confusion. Sometimes experts say that if you have already said something, it would be wise to take a little break and then say something again. But if there's a message at first that 15th schools will be opened partially, but in the next sentence or the next day, basically it's said that it's the end of the school, then it's clear that parents, teachers and school leaders are confused. It was quite interesting to see an "Actual Camera" interview where Mrs Reps spoke on the same subject. After the interview was taken from the director of the English College who said he didn't know what Mailis Reps' plan was. Perhaps, in fact, by looking at the letters and addresses that have been received to us as well as the discussions in our Committee on Culture, it seems that the possible plans or options are not discussed with or introduced to interested parties in such a way that they could reflect something in return. But they're already sending messages to the public like it's some sort of final option. Please tell me who is ultimately responsible for this activity. Virologist Andres Merits also said that opening schools in this way is quite dangerous for the health indication. Whose advice has the Honorable Minister listened to?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U84	Thank you. Once again, I'd rather be very careful with what you say. When it comes to schools alone, I do not believe that there are very many scientific approaches to the specific impact of the opening or closure of schools on this outbreak in one direction or another. If you have a scientific approach, give it to me. Rather, it is the sense that when schools are closed, a very large part of society's life is paused, stopped, people's contacts take place much less. As I said here in answer to a question, parents do not take children to school, teachers do not come there. So we're reducing the number of close contacts. I think it's been the right way. You said that the director of the English College in the live studio, I think you're talking about national broadcasting, didn't understand it or didn't understand it. Well, he's been a long time, I remember even from his own time, having also worked for a small municipality in education. I'm sure we can give him some more information. And we're gonna have to give you some more information. I communicate with local government leaders every day, and there are people in the field of education. Of course, they have some questions, that's understandable. But rather, it seems to me that this situation is being perceived. I understand you want the final document, Mr. Kruuse, and I understand. But please understand the government now. This final document is issued four weeks or even more, one month before, considering that we have a corona virus, COVID-19 disease, no that is currently not possible. Because we are not in a normal situation, we are in a situation that Europe has not seen since World War II. We're in a crisis situation, an emergency situation. Another option would have been to say that nothing is going on in this academic year. You quoted the news of national broadcasting here. I can quote, too. I remember a senior who said there that he really wanted to know when he could take the exams, that there was a need for specific messages about when those dates were. Another way is to say that there are no dates at all. And I stress once again, as I replied to Mrs Heidy Purga, a member of the Riigikogu, that this whole thing can only happen if we see that the outbreak of the virus begins to improve to some extent. If you don't, nothing can happen. So we are living today in a situation where it is unthinkable to give final answers on 15 April on 15 May. I'm so sorry, but no one can say that today. And what the HTM and the Minister have said is quite a concrete road map.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U85	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U86	Next, Signe Kivi will ask and will be answered again by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U87	Thank you, chairman of the meeting. Good Prime Minister! Even before the introduction of the emergency situation, Estonian society received conflicting information about the danger and spread of the corona virus. Unfortunately, the sharing of conflicting information has also continued now that society is waiting for signals to emerge from the crisis. Thus, on April 4, the Presidency of the Fatherland declared that mass testing should be started. The Minister of the Interior and Finance announced this weekend that the emergency situation would certainly be prolonged, but this was followed by your announcement that there is no decision. The Minister of Education expressed his opinion again, without consulting the faculty, so that schools could gradually be opened on 15 May. It is a good thing that you have convened a committee of scientists, because it is the top scientists in the various fields that have helped us to explain the spread of the epidemic, the scenarios and the health protection opportunities of everyone. It is good that a planning group has been set up to develop an exit plan. It is good that you have continued to confirm that wearing masks should become a social norm, even when wearing homemade masks. But over and over again, there are those who disapprove of this plan and sow misunderstanding. My question: how do you assess the government's current communication capacity in emergency situations? What measures are to be taken in the near future so that we are only equipped with clear messages and instructions in the Estonian public information space now and in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U88	Thank you. I will now try to respond to all the slices that were on the matter. First of all, I come back to the subject of education. I do not agree with this statement that nothing has been negotiated. I don't know that the Minister of Education and Science would have done it alone somewhere, so he didn't show anyone, and ran around the city with this document for others, I said that, you didn't say it, but I don't agree with it. People are also working in the Ministry of Education and Research, and since Mailis Reps has already been Minister of Education and Science for several times, I am quite convinced that he has negotiated with experts and specialists in the field of education. This pressure has been quite different for education. After all, it has been said that by the end of the first week of April, we should have a concrete plan. I'm looking at you here, Signe Stone, and frankly, there's no concrete plan or what happens that can be said by any virologist, any mathematician who makes these formulas, or any doctor during this outbreak. Take, for example, what we were alive in, I don't know, one and a half or two months ago, it was another Estonia, it was another Europe, it was another world. Unfortunately, we're in this situation. We are trying to do our best to really give those who have to make a very important decision in the educational landscape, I would say that maybe one of the most important decisions in life to go on learning, the sense that if the virus outbreak eases, they can take the final exams and go to study if they want to go to university, and they can make entrances to the professional school all summer. I know that the Minister of Education and Science has also negotiated with the Minister of Defence to provide some relief here, so that those who pass exams, not only final exams, but also entrance exams, can also look at the service more flexibly this time. These are particularly important topics for students. Now for strategic communication and communication. Communication is important, I agree with you, and, especially in the current situation, it is extremely important to give as much concrete, clear and as possible common positions. At the same time, here in the Riigikogu there are different political groups and different politicians, so is the government. After all, we are constantly reviewing the strategic messages that society should be given in relation to coronavir in order to discuss them, to argue about them, so that they are as specific and as clear as possible. But it is clear that it is not conceivable for all 15 ministers to sing one hundred percent in one rhythm, in one word. It's not necessary, it wouldn't even make sense. But, of course, the key messages have been very clear and concrete for the government throughout this crisis. I'm sorry I talked about education for so long.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U89	Thank you. I would like to thank my honourable colleagues and ministers. Today's Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U90	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday 11th working week. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? There is no wish for surrender. Then, ladies and gentlemen, we'll do a presence check. 78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23. Now, get your attention! Clarification of the agenda. Yesterday, we were in the middle of 170 discussions on the draft law amending the Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, where the rapporteur of the Commission answered questions from members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U91	I now ask Andrei Korobenik to continue to answer the questions in this chair. Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Heljo Pikhof and Urve Tiidus were registered yesterday to ask questions. Valdo Randpere was registered to participate in the negotiations. Okay, we can continue. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U92	In autumn 2019, the Minister of Education Reps came up with a proposal to abolish the national exams of primary school and upper secondary school in the framework of the cluster bill. The Riigikogu Committee on Culture rejected Reps' proposal in autumn. Now, taking advantage of the special situation established, the Minister of Education Reps put the same proposal back into the bill. The Riigikogu Committee on Culture also now brought interest groups on the subject, worked 20 hours and decided to reject the proposal. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Committee on Culture is the committee responsible in this area and that it is the majority of the members of the coalition parties. Why is the Minister of Education Reps trying to push his personal interest through using the emergency situation and government power? And now the question to the rapporteur is: did you have any recommendations before the Committee on Legal Affairs to reject the amendment tabled by the Committee on Culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U93	Thank you for your question. No, I have not been recommended by anyone before the Commission meeting to reject the Committee on Culture's proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In Question Time, the Prime Minister was asked, but he did not have the courage to admit that you were simply under the pressure of the EKRE in the coalition, and that is why farmers are not getting the full solution they really need. In the current situation, the Council of Europe has also made it very clear that agricultural workers need special treatment. That would be one way. But, in fact, it is completely unclear why the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs stated in the Committee on Legal Affairs that the Committee on Rural Affairs would agree with the proposal of this coalition. In fact, the Committee on Rural Affairs made a very clear recommendation to allow migrant workers to work in agriculture until the end of the season.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U95	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U96	Thank you. I see that... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U97	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U98	I am unfortunately unable to comment on the comments made by the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, but personally, of course, I generally agree that the labour situation can become critical and not only in agriculture, but also in other sectors. That decision was a deal. The Committee on Legal Affairs supported such a compromise solution, and so it is easy to support those amendments that received more votes in favour and against.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U99	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U100	Good Commissioner, good Andrei! I would like to ask you to clarify the matters relating to education, which the Committee on Culture sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs. I understand that there were essentially different nuances, but eight broadly similar amendments. In the end, Amendment 24 was accepted, but with similar content, the amendment proposed by the Committee on Culture, the Socialists and the Reform Party, partly by the Committee on Legal Affairs. I do not quite understand why the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs has been fully taken into account, but the proposal of the Committee on Culture has not been taken into account, the proposal of the Socialists has not been taken into account and the proposal of the Reform Party has been partially taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U101	Thank you. The reason lies here in the results of the vote. It was Amendment 24 that received more votes in favour than against. As far as partial consideration is concerned, this is due to the fact that, if one amendment is supported and if there is another, a similar amendment which partly overlaps with it, the other one has been partially taken into account and does not even have to be voted on in that case. For example, in the case of duplicative amendments, the first shall be voted and the second shall be taken into account in full or in substance. It is simply a procedure for voting in the Committee on Legal Affairs. However, the debate on this issue was actually very thorough; it took me at least an hour if my memory did not deceive me of that six and a half hour. However, this was the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U102	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U103	Yes, thank you! My question is driven by the question of my colleague, Mrs Šmigun-Vähi. You answered him that no one has given you a recommendation to vote in any other way. Now, we are here in the Riigikogu divided into committees, and each committee has its own competence. Education issues fall within the competence of the Committee on Culture. For what reasons did the Committee on Legal Affairs reject the proposal of a committee specialised in this field, the Committee on Culture? Why wasn't it counted?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U104	Thank you. Representatives from the Riigikogu and government took part in this discussion. The chairman of the Committee on Culture and the Minister for Education took part as guests in the committee, and this was the result of a joint debate. As my fellow Members mentioned earlier, some amendments were actually quite similar, and such a compromise solution was supported, Amendment 24. I had the impression that all parties were quite satisfied with this in essence, as opposition ambassadors made similar proposals. The Minister of Education confirmed that his request was similar, and the chairman of the Committee on Culture did not agree that the Committee on Legal Affairs would do something very wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U105	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, My question comes about § 17 concerning the amendment of the Law on the Prevention and Control of Diseases. We are dealing here with a bill called the law amending the law and other laws, but, looking at what is said in brackets, we are very clearly focusing on the COVID-19 disease. The amendment of the Infectious Disease Prevention and Control Act refers to emergency situations, emergency situations and martial law. Today we are talking about an emergency situation because we have COVID-19, as the title says. The question concerns medical certificates. We know that medical certificates are necessary for people who process food, drinking water, work in nursing homes, kindergartens. The person here has to confirm himself that he is healthy, that he does not suffer from infectious diseases. But a person may not know that. We already know that 200 nursing homes or institutions in 20 are infected, and the people who work there with a.. have not been aware of this. When new people come, I don't talk about those whose certificate has expired and is going to work in a care establishment, isn't it to open the door to bring infection to the most vulnerable? I'm sorry I'm out of time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U106	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U107	Thank you. In the case of medical certificates, there was a debate on relief police officers, and we asked for the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior. They explained the situation to us in the Commission. This debate was not very long, but was quite substantive. Amendment 15 was not supported by the Commission as the issue of medical certificates continues after the end of the emergency situation and, in part, the problem of testing has been solved, according to the official. Those who are in contact with the sick and need to be alert will be tested as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U108	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U109	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have a question for you regarding the organisation of the provision of victim support services during an emergency situation. You have made a small correction between the readings, I understand, and removed from the main text the wording referring to the interesting nepotism policy, which was originally written into it, that a person who is a grandparent, brother, sister, etc. of a supervising officer may also act as a volunteer. However, the principle remains that victim support may also be provided by a person who has not completed further training or the relevant subject. Looking at how it all started, it seems like somebody's trying to make someone happy. According to my information, industry organisations have confirmed that, should the need for victim support also increase by 30%, they still have sufficient capacity to do so. Why, then, is this area now being tried to make this law happy? Can you explain that to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U110	Thank you. I didn't exactly hear that question right now. If there's a little more silence in the hall, it's easier to understand what's inside. The reflection on this point, as well as on the point of the assistant police, was that, in today's situation, all needs would indeed have been met. But we do not know exactly how this situation will develop, and when the crisis gets deeper, we cannot be sure that we have enough people for one role or another. That is why these changes have been made. This also concerns the issue that you have now addressed. This debate was held in quite a similar way in the Commission on quite a number of points.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U111	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U112	I thank you for your answer. The Committee on Social Affairs also addressed this issue in its letter to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Actually, testing isn't in the law. If it were written into the law or stated in the explanatory memorandum, it does not say that it will be tested. I am not talking about relief policemen who come on the road to help and control and are in a mask, but I am talking about people who work in care facilities or childcare facilities, go to cooks, process food and drinking water. Those who are already working there and whose medical certificate has expired could accept it, the Committee on Social Affairs also drew attention to this. It's an emergency, a very difficult time, let them be. But those who just walk through the door can bring a virus with their hard-working hands that they do not know they are carrying, because they are not sick.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U113	Thank you for your opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U114	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U115	I'd like to come back to the subject of victim support. I understand that this is the way to assume all kinds of things and that, consequently, all rules and all qualification requirements could be abolished. During the debate in the Commission, did you also receive any expert opinion that the area itself believes that such an opportunity should be created and that any training that has so far been very much required could be reduced, or is it simply a proposal from the Ministry that we do it just in case? Can you name one of the organisations in this area that supported or wished for this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U116	Yes, thank you! For example, the Police and Border Guard Board, which is a state agency, has pointed out that the number of cases of domestic violence and the number of people in need has already increased, and their prediction is that if the situation goes on in the same way, this need may increase further. This was indeed discussed in the Commission during the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U117	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U118	Yes, I would like to mention that there was a meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs today at which the Commission decided that the third reading of this draft could take place next Monday.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U119	Thank you for this information. Let's move on with the negotiations. Valdo Randpere, please! Is Valdo a procedural question? A microphone for Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U120	Can we make Toomas Kivimägi speak before me because he speaks for the group? But I don't want to be last in line either. Why don't you just let Thomas pass me?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U121	Thank you. At second reading, no one will speak for the group; everyone will speak for themselves. So, Valdo, you can take yourself out of line and give it an advantage to Toomas Kivimägi. Please, Toomas Stone Mountain!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U122	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the worst cluster bill I've ever seen in my eyes. As a comfort, I can only say so much that I look back in time six years ago, so long I have been in the Riigikogu. The worst in financial terms, yes, Jürgen immediately clarifies that, not to say more harmful, was, of course, the cluster bill adopted at the end of 2016. But technically, technically, it is the present draft that is certainly the worst cluster bill, for a very large number of reasons. One can start with what Viktoria and colleagues from the group drew attention to. I find it completely anomalous that the Committee on Legal Affairs is voting down an amendment falling within the remit of the Committee on Culture. That's exactly what they did with the PGS. In essence, this proposal did not differ from what was finally approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs. This is unprecedented! And another example of this area is that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was run over. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also gave a clear position on § 4, saying that it should not be included in this draft. However, this did not interfere with the Committee on Legal Affairs' vote down this proposal. And actually, the most important reason why I am so critical is that there are, first of all, a series of changes in this draft, which apply during an emergency situation, it makes perfect sense, logical and understandable, and so should have been, and should have been limited to them, but there are also a number of changes that apply during an emergency situation and remain in force forever after that. The inclusion of these provisions is clearly questionable. In addition, there are a number of changes that have no connection with the emergency situation. It's most deplorable. It is understandable that, since this is an emergency situation, this draft will be dealt with in an accelerated manner. But it seems to me that everyone who had something hung up has put these things into this bill. That's not what you do! And fourthly, there are no things that businesses and citizens are actually expecting today in emergency situations. For example, Paul Varul has raised a series of questions in the Postimees about enforcement, force majeure and termination of the contract, which in exceptional circumstances cannot always be resolved by agreement or interpretation of the law. These things aren't here at all! Instead, as Paul Varul writes, we need a complex temporary package of legal measures where every word is very precise and important and of great weight. To sum up, he uses the metaphor 'coronary right'. Unfortunately, this is something entirely different. I would like to make some specific comments on specific paragraphs. First of all, § 4, 'amendment of the Emergency Condition Act'. It is sufficient to read the title in order to understand that it is not part of this draft, assuming, of course, that it is understood that the state of emergency and the special situation are not the same. This is the same place as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as far as I know, it is still under the control of the coalition, and it was of the opinion that it should not be in this draft. However, it did not interfere with the Committee on Legal Affairs to include this point here. Please note that the numbering of the sections has changed during the second reading; at first reading, it was § 18; now it is § 19; 'amendment of the Bankruptcy Act'. We are of the opinion that, in times of emergency, the obligation to file for bankruptcy should not be suspended, particularly because the suspension is detrimental to the interests of creditors as well as to the interests of other undertakings in good faith who, without knowing, can enter into agreements with companies that are actually insolvent. But others don't know that. One of the objectives of the obligation to apply for bankruptcy is to ensure the credibility of the economic environment. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U123	Please, eight minutes in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U124	Our position is also supported by the Estonian Banking Association, which is also very critical of this proposal. Once again, Paul Varul has proposed in his article how these statements should work: not to prohibit the filing and processing of bankruptcy applications, but to provide for the possibility of not declaring bankruptcy after the application for bankruptcy and the appointment of a temporary administrator, but for the temporary administrator to ensure that the debtor does not worsen its situation and to help improve it. Very logical! And it is well known to all operators, even to creditors, that it is a company that is insolvent. Yes, one step was now taken by the Committee on Legal Affairs, restoring creditors' right to file for bankruptcy. § 23 of the draft law, 'amendment of the pharmaceutical law'. This is undoubtedly the most intrusive change. Because of this section alone, the reading of this draft could be interrupted. Since this is very important, I read it out loud: 'In a city with more than 4,000 inhabitants, the branch pharmacy of the general pharmacy can also be located in a part of the city if the nearest pharmacy of the city is at least 10 kilometres away. " Pay attention, this change is permanent! A branch pharmacy in Kohtla-Järve is de facto legalised. In other words, the rules that should apply to everyone when setting up pharmacies from 1 April are not really valid for everyone if the Riigikogu approves this change. This has also been strongly pointed out by the Estonian Drug Traders' Association, which has been received by all the political groups. It is absolutely incredible that such changes will be pushed through in the cover of the emergency situation. My final point concerns the implementation of restrictions on foreign labour. In this case too, the Chancellor of Justice has stated his critical position, written it and sent it to the Commission. I quote: 'In general, the state has a wide margin of discretion on how to regulate the work of foreigners. [---] However, if the Riigikogu has established a regulation that allows foreigners to enter the country for the purpose of working under certain conditions, employers are also entitled to expect that the state will comply with the principle of legal certainty and that the established rules will not be changed unreasonablely at short notice. " Very clear talk! The Estonian Employers' Confederation and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry have also spoken very clearly against the proposed restrictions. However, their position does not interfere with the coalition's roller coaster. Why does the government so badly want to decide for entrepreneurs? I don't get it! The talk of inclusion is merely a word of speech. However, the amendment can improve this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a real pity that instead of making a law that only regulates and applies during an emergency situation, a compote has been put together which is very difficult to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U125	Thank you. Valdo Randpere, 5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U126	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I basically agree with everything Thomas said here in our two-act speech. I too, as an old lawyer, quite get excited and upset when I see a law called some kind of auxiliary police law, but which in principle should be an emergency law, in fact it is an emergency law. This is a cluster bill of 34 laws that actually do not have any logical contact with each other. Many things, as Thomas pointed out, will remain in place beyond the emergency situation and many will have nothing to do with the emergency situation. As a lawyer, I would have proposed and, in fact, I tried to tell my people this proposal, but, well, who is still listening to the opposition, so that it would be more appropriate to adopt an emergency law and rewrite it in such a way that at the moment when the emergency situation ends, all the points that are foreseen in this law will end. At the moment, if there is another special situation, we will be going through at least 34 pieces of legislation to be added, hundreds of them, to find points concerning the special situation. Maybe it's been a few years, we don't remember anymore, and then we have to look instead of having an emergency law with a beginning, end and content. But in addition to what Thomas said here, that the emergency situation is being exploited and that there are all kinds of suggestions and tricks in its shadow, there is one thing to be said. I'd like to talk about that, too. This is actually a topic that I started here a few days ago, these are the very strong restrictions that we have imposed. We are thinking about an exit strategy and we do not seem to have very good ideas. Well, I've got some good ideas. One good idea is this: if we were to start by leaving the exits and exits of crisis measures more to the people themselves, for example, to decide when they want to open their doors in different places there are different prerequisites and in what form they want to continue learning. We could do everything we can to ensure that the majority of society is free and can decide for itself and that those who are really at risk in the risk group are taken care of, maintained and protected, even if it means that the state launches a mass information campaign and announces everywhere to older people in the risk group, so that you do not come into contact with others, seek help. The country could send them some Bolt food, drugs, anything else. But there's one more thing we can use to keep people safe. This is a continuation of scheduled treatment. It has now become apparent that, in addition to the fact that all public hospitals have been shut down and the planned treatment has in principle been suspended, the Head of the Health Board has ordered the closure of private hospitals and dentists. At the same time, it has become clear that this arrangement is completely illegal. The Head of the Health Board has completely tampered with the lockdown of a large part of the Estonian health care system, which means that even private hospitals cannot help patients who need scheduled treatment. I said this number on Monday, I can repeat this: every day in Estonia, 44 people die statistically, and now, because of the corona virus, 1 person has died in the middle per day. 1 person vs. 44 people. We report every day how much died because of the corona, sometimes we talk about what happened in the name, but we have no idea what has happened in the other half. How many more are there, and who is responsible? I'm not a doctor. We've got doctors in this room, I know at least two, one's sitting in front, and the other one's probably Dr. Vasilyev. They can complement me later. These conditions, which appear to be mild, can be expected to go through a period of crisis, but which can become very fatal very quickly if you do not receive treatment. Let's take the varicose veins, and I won't tell you my own medical history, which, if you don't get treatment, can cause blood clots in your lungs and death. What are people doing with these varicose veins now? They are waiting for the crisis to end. Why are we doing this? Why don't we just let a private clinic tent, dentists do our job? After all, dentists only provide emergency assistance. None of us are gonna go brush our teeth at the dentist. We're gonna go there when we need help. The doctors themselves want to work, the doctors themselves know how to protect themselves. Why do we force them into the frame with which we can actually harm the health of Estonian people more than we can keep? If you come back to this cluster bill again, it's ridiculous places, too... Jürgen, are you running a concert there? ... as indeed this single pharmacy in Kohtla-Järve. And it makes me wonder how it has been forgotten that the criminal law in force says that wearing a mask automatically leads to more severe punishment for certain crimes. Perhaps it could have been changed, too, that if you commit a crime during a crisis and wear a mask, there will be no more punishment. This legislation has become so absurd, we change it in a hurry, and it actually, I say, has no legal or substantive end or edge. I have been critical and I am still critical of the limitations that we have put in place here and which we cannot relax in any way. We can see that the world around us is starting to let the kids go to school, but we can't decide. We'll talk about May 15th, but the next day won't talk. I'm afraid we've gone too far. The situation of private doctors and private clinics is also an example of how we have actually taken advantage of the emergency situation and how some have exceeded their powers, and perhaps we are causing too much damage compared to what we are preventing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U127	Thank you. [[V. Vassilyev asks for something in the hall.]] Yes, indeed, you have a chance to reply. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U128	Thank you. I must say with sadness that, in this case, I cannot rely on party politics. In one particular position, my good enemy Valdo Randper is right. Indeed, closing private clinics and stopping dental care are not justified, I can say that as a doctor. Although I am not in favour of paid health care, this was still an opportunity in the present situation to receive medical care and dental care. Indeed, there are situations that require intervention, whether or not they fall within the competence of the EMO. So far, it's like it wasn't or it wasn't, it's legally confusing. So far, signals are being signaled and announced on the Internet and in the newspapers that private clinics are closed, dental care is being stopped, and people are forced to suffer pain at home or to think about the consequences if they do not receive medical care on time. Doctors and dentists in private clinics should be trusted because they really do know how to protect themselves and also protect patients. So sad enough, there's nothing to be done, but Valdo Randper is right about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U129	Thank you. Your show's over, too, so there's no more valuable consultation. Valdo Randpere, do you have a procedural question? Your name is not mentioned in the negotiations from the remote and the endless exchange of mutual lines in the Chamber does not provide for the Rules of Procedure. Do you have a procedural question? A microphone for Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U130	A hundred percent procedure! As a polite person, I would of course like to thank Viktor for his support. But, actually, I hope, and this is a procedure question now, I hope that the talk Viktor was saying isn't important, it doesn't matter, it doesn't have to be noticed, it gets to the press. I have been deeply disturbed lately that in the Chamber of Riigikogu, where the opposition is doing a great job and now Viktor is supporting us, the result is that I only read about some kind of government press conference and that the opposition is weak. I'm really begging you, journalists! Now that you've stayed in your home offices, wake up, Viktor Vasilyev has just made a very important statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U131	Thank you, Valdo Randpere! However, this was not a procedural question. Urmas Kruuse, please, 5 + 3 minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! I have to admit, there's more together in the hall today than in the previous line. I agree with Andrei. As he admitted from this remote control, agriculture sucks. And it sucks in other business sectors too, because the amount of foreign labour we have used and trained so far is large enough to give the economy another blow. Therefore, I do not understand why the coalition did not take into account the Reform Party's proposal, which was clearly broader and aimed at ensuring that the foreign workers who are in this country today could at least be here and work until autumn, so that there would be some time for adaptation. This proposal did not go through and did not pass the proposal I tabled, which was narrower and specifically related to agriculture. Why this proposal did not work, Andrei Korobenik admitted honestly the last time. The Prime Minister didn't really want to talk about it today. There is a very simple and logical reason for this. Perhaps you remember the speech by our honorable Minister of Finance that he made on this board? After all, there were three keywords: farmers are not weeping, the woods and the Docs do not have to be able to work here, and let us send them out of the country. If the Prime Minister did not flinch at those words, it is humanly clear that perhaps his workload is so great and not all can be noticed. But even if the Foreign Minister sits there and keeps his mouth shut, I'd like to ask what's going on in this country. I'm so sorry about that. If it is also believed that there are woods and grasses in the Committee on Rural Affairs whose opinion does not have to be taken into account, I would like to ask my good colleagues in this committee whether they feel that way. Why am I saying this? I am saying this because the Committee on Rural Affairs sent an opinion to the Committee on Legal Affairs, and in this opinion it was very specific that, in the case of farmers, the possibility of working for foreigners should be extended until the end of the season. Period. Now, when the Prime Minister said that, until the end of July, 621 foreign workers could continue here, it would be a drop in the sea. A drop in the sea! This is because the issue in Estonia is not a question of this problem is global and it is a question of established employment relations. The world needs more than a million seasonal workers and Estonia is not alone here, it could and should be understood. If it turns out that the Committee on Rural Affairs also has woods and grasses, then you could listen to the sound of reason. The voice of reason, I'm watching, has been heard lately from South Estonia. Tiit Niilo, the master of Nopri farm and the hard-working man in every sense, said two important things by sending 'Ringview'. They have long tried to get Estonians, natives, neighbours to work in agriculture, but these, the bastards, want to work for a very short time. You can't do that. In addition, they only want to work half a day and so on. It is not possible to maintain agriculture in this way. The same voice of reason is said by Hillar Lillo, a Põlva County farmer who actually said that we need more Estonians in agriculture in a structural and long-term way, but they do not come into this sector, which means that the critical situation is seasonal. This, in turn, means that if you don't put something down in the spring, you don't cut it in the autumn. Extremely unreasonable behavior in a situation like this. If I don't get what I want, and I'm not ready to let people who really want it work, I'm gonna throw a big money witty, and I think it's gonna solve all the problems. We'll put 200 million into the MES. In this light, the first measure is the labour force, the first measure is the labour force! And then we can discuss the rest. But what made me particularly happy about Tiit Niilo was that he dared to remind us Estonians of the time when we worked 24 hours a day in Finland, we wanted to work, we worked and we were allowed to work. Today, it seems to us that we have become so rich that we are no longer absolutely concerned about how we were treated and how we view others. But right now we're telling the Prime Minister of Finland that a salesgirl can't be the Prime Minister where you're going with it! And then we think and hope why traffic only goes one way and it doesn't seem to have any effect. That's why I'm asking: where are you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Prime Minister, when the EKRE flashes? In the old days, they used to say, "Where are you, God, when the lightning strikes?" Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members of the Group. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We have the opportunity to change this situation today and to support the amendments that give workers in agriculture, foreign workers, the opportunity to work here until the end of the season. Please support this and let us see how many Estonians finally go to work in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U133	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U134	Good vice chairman! Good coworkers! I'd like to start with one simple kind of correction. Dear colleague Toomas Kivimägi, who you are also a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs! From this remote, you claimed a lie. The proposals of the Committee on Culture were not voted down. The Committee on Culture's proposal did not receive enough votes of support; the vote was tied. I came to the Committee on Culture to help because that is how our group had decided, and that is how the tie came. It is interpreted as meaning that, if there were not enough votes for, it would be a wrong vote and it would not be polite for a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs to claim it. Now, the other thing I've always been interested in. I have talked quite a lot about this in my group, and I have also asked this board several times how it is. There was a case in the previous term when the Committee on Rural Affairs gave its opinion to ELAK and it was consensual, but ELAK decided otherwise. I asked if there was a fork here, whether there was a contradiction or how we should act. For example, I would also say to the Committee on Rural Affairs today that if the Committee on Rural Affairs asks the Committee on Legal Affairs for a position, and it is either consensual or whatever, you are counting on it, but you do not have to take it fully into account and take it in the way that this is now the holy grail that needs to be built on. The Committee on Rural Affairs is made up of the best people and they take their own decisions. They simply collect all opinions and take them into account. If any committee thinks that they are specialists and decides that this is the way it should be, and the lead committee already has hands on it, why do we need the lead committee in the first place? And now I want to come to a committee that has caused me a little discord. I'll start with Merle Jääger's poem, a little quote: 'Educately dirty and rotten from the inside of the soul, enter the life of the chump, breed from the working family. " Home education and quarantine have been very stressful for quite a number of students and their parents. Ten-hour school days while a mother also has to work at a home office are chewing on her mind. The Estonian Educational Workers' Association reports that over 60% of them are already at risk, i.e. they are at a age where they are no longer so agile and may not be able to communicate with young people all the time in today's online environment. Their opinion, however, is that young people are sitting online anyway, and we just keep slamming on their responsibilities. I don't want to know what's going on in these families, but I've just heard something, and it's very colorful, of course. I understand that there is concern in itself. Our e-learning was not prepared for this crisis. The school's task is to prepare young people for an independent life. In my opinion, our schoolchildren today have managed this more or less perfectly and they need to be recognised. The fear that came from the teachers I especially liked the teachers of work, who said, "Whoo! ' I would like to ask the specialists when was the last time a state examination or a normal exam took place in the work studies. But, of course, they're all one, one for all. I like that. The school students themselves have sent me a document entitled 'Conditions and procedures for preparing and conducting the basic and upper secondary school final exams and preparing, evaluating and maintaining the examination papers, and the conditions and procedures for analysing the results of the proficiency papers, common basic school finals and state exams'. Paragraph 37 of this document deals with the assessment of state examinations and paragraph 15 of that provision states that the state examination has been completed if at least 1% of the maximum result has been obtained. So, school students ask that if the teachers don't respect us, why should we respect the school? Let's go and do our 2%! Is this the kind of Estonia we want? Young people understand that these comprehensive school finals are being cancelled in neighbouring countries, but what am I saying here, I am from the Committee on Legal Affairs. In the Committee on Culture, we have specialists and they talk. I'm on the side of young people and students. Give them freedom, give them the knowledge that Estonia loves them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U135	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur, please! But first, Toomas Kivimägi has the right to reply. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Since I was unduly accused, I would give Tarmo Kruusimägi a detention lesson and bring an extract from the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. There is a provision that says that the Riigikogu commission will take decisions by a majority of votes in favour. In other words, if there was a tie, the amendment was not supported, which means that the Committee on Legal Affairs voted down the amendment of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U137	Thank you. Let's move on with the negotiations. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U138	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U139	What I do not understand at all is the desire to introduce, through the 'back door', provisions that have nothing to do with resolving the emergency situation, but they raise a lot of questions. Thomas has already referred to the pharmaceutical law. The amendment introduced by the pharmaceutical law is clearly of a lasting nature. This may only help solve the issue of a pharmacy in one part of Kohtla-Järve, but this is not the way. Moreover, this change is of a lasting nature. This is a fundamental change of position in pharmaceutical policy, in circumstances where we had just made a reform of the pharmacy with the support of the coalition. And now we're giving the Agency a lot of rights to turn this regulation of the medicine law upside down in principle. We say yes, the same hall passed the law, and now, less than a month after this law came into force, we basically give the Agency a delegation rule to turn everything upside down. Similarly, there is still a portion of the provisions that should not actually be here, they are difficult to understand. And, of course, correction of errors, which should also not be here, such as the amendment to the arms law. Correction of the errors of the Weapons Act, yes, it may be here, but again, it gives the whole bill a very unpleasant shade, it is not about the emergency situation, be it shooting sports clubs or anything else. But the amendments to the arms law concerning the extension of weapons permits and collection permits, which I pointed out at the beginning, are very necessary and should have been in here. So the general message about this law is somewhat similar to what we had in the proceedings on the previous draft when we said that yes, if these tar droplets weren't here in the honey pot, then you could accept this honey pot. But these tar drops are in here. Well, I don't want to be a brake again so that the necessary legislative changes can't be adopted in time and quickly, but inevitably we have to make speeches and draw the coalition's attention to the fact that there are problems here. Or an amendment to the Aliens Act. It is absurd to say to a person that if he or she has a contract of employment and if that contract ends during an emergency, he or she automatically becomes a persona non grata, and on the other hand we give the director of the Police and Border Guard Board the right to say that if he or she cannot go out, let him or she stay in Estonia. We will adopt such a regulation today, or at least we will carry out a second reading. In conclusion, we can say that there are a lot of necessary things here, and as Urmas Kruuse said, we would be able to overcome the problems nicely if the opposition's amendments were supported. The roller coaster is great, but sometimes it's worth thinking about with your head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We all understand in this Chamber that emergency situations require urgent delivery. The opposition has repeatedly said that we are prepared to assist and support the Government of the Republic to come out of this crisis rationally and quickly. This draft has in fact been kept at a relatively rapid pace and this draft would not have created any problems in this Chamber if the government had focused exclusively on emergency measures. There are a lot of good and necessary things in this draft, most of which are indeed linked to an emergency situation. These measures include, for example, an extension of the validity of various authorisations or a postponement of State secrets interviews. Although one might ask why there is such an uneven view in the government that an extension of certain permits is foreseen for 30 days, an extension of certain permits for 60 days or two months, as stated in this draft, and the deadline for certain permits or procedures is 90 days. It would be clearer for all those implementing the law to say that a specific period of three months, two months or one month should be said, that if you have a permit ending and you cannot extend it during an emergency situation, it will automatically be extended by, for example, 90 days from the date of expiry of the emergency situation. A clear, simple message for all license holders. At the moment, however, each licence holder is obliged to review this law as to whether it has 30 days, 60 days or 90 days. Maybe it's a detail, but it's still a sign that there's really no line here. But against the principle of allowing permits to be extended, no one has ever been. Certainly, it is also very sensible to have this regulation concerning the introduction of new tasks during an emergency situation, so that you can move people from one job to another within the ministry or between the authorities. Where there is a lack of working hands, more people will be put, of course, provided that these people are qualified for the job. This regulation has not caused any opposition, and we have never heard any questions on this issue in this Chamber, so it is logical and understandable in that sense. Similarly, the creation of different e-options in this draft can be said, for example, in the Guarantee Fund Act. There are further examples where meetings have been given the opportunity to be held electronically. Again, very reasonable! But then we see that next to the sensible points that could really be called "The Speciality Settlement Act," there are things that are of a lasting nature or that are obviously not related to an emergency situation, they have already been brought to the attention here several times. One of the most fundamental things for me in the case of assistant police officers is that they are giving completely conflicting messages: on the one hand, we are giving help police officers the right to use greater force, for example, but on the other, we are reducing their training obligations. Well, how does it make sense that we reduce training, reduce education, but on the other hand, we allow them to use more force against people? That doesn't make any sense! Similarly, when I look at § 4, 'amendment of the Emergency Status Act', does the Government of the Republic really see the possibility that there is a threat to the constitutional order of the State in the course of this crisis? In the event of a threat to the constitutional order of the country, we are able to declare an emergency situation in this Chamber, and in this case we now urgently need to amend the Emergency Status Act. I get the idea, but maybe the message isn't really. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U141	Thank you. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U142	Ladies and gentlemen, I was motivated by a very small aspect of this procedure. Since this hall is also spoken to by the people, it is important that the people know how the procedure here is conducted. We are all divided into different committees in the Riigikogu. A suitable committee shall be elected by its members. On the basis of their interest, their expertise, they decide which committee they want to participate in. They will make the relevant issues very clear to themselves and discuss the issues related to them in this particular Commission. We must trust our colleagues in this matter; we cannot work through everything in such detail ourselves. I think it's a very good working arrangement. I am listening to my colleagues who are experts in one field or another. What did we see in this draft procedure? We saw that we had a cluster of laws that we had to deal with quickly. The various parts of the draft were distributed among the committees on an expert basis. The committees organised their work in such a way as to invite a minister who spoke on a specific subject, then asked in-depth questions, discussed for hours, which could be a solution, and finally a decision was reached. This was the case in the Committee on Culture, as was the case in the Committee on Social Affairs, as was the case in the Committee on Rural Affairs. These opinions were forwarded to the Committee on Legal Affairs. However, it seemed that, as the whole procedure was so urgent, perhaps no instructions were given from the top about how anyone should behave. There was a very thorough debate in the committees that dealt with one or the other specific issue, and a consensus was reached on what could be the solution. Then it became clear that these solutions might not be suitable for the government, and in the Committee on Legal Affairs other arrangements were already made. The opinions of the committees, which were substantive and thorough, were not taken into account. This was the case for the Committee on Rural Affairs, which took a very clear position on whether or not to authorise foreign workers. This was actually the case for the Social Affairs Committee, which took a position on the emergency and the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, which was not taken into account. This was also the case in the Committee on Culture, which listened very thoroughly to the Minister and other officials and reached a position on the basic school and upper secondary school law. What do I mean by that? I mean, let us trust our colleagues. The coalition ambassadors too! We have been elected to this Parliament to do our job. And, in fact, there are a lot of experts in different fields among us, their opinion should be taken into account. I think that, if this draft is looked at in the future, what the MPs thought in essence will come out of the minutes of the committees, out of the positions of those committees that basically went into these issues. I am very sorry that the Coalition Council or I do not know which body made the decision, which simply led to the crossing of these experts and committees. Those people who dealt with this matter thoroughly in the committees were simply run over. That's what I wanted to mention for the sake of history and the verbatim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U143	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U144	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! The draft contains both substantive changes in order to facilitate the resolution of the emergency situation and proposals that we should not urgently resolve without a thorough examination. I will mark the changes planned for the three laws that were left to rattle. There's just no time. First of all, an amendment to the law on a deputy police officer. The draft provides an opportunity, at the order of the Director-General of the PBA, to abandon the 100-hour practice between the first and second level of the Assistant Police Officer, and to extend the powers of the Assistant Police Officers to assist the police and the use of specific measures already foreseen for the Assistant Police Officers. Auxiliary police officers shall be given the right to use appropriate databases to identify the person and the right, under police orders, to force the vehicle to stop, either by means of a barrier or other means of assistance. An independent assistant police officer is also entitled to apply a stay ban. At the same time, independent competence in the person's fundamental rights in particularly damaging measures, such as the application of a curfew, the suspension of a vehicle, the identification of identity, the use of databases, is only applicable in an emergency situation and is limited in time. The Social Democrats proposed not to give up a hundred hours of police practice. It does not make sense that, on the one hand, rights are granted and, on the other hand, preparation is reduced. There is also an increase in unequal treatment. Under normal circumstances, the 100-hour internship requirement applies. In an emergency, someone who is an assistant police officer can only do police work for a few hours, but when the situation stabilizes, he does not need to take lessons. The Committee on Legal Affairs did not support our proposal. At the same time, the Minister for Justice explained the draft at first reading rather supported it. I quote: 'As far as 100 hours of preparation is concerned, it is primarily intended that, before an assistant police officer becomes a'second-level' assistant police officer, or the right to work independently without being directly guided by a police officer, in normal circumstances, this second-level right must be preceded by a one hundred-hour internship with a police officer. This requirement has now been relaxed, but only by the time an emergency or emergency situation has been put in place, and such so-called relief can only be provided by the Director General of the PB. But, of course, if a person goes on to perform his or her duties, particularly where the fundamental rights or freedoms of persons must be potentially restricted, so-called power is used, documents are checked, identity is established, then the principle that the person is prepared, he or she knows what his or her rights are and what his or her powers are. This is for two reasons: on the one hand, for the protection of ordinary citizens, but on the other hand, for the protection of the same assistant police officer himself, so that he does not exceed his powers or commit an offence without knowing. ' From this we can say that the Minister of Justice is on the same side as the Social Democrats, but the Committee on Legal Affairs did not take our proposal into account somehow. Secondly, the amendment of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases. In an emergency, the employer will have the opportunity not to require a medical certificate from an employee who wishes to work in a child institution, a nursing home, a catering company. Instead of proof, you can limit your employee to a statement that he is healthy. And third, the amendment of the sacrificial aid law. The Victim Assistance Act is supplemented by a provision allowing the provision of the Women's Support Centre during an emergency and emergency situation or martial law, also to be provided by a person who has not completed further training on violence against women or a subject related to violence against women at the university. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U145	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U146	From the explanatory memorandum at first reading of the bill, we can also read the following: 'The victim assistance is also allowed to be volunteered by a person who is a grandparent, parent, brother, sister, child or grandchild, spouse or partner of an official providing the victim support service of the Social Insurance Board supervising him or of a person referred to in Article 5 (3) of the OAS, as well as a parent, brother, sister or child of the latter. ' The question arises: what does that have to do with anything? In a letter sent to the Riigikogu, the representatives of women's asylums rejected this idea and said that if we removed today the special rules that apply to the provision of the service of violence against women, such as awareness, security, confidentiality, the ability to understand the victim and not impose the experiences we have experienced, then we could simply call this service to help people. They also stressed that there were sufficient staff and trained volunteers in the reference centres. The projected 30% increase in service needs should not lead to a situation that gets out of control. Today we demand by law and assume that women's shelters as accommodations are secret. But how can we continue to ensure that other individuals who have become aware of the location also meet this requirement? People in shelters, i.e. those who are working there now or who are in it, can keep a secret because they understand how important this is to them and to any woman in the same situation. There is no need for the person not concerned to keep the address confidential. So said Margo Valley and Pille Tsop-Pagan, representatives of women's shelters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U147	Thank you. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U148	Ladies and gentlemen, There is one very disturbing thing that has been overlooked when dealing with both this draft and the related drafts. This is a disregard for the views of the central business organisations, whether it is the Confederation of Employers, the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Farmers or the Chamber of Agriculture. This is particularly true in the context of the external workforce, on which they have said their views. These views have been ignored and that is why the question arises: even if we do not take the positions of central organisations seriously, who do we believe? Is it the Blue Wake-up? I have been a member of the Farmers' Association for 30 years and I feel very upset that the organisation I have been a member of for 30 years is called Mart Helme, Chairman of the EKRE. Dear organization, it's time to react! Are you a decker or a dignified farmer's organization? Now, in this context, when it comes to foreign labour, i.e. the woods and the woods, my neighborhood, too, there have, in my time, been a great deal of people going to work in Scandinavian agriculture in particular. I don't know if they're gonna be very happy when they're thought of as punks and docs. Today I am in a very clear position: yes, people in Estonia must try to apply as best as possible to vacancies. No question! It is clear that in agriculture the weather is making its own and spring is coming. In this context, the absolute minimum today really is 31 July, as comes out of this draft. But I don't understand why July 31st. Has July 31st been declared a government ukase by the end of the agricultural year? For example, instead of looking at colleagues, this closing date might have really been a run-off on November 10th, the March Day. After all, Martides have had a remarkable significance in Estonian agriculture recently. Well, if we do not need 3,000 people from the outside in agriculture today, and we can manage with a smaller number, then it is clear that 600 people will not be able to resolve the situation until 31 July. Nothing! My recommendation has been this and you have heard it too: this law should give the government the opportunity to make much more flexible and sensible solutions, so if we see around Midsummer that we have not been able to reorganize the labour market enough, then we should not come here on Midsummer Day to change the law again. The government should have flexibility and the opportunity to react. In times of crisis, complex laws are needed, and these complex laws must be flexible enough and allow reasonable solutions to be made. But this aspect is a big mistake in this law. What else to say about farmers? Farmers are also a little disturbed by the fact that the whole agricultural sector is viewed as easy-to-shoe work, such as harvesting stones or whatever. But today's agriculture is not the same as it used to be, when the Shephs were driven to a field in the collective farm, the buckets were handed, they were collected, the contents were put in a box, the bus was taken in the evening and the city was driven back. Life is not that simple, and farmers feel insulted that the whole sector is being looked at in a very primitive way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U149	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U150	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to slow down the criticism of cluster bill as such. I guess they've been done before. But you have to know when they're justified, and you have to know what's inside. The use of cluster billing must not cause the Riigikogu to make crack decisions and decisions that are obviously harmful. I therefore think that giving priority to this cluster bill is somewhat conditional. It is really full of letters and contradictions, but I would like to say how to put it, debate or first place in legal engineering, to the group at the end of 2016, which ruled out any debate. The jacket was sewn on the button for second reading and not even allowed the Commission to argue over the very harsh decisions that we are still paying for. Our budget is in a very poor state of crisis because of what was done with the 2016 cluster. But this reference to the past certainly does not justify everything that has been done now. I'm just less critical of a bunch in a crisis situation. The crisis is the first reason why. Of course, the coming of Ratas was also a crisis, but the nature of the current crisis is that we should be well-chosen in criticism. I'm only picking one thing because it bombes me more than the others. To be honest, I admit that I cannot imagine the desperation that farmers now have. You need to sow and you need to do the animals, but you have no one to do it. And then there comes the party, which has grown out of the collective family, full of anger for the newest, and here it is raging that no, he does not shed tears, no, which the woodmen and the Docites, let them all go! In fact, think about this situation, you have a family business built up and you have no one to send to the barn, no one to send to the field. It's a real situation right now. Coalition, please get your feet out of your stomach and think about it! This isn't some kind of party score, that we're now sending the woods and the Docs to the moon. There is a real need for a certain number of people to function in agriculture. It has been said that there is a need for seasonal workers in 2000. No one has tried to explain the right to make such decisions. In fact, Estonian agriculture has already become dependent on certain people who do not interfere with us in any way. They will do a job that the Estonians themselves will not do. And the story that we are sending urban people to the country is, of course, moving, after all, I have lived this life myself over the years, but they are not staying there permanently 24/7. They're not coming or they're only coming for the weekend. Isn't that something you're not being approached about? Doesn't anyone knock on your soul that we're gonna stop teasing farmers? In my opinion, this is a very clear non-party issue, and it does not concern the crisis at all in the sense that there is something to be done to these farmers now. Just have mercy, that's all! Let us do this and prove that Estonia does not need additional labour, then I agree with you. But you're not even trying now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U151	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U152	Mr. Vice President! I hope you can still hear me through the muzzle. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with two controversial questions and a thesis. The first question: is this law necessary? The answer is that it is essential. The second question: is this law good? No way. There's a lot of points that give me a toothache that unfortunately can't be cured right now. But there's something I want to do here. If some opposition representatives say that they did a very big job that has not been taken into account, then I would like to say that the coalition did not sleep either. This law is eclectic, I fully agree, and some things are legally limping, but it is also the result of a great deal of work and very many bloody disputes and compromises. Now, a few more specific questions. I am totally in favour of this part of the auxiliary police. The critics come from taking a man off the street with little training, giving him weapons and other permits. Well, you realize that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about making it easier for the Defence League to become an assistant police officer. Yes, Hanno, I specifically call you so you can argue with me. For me, the biggest problem is § 32, 'amendment of the Law of Foreigners'. Here, at last, a certain exception has been made for agriculture, because otherwise it will fade away, but the Estonian economy is not just agriculture. Similar problems exist in the tourism sector, similar problems in the catering sector, similar problems in many other areas. I am not representing any humanist or human rights opinion here right now. Such measures are not beneficial for the Estonian economy, and we must now make a great effort to prevent the Estonian economy from collapsing. We were able to avoid an expansionary increase in health care, but we must also avoid the expansionary growth of bankruptcies. This is my biggest toothache point. I forgot to tell you earlier that I support this bill, yes. Now, I want to object to another MP whose name I do not specifically name, but it is a big Swedish fan and one who talks about making up his own mind. I too find the liberal ideas close in many respects, but everyone can decide for themselves whether or not they risk becoming ill, but not everyone should decide whether or not to infect others. I don't like this mask, and I know it doesn't really protect me, but since I have a cold and a cough, I'm wearing it, good friends, to protect you. And by the way, when I'm talking about individual freedom, it has another side of responsibility. There is no freedom without responsibility, and there is no freedom on the contrary. Thank you. Please don't give me three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U153	Thank you. Valdo Randpere, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U154	This time it's not even procedural. As far as I am concerned, our law on home and working procedures does not provide for a name to be named, but it is enough for someone to be referred to in a recognizable way. And since I felt touched by being a Swedish friend, I just wanted to make sure that it was enough to make reference or to name a name?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U155	No, you're right, Valdo. But there are a lot of Swedish friends here and maybe even bigger than you. Hanno Pevkur, please, you will receive a reply!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U156	Thank you. My name really sounded like it. I'm just saying, for the sake of fact, that when you read the amendments to the law of an assistant police officer, they have nothing to do with the defence allies. If they were only connected with the Defence Allies, the situation would be superb because the Defence Allies will receive permanent and regular training, including in the use of special equipment. However, the draft states that after 40 hours of short training, 100 hours of practice will be abandoned. It is a significant difference whether or not a person from the street who has received only 40 hours of training, unlike a regular police officer's one and a half years of training, will be able to use the force. This is a purely legal clarification of Mr Lotman's speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U157	Thank you. Let's move on with the negotiations. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U158	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a great deal of talk here about agriculture and rural areas. I dare say that I know something about rural and agricultural, too, because I have been doing this almost my whole life. First of all, I would like to read the decision of the Rural Affairs Committee on the Riigikogu's website: 'The Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the problems of the agricultural workforce at its meeting today and decided to support the extension of the work permits for foreigners already working in Estonia, at least until the end of the emergency situation. 'That's not exactly the end of the season. I fully agree that the problem of labour in agriculture is very difficult, very difficult. Farmers have worked very hard to achieve the situation in which they are now. It's a comfortable situation. Indeed, just as our people went and go to Finland to earn money, especially in agriculture, they come to make money for us. It's mutually very comfortable, it's a comfort zone. Now, maybe we should just say that I don't rule out that this is a problem in agriculture to think a little bit out of the comfort zone. We don't know what autumn brings. We do not know whether Ukraine is letting its people out or not. If the people from Ukraine come to us, I will just give you an example, and what happens to those who came from Italy in Saaremaa, who will take responsibility? We have a lot of people who are unemployed. We are really thinking at some point, perhaps, that perhaps we should help our people to get a job in agriculture, in rural areas, for example, by helping with wage subsidies. Farmers are complicated, I know, their duties are very high. It is not easy for them to pay wages that are Finnish or other countries. Perhaps we should direct our help there, not at any cost, to say that we are bringing in workers from outside. We bring when time improves and when there are opportunities, but we also think about what happens when times don't heal and things get worse. We do not know what the markets will be, we do not know what tomorrow will bring. I urge you to feel a little more risks and think about what other solutions will be if we cannot go the way we are used to going all the time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U159	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please, would you like a reply?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U160	I have a procedural remark!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U161	It's a procedure! Now, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U162	I would like to clarify the words of the Honorable Merry Aart. I did not refer to this so-called decision, the press release of which had already been made before the Commission, but I referred to the official letter sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs, which referred to the debate in the Committee on Rural Affairs. In this debate, the participants in the debate stated that it is very sensible and necessary to grant an extension until autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U163	Thank you. Now we have an answer to that. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There's been a lot of talk about the different nuances of this bill, and I'm not gonna go over it. However, in general terms, the opposition has given the government a rather large credit for trust in this type of draft. Since this is an emergency situation, we could try to reach consensus on this type of decision concerning the restriction of people's rights. The readiness to do so was sincere, and I think that the opposition also had a very operational willingness to agree and discuss these issues. This is not only about the current draft, but more or less about everyone that is going to be voted on today. But unfortunately, the trust facility was misused. I do not mean here that this draft, which amends 33 laws, was such a first reading explanatory statement that it was, in principle, impossible to follow. As one of the previous speakers said, the coalition has worked hard. There is no doubt that government officials have worked very hard to bring together a compendium in a very short time. And the fact that the quality of the explanatory statement is not normally good is a fact that can be forgiven because in a short time it was necessary to gather such a large and thorough material. However, we cannot forgive the fact that party-political wishes that deserve a completely separate debate, such as amendments to the Aliens Act, have been included in the bill. They were explicitly mentioned in the explanatory memorandum that they were taken from another draft, but since the procedure is currently dragging on and the party and minister that initiated it has an ugly desire to implement these changes, let us put them here. Well, there is no very beautiful and dignified way to find common ground on this issue. One of the previous speakers spoke about how the various committees discussed the various blocks of content in this draft and how the Committee on Legal Affairs rolled over them. There was also talk about how the members of the coalition have dealt very thoroughly with these issues in other rooms, and perhaps there are issues that need to be considered and discussed in a parliamentary state, not only at non-formal meetings, but above all in the places provided for by the Riigikogu's home and operating procedures. Indeed, it has been very difficult to allow a worthy approach to this package, especially given the volume and the time pressure of this matter. All the more regrettable is the experience that I became part of last week's meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as I had tabled amendments to this draft. I may have been there for a little more than an hour, but I can assure you that there was no substantive debate on the limitations of fundamental rights in the Commission. They were simply voted as a block, as the coalition ambassadors agreed. And if they hadn't been able to coordinate before, then the chairman of the committee took a dull break, went to another room and didn't see it, because we participated online, they came back and they said that so, now the votes are together, now we're voting like this. Such grotesque pornography, excuse the expression! I have not seen before in this Parliament, even though I have been full for nine years. And this is a bill on fundamental human rights! Thank God the committee sessions are closed. If the Estonian people knew how the people in some committees were working, democracy would probably be ashamed. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U165	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U166	All the more so, I think it is very important that, now that we come to the vote on the amendments, the ladies and gentlemen who today, as a coalition block, have agreed to vote down the amendments tabled by the opposition, think very seriously about how they will vote, because earlier filters, which are generally in place, such as the intergovernmental coordination circle and the procedure of committees, are essentially out of place for this draft. And the decisions that are made remain on each one's own conscience. Now, there was one good thing. People in government institutions would, of course, like to resolve the situation as effectively as possible in this type of crisis. Data are important for the effective resolution of the crisis. Consequently, in the original text there were additions to § 251 and 261, in the second text of the draft amendments Nos 5 and 6. In cooperation with the government authorities, we managed to reach the point where the government withdrew these proposals. There was an amendment to that effect from me and my colleague, but in fact this issue was resolved outside the Chamber and formal work formats. This is undoubtedly very welcome, because this completely benevolent desire to resolve the crisis quickly, by providing such a wide-ranging form of paperwork for processing data, would certainly have led to very unpleasant abuses, or could potentially have led to the trust of people who have managed it in the country in the current crisis. You shouldn't have done that. I would like to thank all the civil servants and government politicians who agreed to seek an agreement on this issue and to withdraw these two points. Hopefully, the big hall will support it today. But, to sum up, this is a really bad draft, not only because it is legislatively problematic as a matter of urgency, but also because, in fact, the Committee on Legal Affairs, together with its head, has not allowed proper parliamentary procedure for this draft, which has relatively wide-ranging effects, as we know, beyond the specific situation. Therefore, the Group of the Social Democratic Party proposes that the second reading be interrupted and that all the things that are in this draft be carefully considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U167	Thank you. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U168	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to start with the sentence in this hall that I didn't really plan on coming to this remote control. But there is one argument that needs to be substantiated, which has already begun to live its life in this Chamber today, and is regrettably wrong. It's about the relief police. I have a lot of friends with auxiliary police officers, and my own brother is an assistant police officer, so I dare say that I am more familiar with the everyday life of relief policemen than any other person in this room. Losing a hundred hours of internship. There are sentences here today, as if a street full of untrained auxiliary policemen who, by their discretion, are going to force cars to stop and hit everyone whose face they don't like, with a rubber bat on their head. It's not like that! The requirement to lose a hundred-hour internship or the desire to lose it has not come specifically from this crisis, but is based on years of practice in the work of an assistant police officer. The requirement to lose 100 hours of internship does not automatically apply to all auxiliary police officers, but provides the possibility for those auxiliary police officers who have prior experience in police work or security, or who are defence allies and have completed appropriate training in the Defence League's internal defence companies, or who are reservists and have completed military police training in the watch battalion, to proceed with second-level training immediately after first-level training without going through this 100-hour practice. Once again, this option does not extend to everyone. Each assistant police officer is assessed individually. But depending on the person's background, there is now just one window in addition, which gives those who are qualified the opportunity to go straight ahead with second-level training without having to go through a hundred-hour internship. There has also been this unfortunate speculation through the press, as if an assistant policeman now had the opportunity to go forcibly stop the neighbor's car or punish her with a rubber bat in case she didn't like her neighbor. It's not like that! The compulsory suspension of cars is still carried out under the orders of a police officer and in the service. It's just that the rights are expanding somewhat. Before, the police officer was supposed to be right next to this assistant police officer, but now he can order it by radio or distance. And any baton or telescope is a special tool, the use of which requires immediate protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U169	Thank you. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U170	Ladies and gentlemen, Today, talking about relief officers is like a norm and a duty. In fact, it is quite wrong to focus on the same 100-hour training that falls between the first and second steps for relief officers. Competences are important and the assessment of these competences is important. It is also important that, when the emergency situation ends, the same training scheme be reviewed and brought into line with police training. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not fair that we do not allow any policeman to be employed until he has studied for a year and a half or to work in higher education until he has studied for two years and, at the same time, we allow people with very short qualifications to act as an assistant police officer. This is a more serious problem than just an emergency solution. Assistant police officers themselves, as well as police officers, have said that it is important for the assistant policeman to work under the direction and direction of an experienced police officer. Right now, we're only making concessions for the time of emergency. However, we note that in the case of decisions taken during an emergency situation, we will later see to it that normal practice is restored in normal circumstances. I don't want to suspect, but it seems that losing this hundred-hour requirement might make it easier to get weapons training and obtain a weapons permit. A deputy cop is getting money now, in times of crisis, a bonus, whatever. I'm not sorry he's getting the money, but it should definitely not be the motivation to become an assistant police officer. The Minister of the Interior emphasised in this very hall that there are not hundreds but tens of auxiliary policemen outside the door waiting for today's thousand. It seems that a small but also very important issue, which is also closely linked to the issue of the preparation of police officers. Just stressing that in general, in Estonia we have taken the direction that our police education will be three years old, at bachelor level in the future. Now let's compare 40 hours and 40 hours and 100 hours between them. This is certainly not the biggest problem of this law and we hope that the emergency situation will soon be over, but police education will continue to deserve our attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U171	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish for negotiations. We can go to the examination of the amendments. 47 amendments to the draft have been tabled and we will examine them all together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U172	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I am asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U173	Thank you. But before we go to the vote, Kert Kingo must have a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U174	I have a question. Wouldn't it be right to call now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U175	I will make it sound when we go to the vote. We're about to do it. So, we can go to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the first amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. Please take a stand and vote. 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 55 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the lead committee: disregard it. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U176	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U177	Ladies and gentlemen, Can we do the voting procedure without giving the intermediate signal? We can. I am voting on the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party. The position of the lead committee: do not take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 11 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 76 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. A third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the lead committee: do not take this into account. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, it is not to be voted on. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the lead committee: do not take this into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U178	Thank you. Since this proposal has also been supported by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I ask that it be re-elected so that all Members can express their opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U179	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the lead committee: do not take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 35 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 54 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the position of the lead committee: take full account of it. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Heljo Pikhof and Jevgeni Ossinovski, the position of the leading committee: take it fully into account. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U180	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U181	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, with 56 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the position of the lead committee: take full account of it. The 10th amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account of it. Amendment 11 has also been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the position of the lead committee: take full account of this. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U182	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U183	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the 12th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. Please take a stand and vote. 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 53 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 13th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the position of the lead committee: take full account of it. The 14th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. The 15th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, it is not to be voted on. The 16th amendment has also been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, the commission's position: disregard it. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U184	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U185	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 16 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. Please take a stand and vote. 36 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 54 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: do not take this into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U186	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U187	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 17 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. Please take a stand and vote. 36 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 55 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The 18th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account of it. Amendment 19 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa, the position of the commission: take this fully into account. The 20th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account of it. The 21st amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture, the position of the commission: disregard it. The 22nd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa, the position of the commission: take this fully into account. The 23rd amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture, the position of the lead committee: take full account of it. The 24th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the position of the lead committee: take full account of it. The 25th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission: take full account of it. Amendment 26 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa, the position of the commission: disregard it. The 27th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. The 28th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: to take this into account in part. The 29th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U188	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U189	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 29 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. Please take a stand and vote. 31 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 63 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 30 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: do not take this into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U190	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U191	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall vote on the 30th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: not to take it into account. Please take a stand and vote. 31 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 56 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The 31st amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account of it. The 32nd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission: take full account of it. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U192	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U193	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 32 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission: take this fully into account. Please take a stand and vote. 39 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 52 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 33rd amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the position of the lead committee: take full account of it. The 34th amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account of it. 35. the amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, the position of the commission: take full account of it. The 36th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, the position of the commission: disregard it. 37th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U194	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U195	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 37 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 54 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 38th amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, the position of the commission: disregard it. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U196	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U197	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 38 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 54 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 39. Amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, position of the commission: disregard it. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U198	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U199	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 39 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission: not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 13 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 51 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 40th amendment has been tabled by Riigikogu member Oudekki Loone, the position of the commission: leave it to account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U200	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U201	Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the 40th amendment tabled by Riigikogu member Oudekki Loone, the position of the commission: disregard it. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 50 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 41st amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, the position of the commission: do not take this into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U202	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U203	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 41 tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, the position of the commission: not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 52 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 42nd amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa, the position of the commission: take this fully into account. 43rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U204	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U205	That's what we're gonna vote on! Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote on the 43rd amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 51 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 44. Amendment has been tabled by Urmas Kruuse, member of the Riigikogu, the position of the commission: disregard it. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U206	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I ask for this amendment to be voted on and for all people to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U207	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 44, which has been tabled by Urmas Kruuse, Member of the Riigikogu, the position of the commission: disregard it. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 49 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 45th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U208	I would also like to vote on Amendment 45.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U209	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 45 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 53 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 46th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U210	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U211	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 46 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission: disregard it. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 53 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. And now the last, 47th, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, position of the commission of directors: take full account of this. Ladies and gentlemen, We have examined and voted on all the amendments. The Social Democratic Party Group has proposed to interrupt the draft law amending the law and other laws at second reading 170, and we are going to vote on this proposal. Attention, honourable Riigikogu! I am voting on the motion by the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the draft law amending the law and other laws at second reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 41 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 53 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U212	All right, ladies and gentlemen. The commission has proposed that the second reading of the draft 170 be completed. Since the withdrawal proposal was not supported, the second reading has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U213	Let's move on to the agenda. The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the State's additional budget for 2020 relating to the law (measures relating to the spread of the Corona virus causing COVID-19 disease). It is now possible for the representatives of the political groups to negotiate. Is that what you want? Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U214	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft amends 20 laws, and most of these changes are really necessary, given the health crisis, the economic crisis and the general situation in which we are in, and they deserve support. It is logical that, in times of crisis, solutions are being made that are not usually necessary, but these solutions must be temporary and only last in times of crisis. And we can also talk here that some solutions last as long as there is an emergency situation, and some may last longer. But there are things in this bill that shouldn't be in here. At the beginning of the crisis, it was said that the crisis must not be used in the interests of its political agenda. It's been done with this bill. At the beginning of the crisis, it was also said that everyone must be involved in the resolution of the crisis, and that cooperation with the opposition should also be sought. That promise was not honoured. You could say it's politics. We just voted, and there was politics. But let's just go back a little bit. We have a crisis where we don't know how things are going to go on, we don't know how things are going to turn out, we don't know what problems we have to solve. This is also an exceptional situation in terms of substance, not only of legal complexity and difficult time to make different decisions. This is the moment in which a party policy could be rejected, where the Estonian matter could be dealt with. Yes, there are certainly situations where there must be a debate about whether one or the other solution is a good one or there is a better one, but unfortunately there has been no such debate. The coalition has taken the opportunity to do what they can do. They have used their power, their strength, that things are quickly being talked through, that there are some things that they have grafted into this bill, not only to this, but also to the previous and the next, and that should not be here. I am talking about two important things that shouldn't be in this bill. Cutting down excise duties is a political agenda; it has no economic impact at the moment. Fuel prices have fallen and there is no consumption. You can push excise duties to zero, people will not buy more fuel now because there is no need. We can push down the electric excise, but it doesn't have an effect either, the price of electricity has gone down. It's a political agenda. I would have understood to some extent if it had come under discussion in June, after the emergency situation, but I don't understand it right now. It's a political agenda. Suspension of second pillar pension payments is also exactly a political agenda. We are justified by the fact that this was the case last time. I think that each of us has been sick more than once and we have had various diseases. Is each disease treated in exactly the same way? Probably not. But now it is claimed that different diseases can be treated in the same way. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U215	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U216	Look, what we're actually seeing here is that excise duty cuts make a hole in the budget, and then it needs to be filled somehow. One of my colleagues, unfortunately, went out of the hall, announced the day before yesterday that there were no cuts and there were no cuts. He was wrong. He was wrong because it is one of the most severe cuts being made here and, frankly, the only cut in this budget. But they don't dare say what they're doing. It's cowardice. And sometimes it's a lie. That shouldn't be the case these days. But I also want to talk about how this draft has been discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It's an interesting experience to be on a video bridge in the Commission. It has its pros and cons. I have occasionally picked up and looked at who is in the committee session because some Members of the Commission never open their mouths. I want to know if they're still here. Looks like it is, but they're not participating. If, in a situation where even the chairman of the committee is incomprehensible as to why one or the other word is in the draft, and if there is a debate with officials, whether this should be the case or what was actually meant, then the remaining members of the coalition are perfectly clear. They know how it has to be, so what if it's actually a surprise in the course of disputes! It's gonna change. But they're so smart and they know. But somehow they do not want to talk to others about it, either to the chairman of the committee or to members of the opposition. I don't think they're really participating. And then I've been wondering why they're here in the Riigikogu. I always thought we'd come here to represent our constituents and work. I have a feeling people who don't speak at all, who don't participate, don't work. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe their constituents have just chosen to fill the place, and filling the place is the job. I don't know, maybe I'm wrong. But I would like their voters to know: their elected people in the Commission are not talking, they are silent, they are only voting as ordered. This bill, I have no naive hope that anything will change, remains on the conscience of the coalition ambassadors. Some say karma stays, some say God does, but I hope most of us have a conscience. It'll wake up at some point, and it'll tell you at some point that you did wrong, that you took advantage of the situation. And exploitation of the situation has been seen as very bad behaviour in all societies and at all times. You're being mean and wrong right now. And that's the reason, despite that...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U217	Please stop now!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U218	... that we do not want to participate in this bill. There's good things in here, but there's some really mean things in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U219	Dmitri Dmitriev, please! Three minutes extra, five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U220	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft, together with the draft additional budget law, is a complex countercyclical measure which should smooth out or rather mitigate the consequences of the spread of the disease caused by the corona virus. We may have different opinions on the measures proposed by different governments in this Chamber, but in an emergency, we should all understand that now is not the right moment for political attacks, because time is working against us and the future course of Estonia depends on the decisions we have made on time. I would also actually like to thank the opposition ambassadors here, who have discussed this draft constructively and without delay enough in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to stress once again that we may have different policy choices regarding the implementation of different measures, but the common aim of all of us is to help, as quickly and as effectively as possible, those strategically important economic sectors that suffer the most from the emergency situation, to help our people who are in a difficult situation, and also to help the local authorities in Estonia, who have added additional tasks and costs due to the spread of COVID-19 disease. When it comes to the content of the draft, both in the Chamber and in the Commission, there has been much controversy about the government's desire to reduce excise duties. Unfortunately, we have different perceptions of the implementation of excise policy, and that is why most of the criticisms from the Reform Party Group come from this. I would remind you that in 2016, the coalition led by the Centre Party decided that the excise duty on diesel would not rise. We are now in a situation where the excise duty on diesel needs to be partly reduced to support transport and logistics companies. This should also have a minor positive impact on the final consumer: it is expected to reduce the price of diesel by almost 15 euro cents per litre. For the same purpose, excise duties on both natural gas and electricity will be reduced. The latter will be reduced to EUR 1 per megawatt-hour, which is the minimum allowed by the European Union. For the final consumer, this would mean a 7% decrease in the cost of natural gas and a nearly 3% decrease in the cost of electricity. The reduction in excise duty rates also leads to a reduction in the revenue base of the state budget, which is clear. However, the income and income of many companies are currently decreasing, and we must respond to it with effective measures to prevent long-term stagnation at the time of exit from the crisis. Here, we have a different attitude from the Reform Party that led the government in the previous economic crisis, and instead of cutting policies, the Coalition of the Centre Party, the EKRE and the Isamaa will use rapid and intensive measures to halt the recession, which, according to the Ministry, may increase the debt burden to around 22% of GDP after the crisis. In order not to overtake the country's responsibilities, the new opinion of the Board requires a balanced and well-targeted approach to the development of economic aid measures, focusing specifically on those measures which have the greatest short-term impact. This has certainly been taken into account in the drafting process. In times of crisis, the state is determined to strongly support entrepreneurship. To this end, the financial resources needed for investment will be made more accessible by extending both the borrowing instruments and the loan guarantee scheme, which is often indispensable for the market failure in Estonian regions, such as housing. Due to the sharp increase in bank loans requiring additional guarantees, there is a need to increase the maximum volume of guarantee contracts for business loans in force in KredEx. In support of the self-employed, the state pays advances on social tax in the first quarter, and in order to improve the livelihood of companies with economic difficulties, EAMT fails to pay interest on tax debt in March and April, and the rate of interest calculated on double tax debt will be reduced until the end of 2021. These are only a few of the measures foreseen in bill 169. The Centre Party Group supports the adoption of a package of measures proposed by the Government of the Republic. This will certainly help to mitigate the negative economic impact of the spread of the COVID-19 disease-causing corona virus and is a sure step towards preparing the implementation of the exit strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U221	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland of Aivar Kokk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U222	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs for their very constructive work, as well as Commission officials, ministers and ministerial officials. It is not easy to work through one bill with dozens of changes in different laws in a few days. I believe that most of the Members of the Commission who have been involved have had half-insomniac nights for the last two weeks. They have tried to review that there are no things in the bill that shouldn't be there. I have to admit, sadly, that the draft law that came to us also contained the things that we had to exchange and improve in the Commission. And it is also sad to note that at the last moment, some things were tried to be misrepresented by officials. Our Commission's position has certainly always been clear that the drafts must meet two conditions: they must be for the people of Estonia and, secondly, for the business and economy of Estonia. If they are only targeted at one undertaking or anyone else, I think they are not the laws that should be discussed and adopted in this Chamber. Excise duties have caused a great deal of controversy. I recommend that all those who are very critical of the fall in excise duties look at the numbers of excise duties in the Nordic and other Baltic countries and see what Estonia is on the scene. It is not possible to compete in the economy, in business, if the prices of your inputs are significantly higher than those of your neighbours. Whether excise duties are downgraded is the right or wrong decision, it will be clear in one or two years' time. I hope that the Estonian road transport companies, who sent us letters and promised us that from May they would start refueling at Estonian filling stations, will keep their word. It's very simple: once you cheat, another time you don't believe in this company. At the same time, the impact of reducing these excise duties is felt by all people in Estonia, regardless of whether the person lives in an apartment building or a private house. It will also affect all businesses, whether they shop or they are an industrial company, because we all have energy consumption. Someone here has calculated whether he wins ten euros a year or more or less. I suggest you pick up the computer and calculate it with a little broader perspective and think about why no major new companies have come into the Estonian economy in recent years with energy-intensive production. Whether we want it or not is definitely another question. There are also a number of legislative amendments and amendments to this draft in order to come out of the crisis differently. On the next point, we are talking about an additional national budget. There's two things. At first, we planned to come up with two separate blocks: one in April and the other in May. One would have been the health side and the other would have been the recovery and recovery measures. The current crisis shows very clearly that urgent decisions must be taken. When it comes to quick decisions, it's always the fear that some decisions may be wrong, but as an entrepreneur, I know... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U223	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U224	... that the quick decision of was also the wrong decision of was better than indecisiveness. It might be too late to make decisions in a month or two. For example, we made income tax exemptions to the Saaremaa hospital in particular so that the subsidies to the hospital would not be subject to tax. Or that forest owners do not start selling their forest with land in times of crisis. We gave the possibility that, regardless of the form of ownership, EUR 5 000 would be exempt from income tax. Or the fact that we specified the money to go to the municipalities. It is very easy to take 130 million and simply use it to cover its costs and at the same time not to save costs. The second block is bringing investments to Estonia so that business does not collapse during the crisis. That's all that matters. I always remember one thing: the money we share comes only from business, not from anywhere else. If there is no entrepreneurship, there is no tax money that the state will re-distribute. The Fatherland supports this bill. He will monitor very closely the implementation of these laws so that there is no attempt to circumvent the conditions and requirements laid down. And the Committee on Monetary Affairs is, if you refer and wish, then review both the drafts, both this and the next draft, with a number of points on what the government must monitor, so that there is no situation in which one administration, one ministry or minister alone decides. Decisions are made by committees, but the final decision is taken by the government. I am already reading press releases that the MES Council has made decisions, even though the law has not yet been passed and the government has not confirmed anything. I would like to emphasise once again that we will certainly monitor the implementation of these measures in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and it is also written in that social measures must have passed through the Committee on Social Affairs. The first proposals have already been received by the Commission. So we in the Committee on Monetary Affairs must be able to ensure that, before decisions are finally taken, the money is distributed fairly and goes to the right place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U225	Thank you. There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. The negotiations are over. We have the commission's proposal for a final vote on the 169th draft. A majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft act. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will final vote on the draft law amending the laws relating to the State's additional budget for 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic (measures relating to the spread of the Corona virus causing COVID-19 disease). Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this draft, with 9 against. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U226	We're moving on to the agenda. The next item is the third reading of the State's Draft Supplementary Budget for 2020 Act 171 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur. Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U227	Thank you! Here's the procedural question. On Monday, the agenda was approved, according to which today's second item on the agenda was the third reading of draft 170. I understand why it is not here, but, as far as I know, the President of the sitting neither at the beginning of the sitting nor later specified why we are not addressing this point today. The agenda adopted here also states that there will be a third reading of this draft if the second one is closed. And the second reading just finished. So you could do the third reading on a purely formal basis. We're not gonna do that. Perhaps it would be important for the President of the sitting to mention this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U228	Thank you. The point is that today's third reading was conditionally on the agenda: in case the second reading was closed on Tuesday. And since the second reading was not completed on Tuesday, the third reading will automatically shift to next week's agenda. The Bureau discussed this yesterday and took such a summary on this issue. If that's all right, Mr. Chef, the chair is yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U229	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law on the State's additional budget for 2020 before the third reading on 14 April. Nine proposals from the Estonian Reform Party Group were received by the deadline for submitting amendments, by 9 a.m. on 14 April. The Finance Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry, produced an amendment consisting of related changes: a change in the title, changes in the area of government of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in relation to KredEx and an amendment relating to a proposal to amend § 16 of the 169 SE, which supplements the Income Tax Act with a view to equalising the collection of timber and the provision of ecosystem services in the use of forest land. The Commission disregarded the amendments received from the group, the reasons for which are set out in a separate document, the table of the amendments with the comments of the Ministry of Finance included in the email. The procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee were as follows: The Finance Committee proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading by 15 April and that a final vote be taken. The decisions were consensual. A majority of votes in favour is required for the adoption of the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U230	There are questions for the waitress. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U231	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. I wonder why all the amendments tabled by the political groups were disregarded.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U232	Thank you for a good question. Most of the amendments tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party were those tabled before the second reading, not all, but most. There were also fundamental amendments, the content of which stems from the different views of the opposition and coalition, starting with the rejection of excise duties and ending with the topic of the suspension of contributions from the second pension pillar. In this context, most of the Commission did not support these proposals. There was also one proposal, which was not supported by half of the members of the Estonian Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U233	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U234	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! On these days, you have spoken a lot on the subject of additional budgets in various media, and you have said at least so to understand that it is already known today that there will be another supplementary budget. In today's Postimees, you say specifically that this next additional budget will come in three months, so around 15 July. Is it going to be here in the Riigikogu on July 15th? Will the Riigikogu be called exceptionally in summer, or will the bill reach the government by 15 July and then at some point in time in the Riigikogu? When will the second additional budget this year reach the Committee on Monetary Affairs? Perhaps we should start preparing for the second supplementary budget in good time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U235	Thank you, Aivar, for the question. I have to admit, I haven't read this article myself, but I know what the journalist asked me yesterday. He asked if there was a chance that there might be another extra budget, and if so, when it might come. And I replied, about exactly, that if, in the current crisis situation, there are conditions, from closing the border to closing the shopping centres and most other shops, beyond May, there is certainly a need to discuss different measures again. If they can be prepared within a month, the draft could be brought to the Riigikogu if necessary. The dates, I hope, aren't in the paper. I didn't say any dates. I said it would make sense if it were July. To say today that there will be an additional budget, it is certainly early. Let's see what's going on around here. Much will certainly depend on when the borders open and the crisis restrictions are lifted. At present, practically 30% of entrepreneurship is in a position not to be able to engage in entrepreneurship, even if they wanted to. Many have gone to e-commerce, but there are many areas of small business where nothing can be done. Ladies have problems, including men's, today a woman said that all men's hair has grown longer because they can't get a haircut.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U236	Kaja Kallas, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U237	Thank you. I would like to come back to our amendments. We know that we really have different ideas about excise duties and the pension pillar, but we have tabled an amendment that is suitable for you as a source of cover. It was to allocate 40 million more to healthcare costs, so that people could also receive scheduled treatment, which they cannot receive at the moment due to the corona crisis. It was covered by a government reserve, which should also be suitable for the Minister of Finance. You can no longer get behind this argument that the source of the cover is wrong. What was the justification for not supporting the allocation of additional money to health care expenditure?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U238	Thank you very much for the right question, Kaja. The reasoning is very simple. We have the possibility of a sufficiently large reserve available to the government with an additional budget, and at the same time there is an additional budget of 200 million allocated to the sickness fund and a little bit more. If there is a need, the government has the right to react quickly and add money from its reserve to deal with these problems in an emergency. And if there is a need for more money, I believe that our entire hall will be ready to deal with this decision quickly. Looking at the budgetary possibilities, the additional budget currently gives the government the opportunities that each government will be happy to see.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U239	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U240	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I also personally thank you and the other Members of the Commission for the work that has been done. No one doubts that it has been big and important. At the same time, I think that many Estonian people expected the political parties represented in the Riigikogu and the political forces of Estonia to find greater consensus in this situation, especially in making such weighty decisions. This has been possible with our northern neighbours in Finland. Unfortunately, not in Estonia, nor can it be seen that it is very desired. After all, your coalition partner Martin Helme said directly in ETV that it is still planned to pursue the politics of his party, and that's just the way it is. My question is more general. Do you not find it regrettable that the opportunity to find greater unity, togetherness, to achieve this in both the Riigikogu and society in general was missed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U241	Thank you, good Raimond! The honest answer is, of course, it's a shame. One reason certainly is that there has been a very short period of procedure. But the second, which I think is much more important, is that if we had time to deal with two blocks separately, on the one hand, health and social support measures, and on the other hand, economic measures, on the other hand, when there may be different concepts and approaches to economic measures, then, in the case of social measures, I believe, the majority of us share 90% of the same perceptions. Maybe there's a difference in details. I agree with you that I definitely should have found that time. If there had been another week, there would have been much more discussions and they would have been more constructive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U242	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U243	Thank you. Good waitress! I will come back to the Commission's debate once. There were certainly some proposals for which the source of cover was not suitable. For example, such a proposal was to increase support for the tourism sector and small businesses through EAS. Please open the door to what alternative sources of cover would have been suitable for the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U244	Thank you, Andres! We should look at the budget as a whole. We are somehow trying to look at one measure, thinking that one measure is for companies in one area. At the moment, we have almost the most dispute in the Commission about the measures taken by the MES. After all, measures 3/4 of the MES are those that can be used by all companies in rural areas, be it any form of enterprise. There are no restrictions. We are used to the support of agriculture, forestry and fisheries by the MES. In fact, according to the articles of association, it is the task of the MES to support the entire rural economy. To be honest, I was upset when I read a few days ago that the MES Council made a decision. Andres, I remember very well that we have written down that decisions will be taken in such a way that, first of all, the framework agreement must be introduced in our committee and the decisions will finally be taken by the government. No final decision will be taken by the Council; the Council will make proposals. These are state enterprises, foundations, organisations. I certainly consider the entire work of our committee to be very important in order to ensure that there is no situation where money is being spilled off the plane. That would be the worst thing, and after that, I'm sure this hall won't let any of these laws pass again. We have given the mandate now, but we have also written in the explanatory memorandum to the law and also in the law four points that need to be taken into account. I know that the first ministries have already sent us measures, at least the so-called social side has already arrived. These measures will be discussed by the Commission and, if necessary, we will propose improvements. I stress once again that these funds must go to the right place. They must not have been spilled off the plane or, as I like to say, it is not Christmas time where Christmas packages are simply distributed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U245	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U246	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! Unfortunately, in the first supplementary draft budget before us, the train has gone. The Government Union was not prepared to support any of the opposition's proposals; unfortunately, all cooperation during the crisis was excluded. But you stand today as the representative of the government coalition in the Riigikogu's pulpit in front of the Estonian people. Can you make a promise to the opposition and to the Estonian people that if we start to draw up a second supplementary budget soon, then, like our northern neighbours, the government union will involve the opposition in its drafting from the very beginning?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U247	Thank you. I cannot make any promises on behalf of the government; I can make promises on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs as chairman of the committee. We gave the draft to all the committees, we addressed all the committees. We have examined the proposals made by all the committees that have presented us with the proposals. These proposals are both proposals from the Committee on Culture and the solution agreed with the Committee on Social Affairs, either within this supplementary budget or within the bill adopted a moment ago. When economic measures come, it is certainly right that they should also be discussed with all the parties involved in the coalition. At the same time, there are certainly issues where, simply because of different world views, disputes may remain. But there should be consensus on most of the topics.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U248	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U249	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, The question of the suspension of payments under the second pillar. It is permissible, and the draft also provides that the part of the return which, in the meantime, falls short of those who continue to pay will be compensated by the State. However, Kaspar Oja has written in his published article yesterday that this return on recovery is probably significant. The article states that such borrowing for the State could in essence cost 40 times more. We have heard from the Minister of Finance that at the moment, the state is able to obtain a loan of almost zero interest. Looking at the previous economic crisis, we can see that borrowing a loan in which people also have to be reimbursed for loss of earnings can mean a loan of 7 to 8 percent. In essence, it could be said that this is a state-owned SMS loan. Why are we taking such expensive tea? And who is responsible if the percentages that must be compensated for people turn out to be so high?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U250	Thank you for a good question. You started by saying there could be 40 times the difference. I'd like to see a pension fund now that has achieved a yield of this percentage. If you can tell me anything, I'm taking my pension to the second pillar of the fund. We will see this in two years' time or in the autumn of next year, whether or not the productivity of any pension fund has increased, it is negative or not. However, the Commission made amendments to the draft sent to the Riigikogu, which concern compensating the difference. And when I look you in the eye, I sincerely ask: why should I, or you, be such a young man that I don't know if you've joined the second pension pillar, if the state takes that money away from me, loses that return? The state is using that money. If today's question is whether this is a useful or harmful transaction, then we can say the answer when this restriction ends. If I remember correctly, it's September 1, 2021. Then we'll see if the pension funds' productivity has recovered by this point, it's negative, or it's zero. Then we can tell if this is the wrong decision or not. If we look at the current budget balance, then the cost of the second pension pillar is currently being saved by the state and is being used to implement the budget expenditure. And one of the costs is the pensions it covers. So it's a two-way thing. I totally understand your question. Maybe it would have been better to just take a loan and take a risk with it, but the other way around, if you're accounting, it's probably the right decision. Whether it feels right in a year and a half or not, that's what you and I will find out in a year and a half. We can look at each other and see which side of the truth is on. Today it cannot be said that one solution is more correct and the other formula. As for somebody's article, one person writes to me, "I don't know what kind of party he belongs to us all the time. He's signing a name I can't find anywhere by Google. If I sign who I am and where I am, he doesn't care, but he asks me the same questions 28 times. Jürgen's good at writing back, he's putting away some kind of pear through the humor. I don't dare, or I've been raised in a different way, but that's not how I write the answers. But at one point, I'm definitely not answering e-mails that aren't signed, who I'm still gonna have to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U251	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U252	Thank you. In declaring the emergency situation, the government asked the opposition and society at large for cooperation, co-ordination and a time without criticism. And he got a lot of it. In the public, both the media and the opposition have been holding back very much in criticising government decisions, although there is little to deny, but there is no reason for it from time to time, and not little. And the result, or the Estonian language, is now more accurate to say the result has been that this time was used as a regular roller. The opposition made many constructive proposals, which are in no way party policy and concern, for example, additional health care money, support for entrepreneurs, and specifically support for Saaremaa. How did it happen that you could not support any proposals that were made constructively and in a spirit of cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U253	Thank you, Javier! Let us start by saying that it is not quite the case that all the proposals were constructive. I guess there were some people who were trying, like, one way or the other, and they were also the result of the world view. There were also issues that have actually been resolved in the draft. And the solution is, as I said before in answering one question, that there are actually two very good lines in the supplementary budget. One is the government reserve side and the other is the investment part, which can also be used by the government if necessary. If a critical situation arises, it can be used from 50 million reserves. If there is a shortage and more money is needed, we need to come here and agree on something, but most of these improvements now have a solution. The only good proposal that could have been taken into account for a little more time was Aivar Sõerd's proposal. Unfortunately, there are no separate lines of payroll and economic costs in the current state budget. I liked the proposal. I would have increased this figure considerably, too, but unfortunately, the state budget has not been written out like that of the local authorities, which have broken down the economic costs and the wage costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U254	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U255	Thank you! Margaret Thatcher should be quite familiar to your party as a political figure. One of his peculiarities was that he always tried to understand very well in the decisions of his government, what they mean to a person on the street, how much he wins, how much he loses as a result of what the government does. I, too, have received many letters in recent weeks and I am still sitting here and answering to many people who write about how this crisis affects them. And I get a lot of letters from the self-employed. There are taxi drivers, there are hairdressers, but there are also our cultural people among these people. Some say that their problem is that today there is no money to pay rent, to pay loans. But at the same time, hopefully after a while, they'll be able to buy a little cheaper fuel. Do you think that this bill, which is before us today, treats all workers equally to those who work on a basis other than a classic employment contract? And will this bill, if approved, increase or reduce inequality in our society?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U256	Thank you. I hope you've read this bill properly. If you've read it properly, I'll start at one end: I'll start at the cultural, sporting and creative sides. Can you tell me how much money there is and how long it will be paid? I can tell. I think it's just really hard to read this bill like that so you can understand it. It has been written up with the legislative changes that we adopted here a moment ago, that it is possible to support people working in the creative field as well as sportsmen, or coaches, within six months of the minimum wage, without being subject to very many claims in comparison to, for example, the unemployment fund. When we talk about self-employment as a form of enterprise, under this law, the social tax obligations of the first quarter are suspended, they do not have to make this payment. On Monday, I said in this debate on the same bill here, that during the previous term, there was a debate, I think that now perhaps there is no debate as to whether, for all forms of employment, there must be an opportunity to pay the unemployment fund if necessary. Let's not only talk about self-employed people, we are also talking about corporate board members, who maybe are CEOs, whose salaries are very high and they have paid income tax and social tax, but according to the law they have not been able to pay this 2%. That's why I fought here during the last term, I don't know, six months, but a little unsuccessful. I have asked the Ministry of Finance to prepare a draft as a matter of urgency aimed at giving the possibility to pay unemployment insurance for all forms of employment. If a person has not used it, we can say that he himself has acted negligently. We can't say that today. And we have 10 million in EAS today, where a lot is meant for these micro-enterprises. Whether 10 million is little or much, it is now very difficult to say. This money is likely to melt faster now than we can imagine. And the other side is the MES. I hope there's control in the MES right now. I can see that those on the first bench are nodding tens of times bigger than it's ever been. On the opposition side, Urmas is a member of this committee; there must be more than a week of challenges for the Commission. We have a very important clause in the law: all subsidies granted to legal persons, including companies, must be public. Perhaps the instance who distributes grants must publish them on its website, they must be available in one click. This will certainly eliminate the possibility of very much sharing money with the so-called "owns." We can also monitor whether subsidies are not distributed in such a way that some sectors are not given at all, even if it is necessary, or some sector is too well supported again. I have been called this morning by many of the managers of large farms. They have only one concern: if, at least by July, it was decided that men from Ukraine could come on tractors and combines. Strawberry growers and vegetable growers, however, would like to get a job today. If that decision is reached, the rest of the troubles will be solved. Of this 250 million, a large proportion should certainly go to small and micro-enterprises in rural areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U257	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U258	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! However, this necessary proposal of mine to cut costs was voted out. This means that the budget still goes on without cuts in expenditure. Revenue falls away, the additional budget adds to the costs, which means that the difference between revenue and expenditure in the current budget is increasing. Now a loan of 200 + 750 million has been taken in the meantime, amounting to 950 million. How much of this loan money has already been spent today, it is impossible to obtain information about this. I've seen that maybe there's a hit on the Ministry of Finance's website. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. December 31, 2019 will be the last. Do you know how much of this 950 million loan taken in April and late March has been used up today? And let's make it clear whether the liquidity reserve number that was last, we checked, 630 million, is that loan money, or is the loan money somewhere separate?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U259	I can tell you that the loan is separate. I'll send it to you when we're done. I have this message sent yesterday. Aivar, I'm sending it to you, there's been so many messages today that I can't find it fast. If it's okay with you, I'll send you those numbers after the report.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U260	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U261	Thank you. To clarify my previous question, I assure you that, of course, I believe that if pension payments are suspended, this must be compensated for to the person. My question was whether the state would behave reasonably at all if it would stop them. The Pension Fund does not have to show a return of 40%, 7% is sufficient, as bonds can be borrowed with 0.175%. But the question was that the Reform Party Group had a proposal to grant 100 million very favourable loans to local governments to cover the gap in the local governments' income base, so that investments would not be made and perhaps new investments would be planned, which in turn will help the people of local governments to get better investments and in the same way to stimulate the economy. Why was it decided not to support it? And the source of the cover would have been to take out a favorable loan. The Minister of Finance has repeatedly said that it can be obtained at zero interest or minus interest. That shouldn't have been a problem either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U262	Thank you. Mart, I don't think your party would have wanted you to ask that question. But I'll answer it. This proposal was supported by two members in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and for very simple reasons. In the 2014 Finance Minister's regulation, I hope that I am not wrong with the number 50 signed by Jürgen Ligi, it says that all loans, if they are to be granted, must be granted under the same conditions as the bank. Then, ultimately, there is no financial percentage difference. So far, as far as I know, the state has not lent directly to the municipalities. So Jürgen Ligi, our Member of the Commission, explained to us in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U263	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U264	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! One measure by KredEx is to renovate 100 million apartments. Can you explain the contents to us? What kind of perspective is that? We are talking today about the crisis and the resolution of the crisis, but when we listened to these presentations, we did not fully understand in the Committee on Rural Affairs how this is a crisis measure. Fat blood and trouble have also been caused by the fact that there was a plan to leave Tartu and Tallinn out of it, to use pilot projects there. This means trying to find a solution to the so-called factory renovation: ordering certain shields from the factory, developing them. I was not able to answer on what basis these operators were selected. In fact, there is quite a problem in the construction market and it is asked who this measure is intended for.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U265	Thank you, Urmas! I thank you again for this question. If you now look at the improvements in second reading and third reading, then on the one hand, this problem is solved. There are no rental apartments or factory-made insulation panels in this 100 million. Of this 100 million, 27 million have now been reduced to the point that about 22 million are foreseen for KredEx to be able to lend to housing associations that are farther away from the county centre, to whom banks refuse to grant loans, because the sales value of houses in this area is unfortunately low. The condition is that the cooperative must ask the bank if the bank does not give or give on very bad terms, then KredEx is entitled to do so. And $5 million went to KredEx to raise the share capital, and the rest of the money will be for renovation of apartment buildings today. Most of it, at least 50% of it should go to rural areas, but certainly this money will also go to Tallinn and Tartu. Currently there are projects for renovation or reconstruction of apartment buildings in KredEx drawer 250. This measure is always underfunded. Once, when this measure was opened in 2017, it was intended for four years. But in one year, everything was done. Then there was a bit of a quick jump on the market, and everyone took the chances, and the rest of the time, nothing happened. But what does this have to do with the crisis situation? Very simple! One part of the package is support for entrepreneurship. There's two sides now. One is that companies can get jobs in the construction sector and the sector that sells construction materials, and the other half is the CO2 side. We have targets by 2035. We're gonna hit two birds with one stone. At a time when many private operators fail to invest in the crisis, the state has decided that it will invest. I hear a lot of criticism from the local government leaders who say that everything that is now meant to invest in roads and buildings, the 100 million, should be given just for living. It is certainly not supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We support the municipalities because they would otherwise not have any investment this year. But there is also one condition: all investments must be made with the same state aid support. All investments must be made! Yesterday a parish elder told me I had three objects, I stopped them all right now, but when I get public money, I'll see how much money I get, but then I'll do one. That's not right. The aim is certainly that we keep the volume of investment as high as possible, so that there will be no fall in the business of certain sectors where there is no decline today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U266	Urmas Kruuse, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U267	Thank you. Certainly, the behaviour of the state should not be such that it is forced to take a huge amount of credit in order to make the planned investments. Everything has to be within a reasonable framework, and this 80% can be very quickly filled with falling revenues. This is actually a very big problem. But my question was about the MES, which you marked yourself. During this debate, various parties asked different questions and one question was this. From the perspective of the European Commission, it is a crisis measure that will be implemented, for example, until the end of this year and with a maximum term of six years. In the case of land capital, the maximum term of the contract was 20 years, if I am not mistaken. How is this really in line with the crisis measure? Shouldn't conditions be equal? The crisis has certainly not reached certain agricultural sectors in a bad way yet, and it may not be, but we are dealing with the situation so differently. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U268	Thank you. The Committee on Monetary Affairs took the same view as you pointed out: six years, and that's it. My little fear of selling these lands is that, and I put it on the head of the MES so that it doesn't give us the opportunity to just make a business project. I have to admit that if I were the landlord today, I would give it to the MES, I would get money for it, and I believe that in August it would be quite reasonable to start buying real estate in Tallinn and the same way in Tartu. And in six years, the real estate price has risen to the same level again, and I could pay back all the loans. Some here shake their heads, but let's be honest that those entrepreneurs who have already pawned their land and are trying to sell it to the MES are a little bit of what they get there. I think in six years this country will be the land of the MES. Farmers must have five very good summers to get out of this situation. The company is already in so much difficulty that it is very difficult to get out of there. We clearly said in the Commission to the Minister that this measure can be a crisis measure; it cannot be a 20 or 30-year measure; it is a six-year measure. Once again, once the government has confirmed it, there will be 20 years. The government hasn't confirmed that. Today, an unemployment fund measure has been agreed, which will be used this month, and a KredEx measure, which has been allocated just over 100 million. All measures relating to the additional budget and the previous legislative package must go through the government's decision-making process.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U269	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U270	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I will come back to the subject of housing in the same key. This was one of many unfortunate examples where, for example, the guarantee limit was raised from 170 to 500 million and, as it turned out at the last minute, it was with a four-year outlook. We have always said that we are implementing measures with an additional budget that are immediate, rapid and designed to resolve the crisis. Four years is certainly too long foresight, and it would have needed to be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U271	Thank you, Andres! This is where we both have to look in the mirror. As we finally understood in the debate, we are too late with this. We didn't notice it in time, we should have noticed last week on Thursday. In bill 169, this decision had already been made; we were unable to make this change in the supplementary budget any more. But you're right that we missed it. In our debate, it was 240 million or 250 million, I remember. In 169 of this bill, it was prescribed by the 500 million government or ministry. I guess it's a lesson for both of us that even more, even more attentively, you have to keep track of all these numbers. But ultimately, if we made that decision today, either we do it today or we would have done it in a year's time, well, that's a relief. But I am, Andres, with you, and we wanted to change that on the committee, but we were already late.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U272	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U273	Thank you. Since there seem to be no more questions, I am asking not what will help us with the current budget, but what could be "wisdom" for future generations. The 2020 budget is personally the first to chair the Committee on Monetary Affairs. When this was discussed last autumn, there was a serious debate about whether this budget should be made in surplus or in balance or in minus, as has finally happened. Last autumn we all lived in the knowledge that 2020 will be a year of rapid economic growth. Now, if we look back at this time and think about the future budgets, which I hope will be able to do again under the conditions of economic growth, what would you say? Would it be wise to plan the budget in good times in the future so that it ends up? Would it be easier to face the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U274	Thank you, Tavi, for a good question. If I were as wise as my husband after making that decision, or solving the problem, it would be very easy. You're right. I cannot argue for a moment that, in most cases, the budget should be balanced. But I am certainly now expressing my personal position, not the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, nor my party. There's been one mistake in our state budget. In fact, our loan burden has been too low. This may be looked at in the same way, but, in fact, if there had been some real investment, it would have been easier to survive this crisis in certain places. At the same time, I also admit all the time that our budget has not been able to favour a large debt burden for very simple reasons. We have wanted to join the European Union and we have wanted to join the euro money system, and we have to admit that this has resulted in a budget balance for the most part. If you ask me now, yes, I support a balanced budget, but sometimes there is a need to make certain investments and take out a loan if it is the right time in the economy when prices are down and it is possible to borrow cheaply. If construction prices are also cheap, perhaps investments should be made. Javi, you're right, I can't argue with that. However, it must be said that if we did not have the conditions to join the European Union and the euro, there would certainly have been other decisions in the government under the leadership of your party in the last decade. However, these decisions could not be made for a simple reason: it was important to join the European Union and the Eurosystem. And a hat in front of all the people who were in this hall at the time or in the government who made those decisions!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U275	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. I'm opening a round of negotiations. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U276	Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party does not support the coalition's intention to push through the political Brezhnev package with an additional budget. From the outset, we promised that the Reform Party would not prevent the constructive and constructive processing of the additional budget in order to help the Estonian people and businesses cope with this crisis as quickly and as well as possible. We also expected an inclusive and constructive debate from the coalition, and Jüri Ratas promised this at the beginning of the emergency situation. Unfortunately, the reality has been different. The coalition did not involve the public or experts in the debate on the additional budget and added costly measures, the feasibility of which raises questions, to say the least. Instead, more money could have been directed towards health care, so that people could also continue to receive scheduled treatment, and that people's incomes would increase, or it is right now to say that incomes would not decrease. Several steps have been included in the crisis budget, which are unreasonable and have nothing to do with the crisis. The Reform Party cannot, in principle, vote in favour of a bill that wants to take the wrong steps during a crisis. The suspension of payments under the second pillar, acts of action, a vague transfer of funds to the Rural Promotion Foundation is not justified at this stage of the crisis. Abuse of the crisis in the strict pursuit of party interests could have been avoided. But the government did not resist this temptation. The proposals of the Reform Party, which were directly aimed at mitigating the effects of the crisis, were voted down by the Government Union without any substantive discussion. For example, we proposed that instead of reducing excise duties, additional money should be directed towards health care, so that people who have diseases other than Corona are not treated. We wanted KredEx to have a separate aid measure for small businesses and self-employed people, because they have the least margin of strength to survive this crisis. We considered it necessary to channel more money into the special fund for COVID-19 in order to alleviate regional shock and help the regions affected by the crisis, especially Saaremaa, and to increase the capacity of the sickness and unemployment fund to support people during the crisis. The Coalition also did not support the Reform Party's proposal to prepare public savings based on the reduction of state tax revenues. Despite the fact that the crisis budget cannot be supported in this form, the Reform Party does not intend to vote against it. The budget provides for steps which we consider urgent approval to be necessary. For example, the rapid provision of support to people-businesses through the unemployment and sickness fund and KredEx to prevent income losses is indispensable. In conclusion, the coalition's tactics have been by force to push its policies through, to reject sensible proposals and to refrain from broad-based cooperation. Therefore, the Reform Party will not support this additional budget, which will be voted as a Brezhnev package, but we will not vote against it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U277	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U278	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, our birthday child today and the Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Aivar Kokk, have conducted all these meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the same depth as he has answered all the questions here today. And I can tell Maris Lauri that all the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, although perhaps they are not speaking or discussing at these electronic meetings, have done quite a lot of work in advance, either indirectly or directly, in the preparation of these same drafts. I am very pleased that the opposition ranks with Andres and Maris, as well as Riina, who is not present today, are constantly asking very constructive questions, and they have always been answered very correctly. But at the end of February, Statistics Estonia wrote that Estonia's gross domestic product increased by 4.3% in 2019 and that 4% was promised for the following years. That's until the chorona virus that started in China zeroed its prognosis. The spread of this virus in the rest of the world and in our country has left quite a mark, and on the night of March 12, when the government took the opportunity to declare a state of emergency, different restrictions were imposed. The imposition of these restrictions has essentially affected the economic activity of our country as a whole, but subsequent decisions, which were indeed the only one, have started to offer some relief to today's critical situation. Under favourable conditions, EUR 750 million of public loans have been made to finance the measures needed to mitigate the economic and social impact of the Coronavirus pandemic. Madis Müller, the Governor of Eesti Pank, considers it reasonable to include additional funds in the government's decision, who says that the current lending is well-founded in the event of an economic downturn. The loan will help the state alleviate the economic difficulties that have fallen on businesses and emerge from the crisis. Indeed, the Estonian economy has been hit hard, and experts estimate that we are facing a drop of at least 10%. If we were talking about a fall of 8% in the past, then in reality, the result could be even more negative. And to soften this blow, the government has developed today's supplementary budget, which has passed first and second reading and is today's third reading. It is worth nearly EUR 2.6 billion. The package of aid measures will provide support to businesses and workers most affected by the crisis. A large part of the aid package is a EUR 500 million revolving loan that the state will distribute to companies through KredEx. The micro and small enterprises and the tourism sector, which will be supported separately through the Enterprise Development Foundation, will not be left alone with their concerns. The crisis has forced many entrepreneurs to make very difficult choices in their staff, and therefore the unemployment fund has put more than EUR 250 million into a measure that helps to maintain employees' income in emergency situations. During the last ten years of the economic crisis, local authorities remained in the role of orphans. At the time, the revenue base and the fine-tuning fund of local governments were severely reduced, and this was a very painful blow for several years. After all, the income base itself fell when there was unemployment, if there were any poor circumstances. I congratulate the government, which did not take this path this time, because the scars it has received in the past are always very difficult to alleviate. This time EUR 130 million will be allocated to local authorities, of which... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U279	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U280	... EUR 100 million is for investment and 30 million for mitigating the effects of the corona crisis. I myself like the decision, which has been very criticised here, to give the Rural Promotion Foundation this additional budget of EUR 200 million to support rural entrepreneurship very strongly by granting loans. It is completely wrong to see that rural enterprise consists exclusively of agriculture. There are very diverse forms of enterprise in rural entrepreneurship, and these companies are very, very difficult in the current situation. The Health Insurance Fund also has an additional EUR 200 million, and this money is intended to support the work of our hospitals, our doctors, ambulance workers, nurses and other health care professionals on a good level in exceptional circumstances. Of course, support measures will also continue in all other sectors, but we will no doubt face difficult times, and I really do not doubt that the second supplementary budget is also coming. But this extra budget I ask you all to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U281	Thank you very much. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U282	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, the choices made in this crisis budget are overlooking a great many people. As Estonia needs a large-scale rescue package, it was actually clear as soon as we had a special situation due to the corona virus. Let me remind you, it's going to be five weeks tomorrow. The pace of the pandemic, with further restrictions, rapidly increased the need for effective crisis measures. In the second half of March, the Social Democrats called on the government to rush the crisis budget by submitting it to the Riigikogu so that companies and people in difficulty would receive support from the state as soon as possible. Unfortunately, some of the companies have gone down by now. For a large number of companies, state aid is literally a matter of life and death. Unfortunately, meeting the budget and handing it over to Parliament went beyond what was expected. At this point, we cannot fail to mention that our southern neighbours, the Latvians, already adopted their package of crisis measures in Seim on 20 March. The crisis budget must only solve and alleviate the problems and problems associated with the crisis. Our firm position was that initiatives and changes that are not affected by the crisis should not be introduced, nor did the electoral promises of coalition parties and other things with a party-like taste. Unfortunately, political parties in the government were not overcome by the temptation to cover up the crisis as well as party politics. Let us, for example, consider the decision of Fatherland's obsession to go after the second pillar of the pension and to suspend funded pension payments. This is a stupid, irresponsible and expensive step. Why do you have to put your hand in the purse of future pensioners when we have the opportunity to borrow money from the money markets, at a favourable price? Or are excise cuts of questionable value at a time when the medical system and the social sector need extra money like oxygen? The sixth week of emergency is about to begin and, unfortunately, there will be more weeks. It is clear that we are facing a rather deep economic crisis. Eesti Pank predicted a recession of up to 14% this year a few weeks ago, and many institutions have seen the perspective even darker. In this situation, how people and businesses are managed is vitally important. In this way, cooperation with the company representative organisation and the trade unions, at first glance, was accompanied by very nice measures, which seemed reasonable in every way. Unfortunately, the government association ignored the important fact: the remuneration does not extend to employees with employment and management contracts, even though not to self-employed persons. The solution proposed by the Socialists would have provided relief to these problems, but the coalition voted down our proposal with numbness. Business grants are accompanied by constant confusion and ignorance about who receives the aid, how much and how. They're talking about Tallink and Bolt. The Minister of Finance is bragging about personal impressions, but there are no agreed rules. What about all the other Estonian companies? Loan and surety subsidies for small businesses are linked to strict requirements to put their personal property together with crisp interest as collateral. Afraid a lot of people don't dare and can't go down that road. It's more risk-free to put your hands up and declare bankruptcy. The key issue today is how to help people who are most vulnerable in the crisis now and immediately. However, the budget does not provide answers to this, although it should have. The Social Democrats have proposed a number of amendments to the supplementary budget, focusing on families with children and older people living through the crisis more painfully, so that people who lost their jobs and income would not be able to train their children. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U283	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U284	Thank you. We requested that the state pay EUR 500 per child in school for families with children. This step would have helped families to reimburse the expenses associated with the sudden transition to home education, and it was unexpected for everyone. These costs are often significant. For example, one Läänemaa family with two children of school age calculated that in March alone their fixed costs increased by 300 euros. The Internet, home expenses, food costs, not to mention that some children needed a new computer, a new chair, or a table. The crisis has exacerbated the problems of nursing homes. We proposed that, in an emergency, the difference between the cost of a nursing home and the pension should be compensated, which would alleviate the economic situation of both the elderly and their loved ones in need of care. In Estonia, pensioners living alone are a social group at the greatest risk of poverty. Many of them are supported by children and grandchildren, many of them facing reduced incomes and a future of uncertainty. That is why we proposed to pay the allowance for pensioners living alone twice a year instead of once this year: both in the spring and in the autumn. None of the opposition's proposals found mercy in the eyes of the government departments. Crisis can unite and divide society. Basic empathy is needed in order for us to be strong in the crisis. This requires notice, helping the weak, and working together. Unfortunately, as sad as it may seem, there are still no signs that the Centre Party or the Fatherland and the EKRE would also like to confirm the Prime Minister's words of 'our society' by their actions. In conclusion, the additional budget of the government sums up the old good expression 'too little and too late'. That is why the Socialist Group cannot support this additional budget in any way in the vote, and we will vote against it. However, as irreparable optimists, we hope that the government will understand its mistakes as soon as possible and will quickly come up with a new supplementary budget, which will also give the opposition the opportunity to vote in favour of it. This is necessary so that our people are not devastated by the crisis and that we can get out of it as a society as strong as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U285	Thank you. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please! The Management Board shall grant an additional period of three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U286	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the Government of the Republic and all the authorities that have prepared this additional draft budget. It has been a very voluminous work that has been done in a very short time. And I also thank all the political groups and members of the Riigikogu who have dealt with this draft as a matter of urgency and have really dealt with it in substance. These discussions alone and the criticisms that have been made have been very helpful in the completion of the budget. This budget has also changed here in the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu has not been simply a stamp who is going to approve the initial budget sent from the government in an unchanged manner today. But I do not agree in any way with the criticism of this opposition, which just came from here: too little and too late. First of all, this volume is exceptionally large for the additional budget. There has probably not been an additional budget of this size in Estonia in the past, and so quickly. This is the first stage of the crisis. We do not rule out the need to come here and make another supplementary budget, on the basis of the practical consequences that have actually taken place. As regards the accusation that it is too late, so far the adoption of an additional budget has not led to the launch of any urgent measures. All or almost all of the measures covered by the supplementary budget have been operational. Their implementation has begun, their implementation in practice has begun, be it labour market measures, be it KredEx's different measures, be it additional funds for the health insurance fund or elsewhere in the health care system, these funding is open and there are no quick steps left behind these decisions. In a few words, however, to talk briefly about the content of the budget, this whole economic recovery package is very thoughtful and constructive. However, the focus of this practical implementation remains on implementing bodies, how they can specifically implement these measures in practice, communicate with economic operators, and see the needs of different sectors. Flexibility is not even necessary at the level of the government, but above all at the level of the implementing agencies. It is probably right that they need additional resources, as well as additional knowledge, to do all this, but I very much want to acknowledge, at the preparatory stage, the people of the Rural Promotion Foundation, Enterprise Development Foundation, KredEx and other implementing bodies who will have to implement it. For example, labour market measures have already been discussed here, and I am not going to repeat the health-care-sickness package. At present, the focus is on borrowing and in conditions where borrowing is favourable and so do other countries, it is well-founded. We're not going into our reserves for the first time, but we're giving the authority to deploy reserves if necessary. But, as the government has confirmed in this debate, first of all, we still prefer favourable loans as long as possible. I think this tactic and approach is absolutely right and justified. In the process of drawing up the supplementary budget, it has been criticised as if it was also trying to implement party political promises and objectives that are not linked to the crisis. That's not really the case. There has been more criticism of the allocation to local authorities and the Rural Promotion Foundation. The total amount of EUR 130 million for local authorities is intended precisely to alleviate the crisis situation. That money's divided into three. One part of the investment is for local governments, so that municipalities whose income base decreases in the same way this year, according to initial estimates by the Ministry of Finance, would not give up the investments planned for that year. For many, procurements have already been announced, in some cases even procurements have been approved. It can boost entrepreneurship in the same way as the state does. And in the case of the state budget, we have not gone down the road of cutting business-related procurement. The possibility of cut-off and solidarity must be found elsewhere. But in the first phase of the crisis, the country will not, in turn, deepen and amplify the economic crisis. We are giving the same signal to local authorities: the state must help to make targeted investments. It has been criticised here that this money is only meant for new investments, but I assure you that this is not the case. Read the supplementary budget in full together with the explanatory memorandum. This money can also be used by municipalities for investments already planned. There is no need to give up planned investments and to artificially think of new investments. So there is flexibility and a targeted focus on both road and other investment is a targeted economic recovery objective. EUR 30 million is targeted crisis aid to cover local governments' costs for services provided in different areas of life. It would otherwise be difficult to cover even the most distressing additional costs in the social sphere, in the educational sphere and elsewhere. There has been a separate talk about the Rural Promotion Foundation, a criticism that it is not a crisis measure. This is a full crisis measure. And there's tourism down here. Tourism can also be supported through the Rural Promotion Foundation, and this is probably sensible and necessary. And this so-called land package is a very sensible package. The previous major crisis in this sector, too, has shown that during the crisis, very many farmers have had to sell their land, which is the main means of production in agriculture, and thus has also lost the right to benefit from the common agricultural policy (CAP) in the European Union. These are decisions with long-term implications and consequences. At the moment, we are going to help with a temporary measure implemented through the Rural Promotion Foundation. We will retain for farmers their basic means of production, or land, as property in the long term, as well as the right to payment. Therefore, this is a fully justified crisis measure. I think anyone who knows a little about agriculture will understand that. In summary, I call on you all to support this bill. This is a very good and sensible package of assistance as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U287	Thank you. There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. We will examine the amendments. The first draft amendment 171 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the commission has proposed that it be fully taken into account. The second amendment, made by the Reform Party Group, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. The third amendment, which has also been tabled by the Reform Party Group, is not to be voted on. The fourth amendment is also from the Group of the Reform Party, and the lead committee has proposed that it be disregarded, and it is not to be voted on either. The fifth amendment, as well as from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, has been proposed by the commission to disregard it and it is not to be voted on either. The sixth amendment, as well as from the Reform Party Group, proposed by the commission: disregard the proposal, the proposal is not to be voted on. The seventh amendment, as well as from the Group of the Reform Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee and the proposal is not to be voted on. The eighth amendment, as well as from the Group of the Reform Party, has decided not to do so, and this proposal, too, is not to be voted on. The ninth amendment, as well as the proposal of the Reform Party Group, from the commission of directors, should not be taken into account, nor should this proposal be voted on. And the tenth amendment is also from the Group of the Reform Party, and the decision of the commission is to disregard it and this proposal is not to be voted on either. We have examined the amendments to the draft law on the additional budget for 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic, and we can go to the final vote. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote draft law 171 on the additional budget of the state initiated by the Government of the Republic in 2020. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U288	Let's move on to the agenda. The fourth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Rescue Act and the Weapons Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. It is possible to open negotiations. There's a negotiation request. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U289	Ladies and gentlemen, Good coalition ambassadors! In your case, there seems to be some sort of rule that something unnecessary or very harmful is being grafted on to a good thing, something that cannot be said in any way that the Riigikogu supported this draft by consensus. This is also the case with this draft. Although we support the regularisation of the crisis assistance information line 1247, we cannot support the sharing of sensitive personal data as proposed in this draft. The European Data Protection Regulation first states that the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data is a fundamental right for individuals. Article 8, first paragraph, of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article 16, first paragraph, of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provide that everyone has the right to the protection of their personal data. In accordance with the Data Protection Regulation, personal data are any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person and the natural person identifiable is a person who can be identified directly or indirectly, in particular on the basis of identification identifiers such as name, personal identification code, location information, network identifier, and one or more physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social features of the natural person. Why am I reading this? Just to understand that the data mentioned in section 1 (10) of the bill is personal data. They apply to this person and they fall within the definition of this regulation. The processing of personal data is lawful where, in principle, one of the following conditions is met: the consent of the data subject, that is to say, the consent of the person himself; it is necessary to fulfil the legal obligation of the controller; it is necessary to protect the vital interests of the person himself or of another natural person; it is necessary in the public interest or is necessary in the event of a legitimate interest of a third party. Yesterday in this very hall, Jevgeni Ossinovski asked Jaanus Kariladi, in whose interests this provision was introduced, it is in the interests of the patient, his loved ones or the state. Jaanus Karilaid replied that it was in the interests of his loved ones. The Data Protection Regulation does not provide an opportunity to put the loved ones ahead of the individual. Yesterday we also heard that in reality there is no problem in the current crisis that people do not know where their loved ones are. In a country the size of Estonia, this problem hardly arises. However, with this bill, we will open the door for misuse of data that we will not be able to close later, and it is absolutely unnecessary. Therefore, we cannot support the Brezhnev package this time. Although we support the regularisation of the emergency helpline 1247, we do not support the restriction of fundamental rights of individuals. There must be no restriction on people's right to decide to whom and what data they wish to share about themselves. This is neither necessary nor proportionate in the current crisis nor in the visible future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U290	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U291	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already talked about this main concern at second reading, but for a second time, I will also bring it up at third reading. Indeed, there is no practical need for access to the health information system that is now being given to the emergency telephone service of the Emergency Response Centre by this law. This is what we know from the fact that no such queries have been made. It is also practically impossible to make use of this possibility, as the data on the actual stay of the health information system in the hospital are not reached so quickly. I guess this provision was put in the draft with good intentions, and it was thought that someone could also think that if there was a major crisis, how would the close ones know where the hospital person is? So it is self-evident how this provision entered the draft. However, why the representatives of the coalition have been reluctant and voted down these amendments yesterday, leaving this pointless, at first sight, but a very important change in substance in it is incomprehensible to me. If we are talking about allowing the health information system to inherit a specific relatively limited set of data, the violation of a person's rights may not be excessive. You could say that. But I think what matters is, in fact, what hits the credibility of the health information system as a whole. And this solution is even worse than Brezhnev's package because Brezhnev's package brought along books that you didn't want to read, but they didn't have to read. By giving access to the health information system, however, we undermine the trust that Estonian people have had in the health information system. Yesterday, I listed a variety of essentially very well-founded attempts to achieve that different authorities would be allowed to use the health information system to make their procedures more effective. I will give you another example. Doctors at the Defence Resources Board wanted to see if a boy who says he's been sick for 20 years was actually sick or not when new conscripts were recruited. They wanted to check whether or not these data were reflected in the health information system. There was an overwhelming public interest in the game: defence. But we still don't allow automatic access. I checked my digital history yesterday, that's exactly how it is: default access to the Defence Forces closed, but you can open it. A person must agree. And now we're giving this right to the alarm center volunteers and non-volunteers, just crisis workers. They'll have access to the health information system's data. Although limited, however, and in such a way that it is not possible for a person to shut down his or her data. It cannot be said that this is a request for consent. For example, in the case of treating doctors, we can press the Close button for specific visits for each particular epic crisis and it will not be seen. But you can't shut it down in front of the D.A.'s volunteers. There is no practical need for this provision, it does not give basically anything, but the impact it gives on the reliability of the health information system is very great. And it's going to manifest in two ways. First of all, of course, if the next time you want access to the health information system to perform the function of an essentially important country, this authority says that listen, emergency phone volunteers have pointless access, but we have a real thing to do here! On what grounds don't you give us? This inflation of perceptions of access to the health information system is emerging. And another effect is that when either negligence or misunderstanding is extended to access data from the health information system, people start to close down their data or do not transfer data from doctors. We have enough work to do, for example, for psychiatrists to carry in the data, because very many psychiatrists do not trust the health information system and the information about psychiatric diseases is known to be particularly sensitive. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U292	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U293	Thank you. We've been going through the social system for a long time, I mean, to convince psychiatrists to wear their stories to a digital lock. And there has always been a question of trust. And the state has been saying for decades that this system can be trusted that we will not abuse it, that we will not give access to the health information system to anyone but the doctors, because it is a sacred promise. Then comes the first so-called critical moment, where it is not possible to hold a wide-ranging and thorough discussion of one or the other of the changes over the clap, that is done. And in this case, even without any practical need. In fact, the effect of this decision will be much greater than it seems at first sight. The specific need regarding the PSAP is very small and of little importance. But what concerns the substantive protection of the health information system from attempts to open people's sensitive personal data is quite certainly the opening of the door, and that is completely unnecessary. As a result, the Social Democrats are forced to vote against this draft and, unfortunately, we call on others to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U294	On behalf of the Group of the Kaido Höökelson Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U295	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support the draft law amending the Law on Salvation and the Weapons Act. This is for the simple reason that it makes Estonia a safer and better country. As a patron of the Salvation League, I would first and foremost like to highlight the points of the draft law that value volunteering as a savior. Quite often, it is the voluntary saviors who depend on saving a human life. I am pleased that under the draft, the social guarantees for rescue volunteers also extend to preventative volunteers. In particular, contributing to prevention is the most effective way to prevent fire and drowning deaths. The bill also reduces red tape. The five-year period of validity of a voluntary rescue medical certificate will disappear. This can be determined in the future by a family doctor based on individual health indicators. This amendment significantly reduces the frequency of medical examinations. A medical certificate for a motor vehicle driver will be accepted as a medical certificate, but the amendments to the law will allow volunteers to demonstrate that there are no medical problems in the future with another medical certificate, such as an auxiliary police officer, a police officer or a medical certificate for the holder of a weapons permit. In an emergency, urgent decisions and measures must be taken, which may not be pleasant for everyone, but are also essential. Rapid and effective dissemination of relevant information will help resolve the situation. The draft provides that the Emergency Alerts Database is a database belonging to a national information system and that that national database has the right to request requests and receive information from another national database, namely the Health Information System, when providing crisis information services. There is no reason to fear that these personal data will be treated in a constitutional manner. Undoubtedly, the exercise of this right must be in line with the rules on the protection of personal data. Therefore, good friends, we will adopt the Act amending the Rescue Act and the Weapons Act and make Estonia a safer and better country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U296	Thank you very much. No further wish to participate in the negotiations has been expressed. The negotiations are over and we are going to the final vote. The lead committee has proposed that a final vote of 128 be carried out today. I am voting on the draft law amending the Rescue Act and the Weapons Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 52 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this draft, 10 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U297	We will go to the next item on the agenda: First reading of the draft Act of the Government of the Republic initiated by the Government of the Republic and the law amending other laws (Education and Youth Administration, Language Inspectorate, Language Administration). Please report to the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U298	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws setting up the Education and Youth Board in the area of government of the Ministry of Education and Research and is renamed the Language Inspectorate. It is proposed to relate to the direction taken by the Government of the Republic as regards the analysis carried out in the framework of the state reform and the proposals for consolidation of state agencies. The Ministry of Education and Youth will continue to provide the services of the current HITSA, Innove, Archimedes and Estonian Youth Work Centre. The Language Board will continue to carry out the tasks of the current Language Inspectorate and will be complemented by tasks related to the reputation, recognition of the Estonian language, coordination of adult language learning and language technology. The Institute of Estonian Language will continue as a research and development institution and its tasks and role will not change. The date of entry into force of the draft is proposed as 1 August 2020. Operations relating to the merger of institutions shall be carried out by the Ministry of Education and Research. Since much of the tasks of Archimedes, Innove and HITSA are assigned by the management contract and these tasks move to the Education and Youth Office, it is justified to end the existence of foundations. The activities of the NTK, or Estonian Youth Work Centre, will be reorganized. Changes in the name and duties of the Language Inspectorate do not require the reorganisation or termination of the institution's activities. I will give five reasons why the proposed changes are necessary. The services are provided at too many different levels, are fragmented and partially duplicated and are provided according to a wide range of principles, making their overall impact difficult to grasp. There has long been talk about the need to tackle formal and non-formal learning issues, more flexible learning pathways for our young people and more personalised education. As a result of the tasks entrusted to foundations and the management of the ESF programme, the gap between policy design and implementation has become blurred. A number of issues in the language field, such as adult education in the Estonian language, are scattered between different institutions and there is no specific leader and person responsible. Resources for support services and management functions could be used much more efficiently. During the last six months, major preparatory work has been carried out in the project steering group, various working groups and workshops. More than 180 people from our institutions have discussed the common part of services, objectives and metrics in their workshops. It was important to first reach a consensus between the authorities in order to then move forward with our partners in the discussions on services. However, this does not mean that our partners have been left out so far. This has been presented to a number of our partners in the fields of education and youth. There have been meetings with the Estonian Educational Workers' Association, the Estonian School Leaders' Association, the Estonian Youth Workers' Assembly, the Estonian Open Youth Centres Association, the Estonian Association for the Promotion of Vocational Training, the Association of Information Technology Enterprises, the Association of Estonian Youth Associations and the Association of Tartu County Municipalities. Further discussions on services with partners are planned for the May-June period. The services of the Language Board have also been discussed with the Estonian Language Council. We are not limited to the mechanical integration of the four institutions in the establishment of the Education and Youth Agency. Ambition is greater. The services of the Agency enable every Estonian person to establish a personal learning path, using formal and non-formal learning opportunities throughout the life cycle. We are not creating a bureaucratic and hierarchical system of command, but a modern service-based organisation that focuses on the users of services. This approach is also a good starting point for the subsequent assessment of changes. Monitoring the targeting of services and meeting the objectives will help us to assess the impact of the changes undertaken. Collaboration with partners has already been incorporated into this model of activities and the opportunities for involvement of the various organisations so far remain. In order to strengthen this, we have set up an innovation and cooperation platform in order to continue developing the success story of Estonian education together with partners in different sectors and activities. The partners of the Ministry of Education and Research, especially in the field of youth, have been concerned about the loss of the field as a whole in the large joint office. Today, I can say that, following discussions on the structure of the institution, we have maintained a comprehensive sectoral view and we will hold competence together on a sectoral basis, if that is reasonable and necessary. When setting up the Education and Youth Agency, as well as in the case of the Language Agency, a level playing field will be created for staff of existing institutions, both when they are appointed and when they are recruited. The Agency shall take over the employment contracts concluded by the institution. This means that current staff whose post and duties do not change as a result of the unification of institutions will continue to work in the post or the post provided for by the UT. In other cases, posts shall be filled in by open competition. The competition shall also fill the Director-General's seat. The Director General's search is carried out by the Centre of Excellence of the Supreme Leaders of the State Chancellery. We look forward to being Director-General with the experience of the senior manager, a person who sees the role of education and youth more widely and understands the links between the field as an influence on the development of society. One of the Director-General's challenges is to develop a single organisation on the basis of the services and culture of four institutions that have so far been separate and to significantly enhance synergies between education and youth. Both the Education and Youth Board and the Language Board will have regional representations and will continue to recruit employees in Estonia. According to the current job distribution, nearly 40% of the jobs in the Education and Youth Board are located outside Tallinn. There is also regional representation at the Language Inspectorate and it is definitely planned to maintain it in the Language Board. On the subject of the Language Board, I have answered the question more thoroughly in this Chamber some time ago. The Language Board strengthens the capacity to implement language policy and becomes a national competence centre for language policy implementation. I repeat that the establishment of the Language Board will not reduce the importance of supervision. In addition to supervision, attention will be paid to advice. It is important that the desired change in the behaviour of organisations and individuals is realised. Unfortunately, we will not achieve this by merely checking. The Language Board does not take away the tasks of the EKI, the EKI retains its tasks and role. The Ministry of Education and Research has discussed the tasks of the Language Board with both the EKI and the Language Inspectorate, as well as the Estonian Language Council. Additional tasks are tasks related to the reputation of the Estonian language, recognition, coordination of adult language learning and language technology. The details and agreements of the tasks achieved in the Estonian Language Council form the basis for the drafting of the institution's statutes and the statutes of the departments. Finally. We are definitely the education of the faith of the state and the people. Good work has been done in the fields of education, youth and language, and we are a model for many other countries. As a country, however, we must look ahead and also take into account the circumstances when there is less money and fewer people than today, and ensure the functioning and high quality for these times as well. Today's decisions will also help us to keep track of the progress made so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U299	Thank you very much, dear waitress. You have questions. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U300	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, my question is motivated by the statement in point 6 of the explanatory memorandum, and I quote: 'With regard to the planned timetable for the work of the working groups preparing for the establishment of a unified office and the re-name of the Language Inspectorate, some details (exact number of posts to be transferred, proposed new structure, etc.) will become clear in March 2020 and therefore cannot be opened more precisely in the explanatory memorandum at this time. " Today we have April 15th. Is there any clarification in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U301	Thank you. We've already talked about this in the Committee on Culture, so I'll go over it in the big hall. Kristi Mikiver, who has led this steering committee working group, explained that there have been a great many additional meetings in the last two months. During these additional meetings, a picture of both occupations, but mostly of the Education and Youth Board, has been drawn from the outside inwards. As I said in my speech, so far the work was more about bringing the four jobs together. They got together and tried to find out between themselves the story of the Education and Youth Office Here is also the nuance that some of the purely operational tasks related to the use of European Union money will be transferred to the National Support Services Centre. That, too, will change the picture. The Committee on Culture asked the most about when this external view would be made public. This has also been asked a great deal, for example, by IT companies. I'm sure they'd like all the positives that exist in HITSA to be preserved. There have been additional meetings and I received further confirmation this morning. A meeting of the Language Council was held in which very detailed proposals were made on the work of the Language Board. The division of the structure of the Education and Youth Agency has not yet come up with such precise proposals that I would dare to introduce them. There have been, let us say, such general perceptions, especially in the youth field, which they certainly would like to do. What will be the exact structure, it is not so clear that they would be willing to explain it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U302	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U303	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This draft is, after discussing all these crisis budgets, as if from a whole other world. It is understood that changes to the current government action programme and state reform action plan for 2019/2023 are intended to be legalised. As it also captures the Language Board and all other institutions involved in Estonian language, please explain in a simple way how this change will better ensure the sustainability of Estonian language, Estonian culture and education in Estonian. Listening to all these bureaucratic restructuring processes, it seems that this is not enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U304	Thank you so much for such a lovely question. I will try to define the question and answer it as accurately as possible. Of course, it is tempting to start talking about the importance of the Estonian language, but perhaps I will do so in the context of discussing a matter of national importance. In fact, the greatest concern has been both in the drafting of this draft and in the discussions of the Committee on Culture. It has been argued that the reason why we rename the Language Inspectorate is that the name is too low in ambition. This reason is purely legal. If we take one job and call it a circle, the jobs will be preserved, everyone's confidence will be preserved, and all the other good things that exist will be preserved. The Agency's ambition is added, which is particularly relevant to advice. The Language Inspectorate himself, I assure you, has for at least five or six years also made a request to the Riigikogu that they need such an additional function or additional competence. How does this change the whole language policy? I think the first indicator is the confidence that the Institute of Estonian Language will be preserved. This has been fundamental to this debate. Since this debate has taken a little longer, such a decision is certainly a good one. The concerns of language representatives about the Estonian Language Institute have lasted for a very long time. When we think back, at least five years have been spent talking about consolidation. This is the first positive thing. Another positive thing is understanding that control is not the sole task of the Language Board. Feedback from social partners is needed. And it has also been confirmed that there is a need for wider language counselling. Greater attention will be paid to the activities of such an implementing agency. The Language Inspectorate is certainly visible now, but perhaps not so wide. I believe that our own respect for this institution will also be strengthened. The Language Board receives a dignified position and helps to understand all the activities concerning adult language learning that have been added during the procedure. The National Audit Office has also rightly paid attention to adult language learning, noting that there is too much duplication. Perhaps these are the most important aspects that will come up with this amendment. The Estonian language is important and we all support these many language application programmes. A good questioner knows them himself. There are a series of them and each has its own function, from language technology, which is extremely important and which, in my opinion, makes fantastic leaps in its development to the wider language infrastructure. As an implementing body, the Language Board will continue to coordinate issues that are not already in the hands of EKI or our partners, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U305	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U306	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you for your thorough review. I am not a member of the Committee on Culture, I am not a member of it. That is why I have one such question. You have identified four establishments that we are talking about. Can you tell me how many employees these institutions currently have and what will be the number of employees when this reorganisation has taken place? That's one question. The second question, however, concerns adult language learning. There are currently three other people in this Chamber, who are members of the Estonian Language Problem Committee, and we are experiencing serious difficulties there under the leadership of Mikhail Stalnukhin, concerning the language learning of young people, or pupils. Apparently, this question goes out of the subject of this bill, but maybe you'll be more specific about what's ahead. It's nice to have a leader or pusher of adult language learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U307	First of all, about the numbers, I have an answer. It's prepared for me. It has to be said that it is very difficult to say now that precise figures on redundancy, on how many people do not continue their employment contracts. It is first necessary to establish the structures of these agencies, taking into account their functions. However, it can already be said that 60 staff members are moving there in relation to the tasks of the Structural Funds and the Implementing Unit. The total number of employees in the four institutions is 547. These are the numbers I have in front of me. I don't have any more specific information than what the chancellor and the project manager have proposed. At the moment, this figure is uncertain. However, no percentage has been set either by the National Reform Steering Group or by ourselves for example by 10% or 20%. But, of course, we must honestly admit that there is duplication. There's a double, and 547 is an ambitious number. We also take into account what has remained very clear in this Chamber in recent weeks: if the private sector has to tighten its belt, then the public sector must too. So, in addition to the Ministry, we will definitely be analysing our agencies. Today I don't dare say exact numbers, I certainly don't have that knowledge. But it is very clear that we are not making the governance structure big. Rather, it is meant that we apply a normal system. Certainly, the Director-General will be employed and the sub-Directors will also come and departments will be set up. Rather, the goal is to create as flat an organisation as possible. That's how much I know.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U308	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U309	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Effectiveness is, yes, now becoming an important keyword. My question concerns the unification of the Youth and Education Office. I have heard that these youth institutions have not worked very effectively, perhaps only in Tallinn. How do you comment on the situation and get better?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U310	Whoa... First of all, the institution that is now being merged is the Estonian Youth Work Centre. The Estonian Youth Work Centre was founded years ago and celebrated a round anniversary some time ago. The agency's main ambition was at the beginning to coordinate activities in the field of youth. On the whole, I think that very excellent work has been done to create this particular network. After all, youth centres are generally very small, especially before the administrative reform. In order for individual fine youth workers to hear from each other in the first place, various cooperation programmes are being carried out. The Centre also played a very important role, in my view, when there was an administrative reform. The youth work centre was one of those who, long before the administrative reform took place, say so, urged that youth activities be discussed at the top of the municipalities, and a little contributed financially to the activities of young people. When the topics in the youth field were discussed, other local government specialists were also involved and such formal education was sometimes analysed more widely. They tried proactively to look to the future that if there were ever to be a large government, what would that really mean? How effective the youth field works depends on local authorities. According to our data, local authorities invest around 400 million euros per year in the youth sector. So municipalities take youth work very seriously. How effective they are depends on the region. In sparsely populated areas, young people's activities have been brought as close as possible to their home so that accessibility is not dependent on transport. We have also tried to give separate money for this, but it is understandable that activities in the youth field also depend heavily on European money. If the question is whether the Estonian Youth Work Centre has worked effectively, it can be said that they have been quite close to the maximum in using European Union money. Of course, there have been critical moments during the mid-term stages of some projects, some projects were not very well predicted. At the same time, a good example is the supporter action implemented under the last ESF, which supports the introduction of NEETs, or excluded young people, into the joint life. Young people started it on their own. The property measure also supports such general activities. Such fine initiatives have, in my opinion, been very well carried out by the NTK. The development of NTK leaders is also all of the activities of the chess and camps, which certainly is also very important. I am a very hot supporter of youth policy and that is why the Government of the Republic has asked the Riigikogu to discuss the development plan for youth as a separate issue. I believe that today's debate will also provide additional support to this. Young people themselves are very active and believe in their field. But we don't have any special metrics to determine efficiency. Indicators include involvement, including the involvement of young people who have so far been excluded in the joint life. If there is a problem in a region with a complex economic social background, a highly felt multinationality, poor accessibility, if there are many young people with disabilities, young people who do not speak Estonian, then we do not have any additional indicators for this. In general, we take into account the employment rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U311	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U312	Thank you. For all consolidations and structural changes related to the state reform, one issue has been that not all of this makes Estonia too Tallinn-centred or a little Tartu-centred. Would you say how this process now guarantees a regional dimension in politics? Youth work centres alone are not enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U313	Thank you. There are currently regional Rajaidja representations operating through Innove. We have made a firm decision that we will keep the regional representations. In some parts they are located in state buildings, some places separate from the one that has depended on the rental negotiations. But in the regions outside the big cities, 40% of them are. However, if you stress the activity outside Tallinn and Tartu, this percentage is actually slightly lower, because in Tartu we have a very significant agency in addition to the Ministry. I don't want to be wrong about numbers, but I think about a third will be outside Tallinn and Tartu. That's the proportion we have right now. And the reason is clear: we want representation, above all, in the regions, so that these services are accessible. It must also be possible to provide certain services on a regional or regional basis. It is much easier to build this network, especially given the application of services and the application procedure. For example, when it comes to the use of European Union money, youth mobility programmes or other activities, it is certainly reasonable to make decisions on the ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U314	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U315	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I am also a supporter of mobile youth work, but more and more I feel that it should be literally mobile sex work because young people are increasingly on mobile phones. You can go there, but you don't call them. I'm asking if the IT capability and the agility of the youth office are such that we can get all the young people on the phone. Will there be a contribution to this, including those under the age of 25 who actually know where the young people are? The society of the NTK is getting old without wanting to. I guess we're all getting old when Getter Jaan says so. The other part of my question, however, is this: do you also consider it important to promote patriotic education in the youth profession?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U316	Thank you. First of all, we certainly do not discriminate either the same way or the other when organising competitions. We're not allowed to do that by law, either. But, of course, we're gonna get some active young people, that's for sure. Young people may age quickly, as we all do, but when I think about the major events of the NTK, which they do very actively and attractively, I think we should not judge the word 'young'. But let's just say that these people are still remarkably young. Whether they're under 26, I owe you that answer. I should go over this separately. Now, NTK and, say, mobile or digital youth work. Thanks, that's a great question, just like everyone else. Digital youth work, or the Internet, was a priority in the youth field during our European Union Presidency. We conducted informal conferences, as well as Council meetings, where we presented the options in this area. Estonia has, of course, done so on a project basis, just as it organises a very large part of the other use of European money. There are some very good examples of how young people who are not very involved have been found through various mobile activities. They have been involved through the digital world, perhaps also through directors, and so they have been brought to some sort of action. There is a statistically significant number of such examples in Estonia, otherwise these young people would probably not have been found. In general, however, youth workers, as the good questioner himself knows, do not really agree that they are confined to mobile communication. In any case, they also want these young people physically and have led to certain services. Examples include psychological and career counselling, as well as solving mental health problems. I am not talking, of course, about the current situation; at the moment, it has all been moved to an individual and digital level. So this is a very long stage, for example, in the case of Prop-Up services. This action will involve young people who are excluded from work and learning. Such digital and not personal communication is needed before this young person is ready to actually use these services. Indeed, this measure has involved a very significant number of young people. We are more of an example in this area, and we have also called on the European Union and the European Commission to place special emphasis on this issue. And it has to be said that this initiative, as the European Union plays quite a significant part in the youth field, has been approved. We are a guide and we are doing this work in cooperation with Finland, which is the common direction of Estonian-Finnish youth work. Now, patriotic upbringing. In the field of education, there has been a ',' and I believe that the new agency will not change this situation in policy-making by a very important association of youth councils. Patriotic education organisations are also represented in the Youth Council, which are largely financed by the Ministry of Defence. They are always involved in shaping our policies and have always expressed their opinion very strongly. We also have, as you know, a patriotic education programme jointly put together in two ministries. So this issue is certainly visible in the youth field and will not be left out in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U317	Tarmo Kruusimäe, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U318	Thank you! Good waitress! In the Committee on European Union Affairs, too, this question was once put, but I hope that perhaps this youth agency will be able to formulate concepts more clearly. When it comes to the age of 7 to 18, we use the word 'child', but when it comes to the age of 7 to 26, they are 'young'. According to some laws, we treat a 17.5 - year - old person as a child, for example, when it comes to a mother who has such an old descendant. But according to the Local Government Council Election Act, such an old young person is already completely neck-bearing and can take decisions independently. I think that kind of treatment when you say to a 17,5-year-old young person that you are a child, a little humiliating, discriminatory. I hope the Youth Service finds a good solution here. By the way, it also seems absurd to me that a 17.5%-year-old youth cannot buy alcohol-free beer, because merchants have thought he had to be 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U319	Now there were a lot of these questions, just like we did at ELAK at the time. First of all, in the educational documents, including the documents in the field of youth work, we really keep 'children' and 'young people' apart. I also often have to correct myself when I say, for example, that children graduate from high school. Then I always apologize and say 'young people'. Yeah, well, I gotta watch my language all the time. Of course, if I have a 16-year-old son who's much taller than me, he's still a "child" to me, but generally I have to say 'young' about them. The point is, of course, not in the term. Most laws speak of minors and non - minors at all. Are we ready to go back to our last discussion on the grounds that 16-year-olds have gained certain rights to limit their minority in 16 years? I said back then, it would have a lot of effects. These are family benefits, these are issues of child protection and certain violence in criminal law. The penalties are much stricter when it comes to minors. I'm certainly not ready to say that a 16-year-old should count as an adult. In view of certain naivety and everything else, I am sorry that I say so, for example, in the case of sexual crimes, I am cautious, perhaps rather opposed. As far as the issue of beer is concerned, I think it is worth a separate debate. There are countries where the purchase of alcohol is permitted at the age of 21, where this age limit is lower. Personally, I like to limit all kinds of things as long as possible. There are those who think it could be available as much as possible. I believe that this should be the subject of a broader debate. Well, that's a very fundamental, even world-view question. After all, we once had a very extensive social debate on family and marriage issues. There have been social models where 16 are sufficient age, but it has also been discussed that there must also be preconditions for being a parent. This argument continues. I know that there has also been a dispute, and I think it was also a question at ELAK, whether a parent has the right to make decisions relating to school or education before the child is 18 years old. Such questions also arise when family relationships are difficult or need to see a psychiatrist or receive any other advice. I wouldn't generalise such different situations, though. I would allow every decision to be made separately, because any such relief or granting young people more rights at a very early stage may ultimately mean that they do not get more rights, but rather suffer from them. But this, I believe, comes out of the subject of the current discussion. There will probably be times where more than two people can be in the room at once. Then we can talk about this informally.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U320	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I would like to ask Marko Šorini, member of the Committee on Culture, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U321	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Good minister! The merger of institutions and foundations operating in the area of government of the Ministry of Education and Research was discussed three times in the Committee on Culture: on 16 December last year and on 27 January and 6 April this year. Mailis Reps, Secretary-General Mart Laidmets and project manager Kristi Mikiver presented the subject to the Commission. Tõnu Tender, Director of the Institute of the Estonian Language, Ilmar Tomusk, Director of the Language Inspectorate, Birute Klaas-Lang, Chairman of the Language Council, Mart Laidmets, Chancellor and Deputy Chancellor Kristi Vinter-Nemvalts participated in the discussion in January. It is explained that the merger of institutions is based on the analysis of the Applied Research Centre, which is also envisaged in the Action Plan of the Government of the Republic. The aim has been to avoid artificial aggregation, and the focus is on how agencies and foundations can be put to work systematically and synergistically. Cost savings are also expected, especially as EU funds are decreasing. The debate looked at the challenges that the new agency will face. The Chancellor pointed out that at present methodological support is fragmented between several institutions and educational assets are produced not only by private companies but also by five foundations and there is no quality control. The January meeting had been convened as a result of the news in the ERR, which was based on government working documents and was not yet intended to be made public, as it contained options and initial ideas. Therefore, this caused confusion for the parties concerned. But in the course of the debate, the goals and intentions of the government became clearer. It turned out that in the future the Institute of Estonian Language will continue to carry out its tasks and the Language Board will be established. The Director-General of the Language Inspectorate confirmed that they have the necessary competence to take on more tasks in the language field, such as shaping the language policy of Estonia and the European Union and further training of the Estonian language, which the inspection could not deal with. Both institutions, both the Institute of the Estonian Language and the Language Inspectorate, confirmed that there are no contradictions between themselves and there are no disputed areas. One side deals with monitoring, another with content, such as dictionaries, speech synthesis, etc. The representatives of the Ministry confirmed that they did not see that there was somewhere in the language field a possibility to sum up this expression was in the protocol. The transitional period is the same as for the Education and Youth Agency, which is 1 August this year. This draft was last discussed by the Committee on Culture on 6 April, with the participation of the Minister, Chancellor and Project Manager Kristi Mikiver. The invited provided an overview of the merger, also highlighting the inclusion aspect. Eight workshops have taken place with the participation of nearly 180 people. Members of the Commission requested a written statement of inclusion, which was subsequently sent. The question of inclusion attracted a number of questioners. In the round of questions, there was also talk of further progress on inclusion. It is not possible to take all the proposals concerning the structures into account, as confirmed by the speakers, but the proposals for the provision of services are taken into account as much as possible. We also received confirmation from the Committee on Culture that, despite the emergency situation, the preparations were scheduled and that the agencies could start their work just before the school year began. At the same time, proposals have been made to start on 1 January 2021. However, the Ministry does not see this need and they think it would be better to start at the beginning of the school year, so that schools are clearly taken into account. According to the Minister, the aim is to provide confidence in the position as early as possible in order to be able to meet the new school year with clear knowledge of the tasks to be carried out. In the round of questions, there was an interest as to whether the Language Board would duplicate the Institute of Estonian Language. According to the project manager, there will be no duplication. New services will come and remain the competence of the Language Board. A separate issue was the fact that the European Commission has not confirmed the suitability of the Erasmus+ and the European Solidarity Corps programmes and how to deal with them in the new Education and Youth Agency. The project manager provided an overview of the activities related to the preparation of the basic regulation, risk analysis and roadmap, which are under preparation. In order to ensure that Erasmus+ is not put at risk, Erasmus+ will join as planned from 1 January. The main objective of the process is, according to the Minister, also to cut red tape. At the end of the meeting, procedural decisions were taken, which is why I am reporting it to you today. The decision to propose the termination of the first reading was also taken. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U322	Thank you very much, fellow waitress. There are no questions for you. Let's go to the negotiations. The floor has been requested by Priit Sibul on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U323	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I absolutely agree with Mr Urve Tiidus that this draft has been very nice to deal with after the drafts, as if from a different level. Surely he is, that this is a pre-crisis bill and will lead our lives, I hope, for a very long time after the crisis. I think it is very reasonable and supportive that we are trying to consolidate competence, consolidate and use resources as reasonably as possible in Estonia. Personally, I have only had positive contacts with the four institutions involved. I mean Innove, Archimede, HITSA and NTK, where the youth centers were open. They have certainly been active in different places and have played a different role, but my experience is positive. Nevertheless, it makes sense to restructure the public sector. It's the same with the Language Inspectorate. Surely this is not just a passionate step, as this bill might seem to have the impression that only renaming is taking place. Surely, the goal is to bring together competence in the same way. The Language Board will become a much more important and functional body than an inspection can be. Estonian statehood is based on language and culture. The use of the national language in all areas of life is the basis for the survival of our country and nation. For the last 30 years, Isamaa has consistently maintained the principle that Estonian must be used everywhere in Estonia. The preservation of Estonian language and culture begins with the small things that affect people's daily lives, including companies, civil society organisations, local governments and government institutions. In November 2019, the Council of the Fatherland came forward with the initiative to establish the Language Board. I am pleased to note that with today's draft we are one step closer to this goal. Over the years, we have contributed to learning the Estonian language of adults, improving the control of language requirements and the transition to education in Estonian in different municipalities. At the same time, it is clear that the number of challenges in our language space is increasing. Estonia has become an immigration country, which undoubtedly affects our language space, and we also need to overcome various problems in order to ensure higher education in Estonian and the success of the Estonian language as a digital language. The creation of a language agency is one step in preparing to meet these challenges. The functions of the Language Board are more precisely determined by government regulation and the Fatherland supports these functions to be as broad as possible, starting with policy making and language use and ending with legal advice and supervision functions. The aim of the Fatherland is to create new capacities and new quality that will help to protect and develop the Estonian language in all areas of life. The Language Board must become a national competence centre in matters relating to the implementation of language policy, with wide-ranging tasks. This helps to ensure the sustainability of the Estonian language and the central role of the Estonian language in our society. One of the main objectives of the establishment of the Language Board is to direct the choice of language in both official and public language, both legally, administratively and image-based. Good luck to us!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-15_U324	Thank you. No further desire to participate in the negotiations has been revealed. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 163. No other proposal, including a rejection proposal, has been submitted by anyone. First reading is over. The deadline for tabling amendments is 29 April at 5.15 p.m. Thank you very much. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 7 p.m.
