ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-30_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It's a pleasure to see you all here again. It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-30_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, For the start of the sitting, we have the opportunity to hear the oath of the Supreme Court member Juhan Sarve. Please, Juhan Sarv!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-30_U3	Dear Riigikogu! I pledge to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. I pledge to exercise justice according to my conscience in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-30_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, It is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-30_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to hand over the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law, initiated by the members of the Riigikogu Helle-Moonika Helme, Jaanus Karilaid, Urmas Espenberg, Urmas Reitelmann, Uno Kaskpeit, Kalle Grünthal, Kai Rimmel, Kert Kingo, Jaak Valge, Leo Kunnas, Paul Puustusmaa, Riho Breivel, Tiit Kala, Anti Poolams, Merry Aart, Siim Pohlak and Henn Põlluaas. The aim of the draft is to remove restrictions on the ownership of pharmacies and to give pharmacies and healthcare providers the right to purchase medicines directly from the manufacturer. This will ensure free competition on the pharmaceutical market, which will improve the availability of medicines and increase the choice of products. We would also like to prevent the closure of pharmacies in certain areas that have now been the subject of the issue, and to give hospital pharmacies the right to retail and, if possible, to ensure on their basis the availability of on-call pharmacy services in county centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-30_U6	Thank you very much. The Bureau shall deal with this in the manner prescribed by the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-30_U7	Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, at the request of 73 members of the Riigikogu, to hand over a draft statement from the Riigikogu on History Memory and Forgery of History. This draft has been the result, particularly in recent months, of the Russian Federation's activities in the counterfeiting of historical facts and, for us, perhaps the most important, of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact and its secret protocols for the first time in the last 30 years. I would like to remind you that in 1989 the Congress of People's Ambassadors in Moscow declared those secret protocols null and void, but now, at the highest level, Russia has again taken the right to justify something that was directly one of the main triggering forces in the release of World War II. I think it is very important to see in this statement not only a statement of support for our allies, whom Russia is now attacking on historical issues and making an accomplice to the release of World War II, but also a direct deterrent to the protection of our law and legal continuity. I think that the processing of this application here in the Riigikogu with such a high level of support has been signed by the initiators of all the political groups of the Riigikogu , should show convincingly what Estonia's position on this matter is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-30_U8	Thank you very much. We will also deal with this as provided for by the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-30_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, have a draft law amending the pharmaceutical law. As the previous speaker has wished to reopen this debate, my fellow Members Helmen Küti and Riina Sikkut and I will also give a small addition to this discussion. In fact, it has been created, and the waitress also repeated it with certain false choices. Since pharmaceutical companies have been unwilling to bring their activities into line with the legal requirements that have entered into force for five years, there is nothing to do, the state must get down on its knees, go back to the wholesalers and say in the way of the mice of Cat Leopold: 'Forgive us, Leopold, we will not do this again! " And if that does not happen, dozens of cities and villages will be left without a pharmacy on April 1. I mean, we actually saw in December that they're ready to do that. But it's a fake choice. In fact, it is possible for the state to impose itself, prove that it is not a hostage of a couple of entrepreneurs, and at the same time minimize the risk that someone could be left without medication on 1 April. For his part, the Minister for Social Affairs made such proposals, but the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee has expressed his unwillingness to deal with them. But our vision of how this could happen, we are now also giving it to the Riigikogu. In particular, the draft would allow the Agency, for a limited period of time, to extend the transitional period until 1 January 2021 in places where there is a risk that today no pharmacy will meet the new requirements that will be in force on 1 April. This would ensure that no village or city or village or village would be left without a pharmacy on 1 April. We hope that the Committee on Social Affairs will deal with these two drafts in parallel, because these are alternative visions on how to solve the same problem. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-30_U10	Thank you very much. This bill also goes into procedure in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted the drafts that have been issued. Now, please perform the presence check! 84 members of the Riigikogu are present, 17 are missing. This is a quorum enough to discuss all the issues, but we do not have any points on the agenda today, so the sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 10.09 a.m.
