ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U1	Good morning, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 4th working week. I am prepared to accept inquiries and draft laws on behalf of the board. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U2	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to report to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, on behalf of the 13 members of the Reform Party of the Riigikogu. What's the matter? The Government of the Republic recently approved a road-housing plan for the period from 2020 to 2030. If you read this road map document, we can see that, unfortunately, there are gaps in it. The information provided there is incomplete and controversial and important areas are without financial cover. By the way, in the next few years, funding for road maintenance will fall at a very rapid pace and especially disturbing is the decrease in new road development funds: from 100 million this year to just 25 million by 2023, i.e. almost nonexistent. Minister Aas said last week, in answering a question on this subject in Question Time, that this financial deficit would be covered by the European Union's money for the next long-term financial period and by the performance reserve. But the sums for the next period in the first years will decrease at a very slow pace. We are also asking about the empty promises relating to the PPP roads: how far the design of the first paragraphs is and whether the private sector is involved in the design of these sections. As all risks to PPP must remain with the private sector, the private sector should therefore also be involved in the design process. So nine questions on an important subject. We expect answers from the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U3	Thank you very much. An inquiry shall be submitted to the addressee and shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure. There are no further requests for referrals and drafts. So, presence check, please! 82 members of the Riigikogu are present, 19 is missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U4	Let's start with today's agenda. The first item is the debate on foreign policy as a key national issue initiated by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. According to § 153 of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, on the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Bureau appointed the following procedure for discussing this important national issue. First of all, the Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu will give a presentation for up to 20 minutes, with up to 90 minutes for subsequent questions and answers. Then Enn Eesmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will give a presentation for up to 15 minutes and questions and answers for up to 30 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may submit a total of up to two questions to the rapporteurs. Members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups may take part in the negotiations. At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak with the representatives of the political groups. And, of course, a member of the government is finally entitled to speak. The Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the discussion. If necessary, the Committee on Foreign Affairs will propose to extend the session until 2 p.m., but we will come to this once we have seen how the debate is going. I would like to ask Mr Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Foreign Affairs, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U5	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Riigikogu! Good diplomats! In foreign and security policy, the government of the Republic is based on the national interests of Estonia, national sovereignty and international law, following international agreements and the principles of the United Nations. We are implementing an independent and consistent foreign and security policy, in particular through our membership of the European Union and NATO. For Estonia, the unity and cooperation between the European Union and NATO are important; we will see the European Union as a union of states in the future, not a union of states. On February 2, we celebrated the 100th anniversary of Tartu Peace. The peace of Tartu was a great victory in our diplomacy, which ended the war of freedom and fixed Estonia into the family of sovereign states. We've been on a difficult journey for 100 years. Today we are stronger as a state and a nation than ever before, acting in accordance with the principles of the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia and the Tartu Peace Treaty. We have built our country with dedication and our diplomacy has represented us with dignity. Our foreign policy success is reflected in Estonia's membership of the UN Security Council at the heart of global diplomacy. The election of Estonia as a member of the Security Council is a clear sign of the maturity and credibility of our diplomacy. It is also a responsibility and opportunity for Estonia to strengthen security throughout the world and an opportunity to stand up for compliance with international law and rule-based arrangements. The century of our statehood has shown the importance of international law, especially for small countries. Our success story after the restoration of independence confirms that international cooperation and allied relations are a guarantee of freedom and development. The aim of this government is to further enhance Estonia's reputation in the world, to strengthen today's alliances and to participate in new important international initiatives, following our clear national interests. From the beginning of this year, we are participating in the work of the UN Security Council. Being part of this circle of decision-makers strengthens Estonia's security. In the Security Council, we stand for common rules and agreements to ensure global peace and security in international relations. We consider it important to oppose aggression, to protect human rights in the event of crises and to achieve sustainable development goals. In the Security Council, we introduce Estonia as a champion of international law and human rights standards and a country that supports multilateral diplomacy. We have doubled our team of diplomats in New York and for the first time sent a diplomat to the African Union permanently in Addis Ababa. Security is and remains a priority for Estonian foreign policy: global security, regional security and, above all, national security of the Republic of Estonia. In addition to its independent defence capabilities, good allied relations and collective defence remain the foundation of Estonian security. Of course, a united and determined NATO is needed for this. Transatlantic unity and the military presence of the United States in Europe have successfully contributed to peace and stability in our continent for the past 70 years. In recent years, Europe and the US have disagreements on some issues, but Europe and the US are the closest allies on security issues. For Estonia, the continued strengthening of NATO's deterrence and defence stance is and will remain a priority. The collective decisions of recent years have strengthened this attitude, and a good example of this is the increased presence of NATO units in Estonia and other countries in the region. We appreciate the military presence of the allies in the Baltic Sea region. It is also important to continue the NATO air security mission in Ämari. It is important that the remaining decisions to fill the gaps in NATO's deterrence and defence, in particular at sea and in the air, are also implemented. NATO is founded on the values of democracy, freedom and the rule of law. We believe that NATO's door must remain open to all countries wishing to comply with the principles of the Washington Treaty. It is very positive that the accession of Northern Macedonia to NATO is coming to an end. Increasing security is also a central issue for cooperation between NATO and the European Union. It is important to focus the debate on European security where it would add value to existing security and would not call into question the current security architecture. Collective protection is based on Article 5 of NATO and therefore discussions on the framing of Article 42.7 of the Treaty on European Union must be held in a balanced and hasty manner. The participation of third countries in permanent structured cooperation in PESCO is justified because the involvement of the European Union's strategic partners in defence cooperation serves the interests of strengthening security. Undoubtedly, raising the beggars of the allies to face hybrid threats is an important challenge. Estonia's expertise on cyber and digital topics makes it possible to further enhance Estonia's experience and to expand cooperation with strategic allies such as Germany and France. It is still important to deepen and diversify our bilateral cooperation with the United States. The United States is our most important partner in security policy. Therefore, strengthening transatlantic relations and intensifying bilateral cooperation with the United States is an important goal for Estonia, as well as for our activities in international organisations. We are convinced that strong and effective transatlantic cooperation and a close alliance between Europe and the democracies of North America are essential both for the security and well-being of us and the Western world as a whole, as well as for ensuring wider international stability. In view of this vision, last August, the Cabinet approved the main objectives of communication with the United States and activities to achieve the objectives set. The main strategic objective of Estonia is to ensure the immediate involvement and active participation of the United States in all aspects of ensuring Estonia's security. Last October, we agreed a joint statement with the United States, which provides for more intensive cooperation in a number of important areas. One expression of this is the joint statement on the security of 5G networks approved by the Estonian Prime Minister and the Vice-President of the United States, but also our decision to join the freedom of religion alliance established by the United States last week, which contributes to the promotion of freedom of religion and belief in the world. The United States has become Estonia's fourth largest export partner, continued cooperation in the field of development aid to help third countries and increased cooperation on energy issues. Good Riigikogu! Russia's aggressive foreign policy has not changed, so the current policy of the European Union and NATO must continue in its relations with Russia. On the eve of the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II, Russia is vigorously presenting a historical narrative that ignores historical facts and tries to change the generally accepted approach to history. Former so-called "Minister of Justice' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. The war has claimed thousands of lives in eastern Ukraine, where the victims are mainly civilians. The number of casualties is increasing. The ceasefire agreed at the last Normandy Quartet summit in Paris has not survived. Ukraine needs the support of its allies. Estonia supports initiatives aimed at restoring the territorial integrity of Ukraine and continuing non-recognition of the annexation of Crimea. We support Georgia's sovereignty and territorial sovereignty, namely Abkhazia and South Ossetia, are integral parts of Georgia. In a situation where Russia has not completed its aggression against its neighbours, it is unthinkable to turn over a new leaf in relations between the West and Russia. The Eastern Partnership continues to be important to Estonia. We support greater political and economic convergence of the Eastern partners towards the European Union, including giving them the European Union's perspective. In view of the Eastern Partnership Summit in June, both the commitment of partner countries to reforms and the continued support of the European Union are essential. Today, the migration crisis does not seem as acute as it was a year ago, the figures for illegal immigration in the European Union are decreasing. However, migratory pressures remain in the European direction. The root causes of migration, particularly in the Middle East and the African continent, have not disappeared. Means must be found to address the root causes of migration more effectively and therefore we are participating in military and civilian missions to the south. It is important for Estonia that Europe is able to control its external borders. The conservative migration policy of the Estonian government continues. It is important to maintain maximum sovereignty on migration issues. There has been a significant development in the Middle East peace process with the presentation of a new United States peace plan, which has responded widely. We welcome the leading role of the US, because without the US initiative there will be no progress in the peace process. It is important to resume the dialogue between the parties to the conflict, as only negotiations can lead to fair and lasting peace. In order to succeed, a united American and European view is needed on this issue. Our goal is an influential and strong Estonia in the active European Union. Estonia supports the European Union's common foreign and security policy, which is strategically forward-looking and geopolitically capable. Estonia's near future goals in the European Union were set by the government in November last year. Looking at the European Union budget, we want an ambitious European budget that supports cohesion, stands for equal competitive conditions for farmers and helps implement major infrastructure projects that are important to us, such as the synchronisation of the Baltic electricity networks with Central Europe and the Rail Baltic rail connection. We must clearly state our interests in the European Union and defend them, as well as seek co-ordinate supporters in promoting the interests of Europe as a whole. The conference on the future will soon begin, where national parliaments have an important role to play. I invite the Riigikogu to participate actively in this work and to stand up for Estonia's interests. The view of the Estonian Government is that in the perspective of the future, the European Union must be guided by the fundamental agreements in force in order to resolve the problems facing us. 2020 has brought about a change in Europe: Brexit has come true; the European Union will continue with 27 members. As regards the transitional period, there are no substantive changes in relations until the end of the year. It is important to stress here that Estonia's relations with London have always relied on a wider surface than its membership of the European Union. As UK leaders have said, the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union, but not Europe, and we have a common interest in continuing cooperation on many topical issues such as defence, scientific, digital and cyber cooperation and strategic communication. In addition to excellent bilateral relations, the United Kingdom remains an important ally in NATO. We are grateful that the United Kingdom is the leading state of NATO's increased presence in Estonia. While the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union, its enlargement policy continues. Estonia's view is that the European Union must continue its open door policy. We therefore support the opening of negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania on the basis of the criteria set out in advance. The Western Balkans Summit in May must contribute to the expansion of our common value area, as well as to the promotion of practical cooperation and association with this region. One of the priorities for the starting period in the European Union is climate policy. The Estonian Government supports the climate goals on the basis that countries retain sovereignty in tax matters and changes are carried out in such a way that regional competitiveness is maintained. We must also bear in mind that achieving the 2050 climate targets does not prevent us from guaranteeing energy security. I appointed the Special Envoy for Climate and Energy in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Kaja Taela. We must be able to defend and promote our values and principles against the background of long-term developments in world policy. I am thinking here of Estonia's relations with the European Union's growing China. In our relations with China, we see opportunities for mutually beneficial cooperation in many areas. At the same time, coherence and the development of common policies between the European Union and, more broadly, allies are necessary in order not to fragment the interests of the European Union as a whole in the face of global change. We are striving for a united position of the European Union in all formats dealing with foreign and security policy and foreign economic policy. Good listeners! This year, in regional cooperation, we will hold the chairmanship of the Baltic Council of Ministers and the Northern Baltic cooperation format. Estonia's priority is to increase regional security in these formats, which is why we jointly coordinate our positions on foreign and security policy issues that are important to us. Key words here are support for the Eastern partners and the promotion of transatlantic relations. We also see the need to improve the compatibility of the defence capabilities of the countries in the region and to increase cyber cooperation. In order to expand the potential of the region's economy, we need more connections in transport, energy and digital areas. The opening of the Balticconnector gas pipeline at the beginning of January is a clear example, with which the common gas market in Finland-Estonia-Latvia started to function. The Government has expressed its wish to have observer status in the Arctic Council in 2021. Estonia's wider interests relate to the growing geopolitical importance of the Arctic. Environmental and sustainable development issues are at the heart of the Arctic Council's work. Observer status brings added value in deepening allied and partnership relations through regional cooperation. This year Estonia has taken the initiative of three marine initiatives involving 12 countries between the West, Black and Adriatic Seas. The aim of the initiative is to develop transport, energy and digital connections for the North-South axis and to promote cross-border cooperation. The three sea summit in Tallinn in June of this year is one of the main events of 2020 in the foreign policy dimension. In the framework of the summit, we will organise a business forum aimed at increasing interest in investing in the region's economy and paving the way for the contribution of international investors to three marine funds. This fund has been set up to fund infrastructure projects for the three-sea initiative, and one of the objectives of the Tallinn Summit is the successful start-up of the fund and the integration of more countries and investors into the fund. Estonia has a basic readiness to join this fund and allocate 20 million euros to start the fund. Estonia will continue to make an active contribution to development cooperation and humanitarian aid in order to alleviate human suffering, assist those in conflict situations and contribute to the continuation of reforms in the Eastern Partnership countries. Estonia's development cooperation will continue to focus on priority partner countries such as Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova, Belarus and Afghanistan. So we have supported small entrepreneurship in Ukraine, Moldovan health care and Georgian school education. In order to make development cooperation more effective and clearer, it is planned to establish an agency for development cooperation and to develop a strategy for its action. Maintaining the interests of entrepreneurs and boosting the Estonian economy through increased investment is undoubtedly one of the main foreign policy priorities in my view. We plan to strengthen the external economy already this year and in the coming years. To this end, EUR 3.1 million of additional funds have been planned from the state budget to promote business diplomacy this year. This year, we are planning to open an embassy in Singapore and South Korea, particularly in order to expand the interests of the external economy. Additional economic diplomats are scheduled to be sent to Tokyo, Toronto, Geneva, Warsaw, Riga, Washington and Abu Dhabi this year as a priority. In order to represent the interests of companies in the IT sector, we also appoint an economic diploma that develops activities in Africa and resides in Tallinn. All these activities show that the promotion of entrepreneurship through support for export and investment and the development of tourism are among the main objectives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We consider the development of cyber diplomacy important. That's why we created a separate cyber diplomacy department. It is time to introduce the success of our education internationally. In cooperation with the Ministry of Education, we will create a special envoy for education. Good people's representation! I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu and other committees for the comprehensive procedure and substantive discussions of the Estonian foreign policy development plan 2030. This comprehensive foreign policy agenda has been drawn up for the first time. The development plan will strengthen our foreign policy in the long term. On this basis, we will strengthen three main lines of action: firstly, security, secondly, the stability and sustainable development of international relations, and thirdly, the foreign economy and the Estonian community abroad. For a more precise presentation and discussion of the development plan, I will be before you in March. In addition, we have updated and prepared a number of more precise action plans last year in order to clearly formulate and agree on the government's foreign policy steps. I see important foreign policy initiatives on a broad scale for the government. A broad foreign policy is the key word of this government. It is therefore important that government bodies as a whole are involved in the implementation of foreign policy objectives. I am thinking of a number of action plans, such as the action plan for new double taxation treaties, an extension plan for the network of economic diplomats, a plan for the provision of digital consular services and policies directed at different countries and regions. In our external policy development plan and planning our future activities, we have paid particular attention to the external Estonian community. Estonians abroad and Estonian friends have shown great interest and willingness to support Estonian exporting companies, but also to contribute more broadly to strengthening Estonia's positive reputation. We are grateful to them for their readiness. The most important asset of foreign policy is people who work every day to contribute to the security of Estonia, to support Estonian companies in export markets and to represent and protect the interests of citizens outside the country. I am pleased that the Riigikogu supported the government's proposal to increase the operating costs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by one fifth in the budget this year. This was a historic increase in operating costs. Since the beginning of the year, all employees in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have raised their salary by at least 100 euros. Following the entry into force of the Act on the External Action Service before the Riigikogu, we also plan to increase the income of workers on foreign missions. Estonian diplomats do a good job. When we implement foreign policy, we keep in mind that the reputation of the Estonian state will be enhanced and that our influence will increase. The task of foreign policy is to ensure the comprehensive protection of Estonian national interests. Once again, I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the entire Riigikogu for their good cooperation. Thank you. And now I'm ready to answer your demanding but friendly questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U6	There's gonna be a lot of questions. Valdo Randpere, first question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U7	Thank you. Friendly question, Urmas. Your presentation also said that Estonia has decided to open an embassy in Singapore. For many years Estonia has wondered whether it would open its embassies somewhere in Southeast Asia, and has so far covered the area alternately from Beijing, though Tallinn. In recent years, a choice was considered between Bangkok and Singapore, as far as I know. Now it's decided in favour of Singapore, and I want to ask why. Singapore has made direct investments of 2.5 million euros from Estonia, which is not very much. There has been significantly more investment in Thailand. I don't have the numbers, but I know the businessmen who have invested more than 2.5 million. In Thailand, there are at least 10,000 of the last numbers of Estonians a year, I do not have any, and there is a lot going on with these people. There's a couple thousand people going to Singapore a year. For what reasons was it decided that there should be an embassy in Singapore and not in Bangkok to cover Southeast Asia and, in fact, a much bigger market and region than Singapore is?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U8	Thank you. Right now we're covering Singapore Delhi, South Korea's covering our Japanese ambassador. The starting point for this decision is, in fact, the potential that could serve the interests of our external economy, above all, I am thinking of investments in this region. And Singapore is an important business and capital centre, there is no doubt about that. Our sympathy for Thailand is unconditional; there is not a single inch of free space in it. But it's always limited resources when we think about where we're going. And during this debate, I can assure you, we also worked seriously with our business organisations. The diplomats of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who are responsible for the economic field, carried out their analyses and the arguments put forward we are always prepared to present to the Committee on Foreign Affairs as well. It was a decision made under limited resources. I consider it reasonable to support this and it was also considered reasonable to support it by the government, which made decisions two weeks ago on the opening of new diplomatic missions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U9	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U10	Thank you. Thank you very much for your presentation. I'm gonna ask you this. As we know, we can apply for an electronic tourist visa for Russia to travel to St Petersburg. Has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also thought about finding a similar opportunity in the direction of Pihkva to facilitate crossing the border between the people of South-East Estonia and South-Estonia? Once a simplified system is no longer in force. And two: we know that at the end of the year Russia issued 100000 e-visos in a simplified way and this proved to be hugely popular. While you said that it is unthinkable for us to turn over a new page in relations between the West and Russia, would it still be conceivable to take such an approach, for example, on the part of Europe? Do you think it would improve or worsen relationships?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U11	Thank you. Would it be positive? As for the movement of the people of Petseri County, going to the graves of loved ones, yes, the people who live in the area, and also the more distant residents, are crossing the border. Would it be positive if this border crossing were easier and could actually move more widely, let's say, in Pihkva region. Of course, this would be positive and we would certainly welcome it. We have a separate cooperation group on visa issues between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the two countries. In this cooperation, our starting point is that we protect the interests of our citizens so that they can cross the border with as few obstacles as possible, bearing in mind, of course, other considerations, including security considerations. Do I consider it appropriate to take decisions based on Russian considerations, taking as an example the entry regime that Russia has introduced for third countries? Do I consider it reasonable that Estonia raises the subject of visa liberalisation in the current context of relations between Russia and the European Union? No, I don't think that's reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U12	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U13	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm sorry that I actually have three issues in one question. External economic activity is undoubtedly important and so far, in my opinion, paying attention to it has been insufficient. And from that point of view, I'm asking. Firstly, one thing is that we talk a lot about Estonian exports. We are also talking about Estonia's investments, but I think little attention is paid to how much Estonian entrepreneurs invest abroad so that we have become sufficiently wealthy. What are your thoughts in this direction? The second question is that we have another institution that deals with external communication, that is EAS. Unfortunately, there are signals that cooperation between diplomats and EAS representatives is not always the best. And the third issue: from time to time, domestic policy issues have become such that it can worsen foreign policy relations, including economic relations. What is your comment on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U14	Thank you. First of all, foreign economic relations. It is true that, when there was an economic crisis, the foreign economy was drawn into a narrower direction in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Priority was given to security, and I do not condemn in any way the choice made in this environment. In fact, now is the time for us to thrive on the development of the external economy. As I said, EUR 3.1 million has been allocated this year. In the country's budget strategy, the government has foreseen, I hope, that Parliament will support this in the next budgets, to increase this amount to 5 million next year and to 7 million next year. In short, our approach is expansionary. If we look at the foreign investment figures in comparison with the Baltic countries in the time series of recent years, we do not have much cause for boasting. We're gonna have to pull ourselves together, and we are. Now the question of whether our interest is also the expansion of Estonian companies to third countries, is it necessary for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to act in the direction of the foreign economy. The answer is unambiguous: yes. In my dreams, I see Estonia as a country of headquarters, where trademarks are Estonian-centred and produce wealth for our people. There's no attitude at all. And it is certainly very important in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that I have told everyone when I have met with business organisations, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Estonian diplomats will protect Estonian entrepreneurs if they are harmed in third countries or are confronted with legal or other obstacles in good faith. In doing so, we will, of course, treat all Estonian entrepreneurs and investors equally and uniformly. As regards whether our internal policies have harmed Estonia's external economic relations, I have no reason to say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U15	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U16	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, This annual debate sums up last year. Thank you for this conclusion. Internationally, there is still a time of unrest and, as in many previous years, Estonia's welfare continues to be linked to the ability to contain Russia, how Europe can be strengthened, and how America can be kept close to us. On the subject of Europe's future, on the subject of strengthening Europe, we are going to have a number of discussions, both in the context of the future conference and in the context of the Green Pact. But if you think about strengthening relations with the United States, could it be time to ask again when was the last time we were on a foreign mission with the United States?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U17	Thank you. In practice, together with the United States of America, when we are talking about contributing to security in different countries, we are in one country: Estonian soldiers are in Iraq. Estonia's limited contingent is in Afghanistan. You are asking whether to consider expanding foreign missions with a special emphasis on the United States. I always have sympathy for these proposals. If we look at the ambition with which the government has come up and for which the mandate was given for this year, we will actually see a surge in growth: if I am not mistaken, the double increase of the maximum mandates. I think it is right that we are prepared to contribute ourselves to the production of security, not just to be consumers of security. And certainly there has been a special weight in these relations during the previous governments and also in the United States of America during this government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U18	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As you pointed out in your report, we have military and civilian missions. But foreign policy is not only dependent on how we behave or are abroad, it also has a very strong internal political context. Recently, it has become unclear what your government partners have said, which has affected, for example, the presence of foreign students in Estonia and their ability to work. Your partner's EKRE wants to force them into a very small opportunity to work alongside learning. Here's my question. Certainly what we are doing inside the country can affect the behaviour of our potential partners at some point. What foreign policy objective could such a restriction serve? Would we like our students abroad to be similarly restricted if they want to study there and are able to work more than two hours a day? What purpose does this serve?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U20	We stand for the interests of Estonian children unconditionally, we fight on all levels where this issue is important. Now this question is whether there can be some correlation between the acquisition of higher education by students from third countries and the country's foreign policy course. No, I think it is a question of the country's educational policy choices, which the country is sovereign to make. The European Union has its own principles of intra-Union movement. In the case of third countries, I would point out, for example, that, as far as I know, at least one Nordic country has established the principle that free education is not provided to third-country nationals; they have to pay for education. This distinction between European Union and third-country nationals is, in my opinion, a legitimate choice of countries. We, too, could actually discuss this: it is both an educational policy and an economic policy choice. This has nothing to do with whether we are unsympathetic to third countries whose citizens' rights could be restricted. It is certainly not the intention of this government to reduce the competitiveness of our higher education in any way and to prevent young people from coming here to study, to acquire a specialty according to the rules. There's no way we want to narrow it down or downgrade it. No, according to the rules that we impose ourselves, young people are actually welcome to study here in Estonia. It's nice to have a family here. Educated young people, why can't they work here? What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U21	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U22	Thank you. You mentioned at the beginning of your speech that Estonia stands for a European Union that is a Union of States, not a Union of States. At the same time, a senior German CDU politician recently mentioned that the European Union should set up its own nuclear decommissioning programme and that Germany and France should cooperate significantly more closely in the nuclear weapons field. French President Macron has confirmed the sovereignty of the French nuclear programme, but at the same time he says that this nuclear programme has an authentic European dimension, that these weapons are not intended to be reduced and that their existence is seen precisely in the light of Europe's defence needs. Does this mean, however, that France and Germany are moving towards some kind of federal state with a common defence policy with a common defence force such as nuclear weapons protection?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U23	Thank you. Nuclear weapons are certainly weapons of mass destruction of a unique nature. Certainly those countries that have nuclear weapons have an interest in maintaining their summer migration on these issues. NATO is, in fact, based on the principles of nuclear deterrence and nuclear capability. In fact, as Minister of Defence, I have also listened to the review of nuclear weapons given to NATO defence ministers, that we have nuclear weapons as well. Very interesting perspective. But when it comes to the view of one politician or another, whether to transfer it to a country's holistic approach, I would not go that far. Of course, when we are talking about stronger integration of the European Union, this debate has been sending to the European Union since it was founded. It is not the debate that has vanished into nowhere, whether an 'integrated unit of international law' could be developed from the European Union. Similarly, the debate goes on over the European defence dimension, the so-called European Union army. Estonia's position is unambiguous and clear: we do not consider it appropriate to build a double NATO. It's just not rational. Moreover, in my opinion, this would not lead to an additional security guarantee if its so-called collective defence mechanisms come into contact with each other, it could, on the contrary, create confusion and discourage the automation of defence mechanisms. At the same time, we are of the opinion that all the countries of the European Union, including those that do not belong to NATO, should pursue this goal, which was set under the Estonian Presidency of the European Union. Two per cent of GDP, I recall, is set not only for NATO but also for the countries of the European Union as a political ambition. We certainly consider it reasonable to cooperate in the development of the capacity, with all countries that are of the same kind as us. This is what I meant when referring to the PESCO programme, it was again under the Estonian Presidency of the European Union. In short, if it is a defence dimension, a hybrid threat, it makes sense for the countries of the European Union to cooperate in implementing a policy of discouragement, but not to try to create a NATO copy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U24	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U25	Good manager! Minister, this is the time of great change and Ursula von der Leyen is planning to pay close attention to the climate. In less than a month, there should be a climate law. Do you have any idea what that is? However, the President of the Commission has also said that we need a new and fresh view of migration. And that means that the Dublin agreement has to be reformed somehow. The second question is whether you, as Minister for Foreign Affairs of a sovereign state, have any idea how far it is and what these changes are.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U26	Thank you. Of course, I have had conversations about the further development of the reform package of the Dublin Treaty. There have also been discussions with Members of the Commission about this. I understand that this is now the phase in which the Member of the Commission who deals with these issues consults the Member States. I think that it certainly makes sense for the Commission to work very closely and very sensitively with the Member States on these issues and to listen carefully to those countries that do not want to restrict their migration quotas or otherwise their sovereignty on these issues. It is clear that in times of crisis, countries must help each other together, but according to their abilities. It is clear that there is a need for cooperation on these issues, but there are some things that are very unacceptable to several countries. There is no doubt about that. However, this issue itself is, in fact, on the table of the Ministers of the Interior. I am sure that when the Commission's proposals come, it will probably be our Ministry of the Interior, our country will formulate its positions, and we will also find positions to support in the Commission's initiative. If we do not have the right points, we will not hesitate to say them either, we will cooperate with the countries of the same kind on these issues. Now, the climate package. This is a pan-European vision or plan for the European Union to achieve its objective of climate neutrality by 2050. I know it is coordinated by the Ministry of the Environment in Estonia, but there is cooperation with different authorities in building up positions. This will certainly have an extremely high impact. In addition to the economic, ecological, environmental impacts, there is certainly a very large social impact on the way of life of the people of the countries. So I think that it is certainly very important to hold a very serious, attentive and inclusive debate on Estonia's positions in Parliament, in the people's representation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U27	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U28	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I fully share the idea you expressed in your speech that a rule-based world order is important to Estonia and that the primacy of international law is also important. Estonia's foreign policy has been successful precisely because of its consistency. But what have we seen in the last year? We have seen that our foreign policy has produced ideologically spiced domestic political gambling. It comes out most clearly when we talk about Estonian-Russian relations, including the border agreement. After all, a world order based on rules would require that issues such as border agreements, which are as important as security, can be resolved in a reasonable way. However, we see how the coalition's leading politicians are going so far now that they are prepared to make territorial demands on Russia. In an interview today, your own party chairman said that under no circumstances should the border treaty, which was signed in 2014, be ratified. On the contrary, new negotiations must be initiated with Russia on the border agreement. Please, tell me what your opinion is as Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U29	Thank you. There's no confusion. The position of the government is clear, and if this position is not suitable for anyone, then I will have to express my regret. In 2014, the Republic of Estonia has signed a new border line, which was agreed bilaterally between Estonia and Russia. Does this government intend to revise it now and present a new proposal to the Russian Federation on the progress of the border line? No, there's no plan. Secondly, we know the logic that if a new treaty has not entered into force, then the previous agreement will apply. This is also a reality in international relations, whether it is a matter of any legal order. Now, thirdly, does this government intend to present the border treaty to the Riigikogu for ratification in the present future? I can say no to that. In fact, we must undoubtedly take into account the fact that the border line agreement signed in 2014 was delayed at the request of the Russian Federation on various motives. The authorities of the Russian Federation have not made a secret of these motives either. I refer to the words of my fellow Member Mr Lavrov from the year before that the precondition for ratification of the border treaty by the Russian Federation is the change in Estonian politics, the end of the Russophobic policy. I can emphatically stress that this is a completely misleading position, as if Estonian politics contained something like this. However, setting such political conditions, in an attempt to limit the sovereignty of our country, is certainly not a fact that we would accept. We must certainly look at the perspective of the border agreement from this perspective as well, that one thing is the passage of the border line on which this document has been signed in 2014, but the other is the concept of the past relations between our countries, history. Here, we must certainly be very careful not to step on slippery ice in view of future international legal relations, so that the continuance of our country can be called into question with the country created in 1918 by the will of the Estonian people. Nor must the fact of the illegal occupation of Estonia be called into question. In fact, Russia has strengthened its rhetoric. Russia's legal-historical narrative has been quite the same in these two decades, but recently it has actually strengthened its rhetoric in this area, its false narrative from the legal past of our country. I believe that we must certainly recall these warnings also in the environment of international law that has sent us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U30	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In maintaining allied relations as a small country, it is important that our foreign policy positions are unambiguously understood, so that we do not have a number of different foreign policies displayed outside. You have affected climate policy, which is one of the priorities of the European Union in the next period. But I would like to remind you that the debate on climate policy in the European Union Committee recently was also discussed in the financial framework, which the finance ministers are discussing, and the Estonian Minister of Finance said that he does not have faith in climate policy. That was the message. You yourself write here that the government supports climate goals, but it is also necessary to maintain the region's competitiveness, i.e. to continue financing the oil shale industry from the state budget. How do you solve this dilemma in foreign policy messages? We support climate policy objectives, but at the same time the country finances the oil shale industry?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U32	Thank you. There is no contradiction here. I mean, if this matter, for the climate policy objectives that the European Union has set so great a national socio-economic impact, I would argue that it must not be seen at all as a foreign policy issue. There is undoubtedly an inherent internal political question of what will be our competitiveness, what will be the ecological impacts that we will undoubtedly have to analyse with a view to the future of the whole planet. There are certainly very extreme views on this in one way or another, for example, calling for children's wealth to be limited in the name of climate policy objectives. I categorically reject such extreme thoughts. We still have to think that we are one nation that has its own responsibility for ecological processes in the world. There are major trends in which we definitely need to think pragmatically about how to use the trend towards green technology for the development of the Estonian economy. But surely we also have our own national interests in all areas. They are important and concern our vital questions. There's nothing to be ashamed of. Yes, the parties have different positions, and I am sure that there are also very different positions within the parties. I would like to remind you of the question that the European Union document will come out in the coming months. It is natural for a debate to be launched across Europe on how to meet these objectives. There's nothing to be ashamed of when we have a multiplicity of views. I categorically reject these claims that Estonia has some sort of foreign policy. When we talk about debate and debate, trying to level them is one question. I don't think the debate is bad at all, that's, I think, the strength of our little people. In our efforts to regain independence, we also had very different strategies to achieve independence. And we finally reached a common line, which, I think, was reasonable. If there are positions agreed in the government, they must be carried out as a team, rather than acting like a swan, pike, and cancer. Within nine months of this government's operation, I can tell you, everything has worked. What has been agreed, the decisions that have been reached, have been realised. No one has worked in disguise or in public against acts. This is very important, it is a common country's internal or foreign policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U33	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In this comprehensive presentation, I was attracted to a seemingly small thing. It was said that it was time to introduce the success of our education internationally and that a special envoy for education would be created in cooperation with the Ministry of Education. We know that Estonia has achieved results in very good cooperation between families and schools, which have attracted international attention, we are in good places in the rankings. It's only our honor. But now I'm going to ask you exactly what this special envoy is going to do. I understand that the aim is to market our educational practices. But why don't you tell me exactly where this special envoy is going, where it's going, where it's going, and so on?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U35	Thank you, Urve! It's not a small thing at all, it's actually a very important thing. You caught one of the most exciting aspects of my presentation with the eyes of a experienced person. What's this about? The question is that we need to increase Estonia's influence, which concerns security policy interests, various international initiatives, and look for supporters. It is certainly an important interest for Estonia to have a good image as a country in different fields. And we believe it can be developed by using new exciting opportunities. I must admit that the Minister of Education is, in fact, the advocate of this idea in the case of the PISA test. The Minister of Education gave a presentation on this in the Government's Economic Commission and the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that we, with our network of diplomats, are trying to support this planned action by the Ministry of Education. The Minister of Education's push for such thinking or the vision of the Ministry of Education is that we can market the strengths of our education in a good way as successfully as Finland has done. We would like to introduce the positive experiences of our education and also make an international contribution in this regard. We must certainly look at the opportunities we accept in the various sectors, looking for export opportunities for education. I must admit that when I attended the OSCE Foreign Ministers' meeting in Vienna in December, colleagues came to me and congratulated me on the results of the PISA test. I was quite sincerely surprised that this news had come to the foreign ministers of quite a remote area. So if this news talks to people, it's capital, it's an asset, we can't miss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U36	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U37	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! We also have a diplomatic corps in this Chamber today, who will certainly make a very comprehensive memo to their headquarters about what they heard here today. But not only that, they will certainly also make regular reviews of what is really happening in domestic politics. And inevitably, as a long-term minister, you must admit that internal policy has a pretty significant impact on foreign policy. But with my question, I am actually turning to the speeches made by your government colleagues regarding the possible politicisation of the courts or also the politicisation of the External Action Service. What is your message to the diplomatic corps and to us in this room? How do we confirm the unity of the Estonian Government, if different ministers have a completely different understanding, what should Estonia have in terms of judicial power and what should the External Action Service be like?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U38	Thank you. Dear diplomats, you've noticed! My good long-time brother Hanno Pevkur's question had been asked so that you could write in the memos so that the question of politicising the courts was discussed in Parliament. You may have referred to the words of the Minister of Finance in your question, which I rather understood in a vocal way, and I would not have chosen such a language, but his warning was precisely so that the courts would not be politicised. If you ask whether any of the coalition partners in this government are planning activities within the government to turn the courts of the Republic of Estonia into political courts or otherwise subjugate courts to political, executive or legislative power, this government has not discussed such activities. Has the External Action Service discussed it? No, it has not been discussed by Estonian diplomats. The External Action Service has not discussed this either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U39	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U40	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. For Estonia and Estonians, everything that concerns Finno-Ugric indigenous peoples in Russia, their situation, their culture and their identity has always been very close to their heart. Could you point out what Estonia's greatest achievements in this area have been during this year and what are the things where there is still room for improvement?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U41	Thank you. Well, there's room for improvement. If we look at this agenda, which the Russian Federation also applies to these indigenous peoples, then it must be said that surely our moral mission is to fully support these nations, these cultures, their national self-consciousness. I know that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has conducted a very grateful and interesting hearing on these issues. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is certainly always ready to come along and help with its strength and advice. In a large way, I do not know how to name transnational projects on this issue between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Estonia. It is rather cultural cooperation projects. After all, we have a number of very devoted, very good people whose life's work, the mission is to preserve, store, record, and preserve the Finno-Ugric heritage. Certainly, the identity of these indigenous peoples, their self-consciousness, their self-respect must not fade away; this is a very important message which it is right to proclaim in this Chamber as well. Although it cannot be given a political dimension in relations between countries, it can be given a deeper cultural meaning. The right of nationalities to their identity will certainly be strongly reflected in the summer Finno-Ugric Peoples Congress in Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U42	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U43	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! My question concerns Georgia, which was briefly mentioned in the speech. Of course, we all support Georgia's democracy and territorial integrity, and Estonia is a great friend of Georgia. But I am concerned about the decline of democracy, to say the least, in Georgia recently. You're probably watching it the same as all Georgian friends. I note: the postponement of electoral reform, contrary to the recommendations of the European institutions, the last presidential elections were very critically assessed by the OSCE and elsewhere, allegedly by the political subjugation of the courts. The Chairs of the Foreign Affairs Committee of both US Chambers of Congress have expressed critical views in this regard. And now the imprisonment of opposition leaders, as well as the imprisonment of opposition journalists, has just intensified. Yesterday, Gigi Ugulava, former mayor of Tbilisi, who has been in prison for three years, was sentenced to the same thing. I'm very worried about all these things. My question is whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister share this concern. Clearly, at one point these processes must start to undermine Georgia's European perspective, and this is already against Estonia's interests. Will there be a day when Estonia will do something in this direction to get Georgia back on track?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U44	Thank you. Let's just say that I had a thorough examination of the report by the International Venice Commission on the Georgian presidential elections, and it contained a number of serious problems. Estonia is an old devoted friend and supporter of the Georgian people, Georgia. But the conduct of fair, transparent elections and compliance with the rule of law are the political preconditions that the European Union has placed on its enlargement in accordance with the Copenhagen criteria. I do not hesitate to say here that these issues, which concerned the problems of holding free elections, are a cause for concern. I don't deny it. I think it is the task of Georgian friends, both nationalities and diplomats and politicians, to draw attention to this. It is important that political dialogue takes place. Otherwise, there is a danger, as we remember from the past, that in fact there is a dialogue on the streets and conflicts in society are growing. The prerequisite for this dialogue is that there are uniform rules of play for political power, democracy. So, therefore, there are parliamentary elections of extremely important importance that are ahead of them. Certainly their honest conduct is vital. And I have actually spoken to my Georgian colleague on these issues, and I will certainly do so in the future. I have also met Mr Vashadze and talked about these matters. Estonia is an unconditional supporter of the aspirations of freedom for the Georgian people, and it certainly also points to concerns. It's not a shame to do that between friends.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U45	Natalia Malleus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. From 1 October last year, the Russian Government introduced free electronic visas to visit the regions of St Petersburg and Leningrad and Kaliningrad. A week ago, news came out that Lithuanian intelligence estimated this to be a threat to national security. In your opinion, could this also pose a threat to Estonia's security?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U47	Well, I'm sure there's a greater security risk when people move to the east for us. However, the possible migration issues also need to be looked at in terms of security. Does our Ministry of Foreign Affairs have at its disposal the assessments of the Estonian security authorities as to whether, thanks to an electronic visa, this more free movement, created by the decisions to relax the Russian visa regime, also poses a threat to the security of our country? I have no such information at my disposal. I do not know what arguments this Lithuanian analysis is based on. The Estonian security authorities have not, at least publicly, assessed it in this way. I know that our Foreign Intelligence Department report should come up tomorrow. It is possible that this issue will be dealt with there, possibly not. I don't have any information on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U48	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U49	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I will continue on the subject of the Special Envoy for Education. I also think that this is a very right step for us to start marketing our success in education. At the same time, it must have been negotiated, which still has brought us this success. The first part of my question is what will be the messages of this special envoy, which has guaranteed our very good results in the PISA test. And secondly, has this Special Envoy for Education been elected yet? If so, who is he, and if he is not, how will this special envoy for education be chosen?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U50	Thank you. I say this: in the work portfolio of this special envoy of education, there are still marketing tasks related to education. His work centre is in fact that essentially his colleagues are in the Ministry of Education. I am sure that this Special Envoy for Education will be chosen in such a way that the difficulty of selection falls to the employees of the Ministry of Education. They choose the Special Envoy for Education. The Special Envoy for Education should be the person who internationally delivers this message and also tunes our diplomats to take action in this area, to spread the message. A substantive message package will be developed in the Ministry of Education. I am sure that it will be convincing, credible, objective, more famous and honorable for Estonia. There is no doubt about that. But the topic of why our children have been so successful in the PISA test is very exciting. The explanations have also been very exciting. I remember that Michael Moore once made a film about Finland and he came to one of the conclusions as to why Finnish children have been so successful in the PISA test, why the level of education in Finland has been so high. The one-phrase answer that sounded in that documentary was that children in Finland are not given homework. I've remembered it for a long time. I have also asked the Minister for Education, who is in office, and he has said that there really is a certain correlation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U51	Tiit Kala, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, My question concerns the migration crisis. How do you assess Hungary's efforts to physically control its borders?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U53	Thank you. I think that it is, of course, the task of all Schengen countries to control the Schengen external borders. This is an obligation that countries have entered into by signing the Schengen Agreement. Of course, this must be done on the basis of the rule of law, guaranteeing security, guaranteeing the rights of all people. It's self-evident. But I think that in reality we need to understand that, in view of future generations, when we look at demographic trends, what happened at the top of the 2015 migration crisis was actually an introduction to migratory pressure. The number of 'climate refugees' alone is expected to be 70 million more by 2050. When climate issues are discussed, they say it was an introduction. The answer to this can actually be, alongside reasonable and humane measures, that Europe must be able to control its borders. If we feel the enormous migratory pressure from all over the world and give an ambiguous signal that people can also come here ignoring the rule of law and the principle of national sovereignty, then we ourselves will encourage this migratory pressure. It would lead to a spiral that we can no longer control, and the result is chaos, extremism, very apocalyptic results.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U54	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U55	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You thanked the Riigikogu for its cooperation. The Riigikogu also certainly appreciates the fact that the government and the Minister of Foreign Affairs cooperate with us. Here's the question. In recent times, the government has taken two quite important foreign policy decisions. One was the need to shape the attitude towards the so-called Middle East Peace Plan presented by the President of the United States, the other being the accession to the Alliance for Freedom of Religion. As far as I know, the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not consult either before the Riigikogu or our Foreign Affairs Committee; these decisions were taken in the government without the involvement of the Riigikogu. Why is that? Why did you not wish to involve the Riigikogu in the decision-making of these questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U56	Thank you. As far as the Middle East Peace Plan is concerned, it is a comprehensive document, if I am not mistaken, 181 pages on the White House website. The proposal made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the government was undoubtedly that we welcome the initiative of the United States. However, a number of points in this initiative are undoubtedly contrary to the existing principles of international law. Of course, we are not taking a position on this whole plan. However, it is certainly important, as I emphasised, that the parties to the peace process should engage in dialogue. Now, that religious freedom alliance. We actually discussed this issue, if I am not mistaken, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs already in the autumn. It has not been a secret that, in October, when I signed a memorandum of cooperation with the Secretary of State of the United States, it also included this sympathetic value-based initiative. I also provided the government with information on this document, and once the government had taken note of it, I, on an ongoing basis, before formally joining this initiative, also immediately submitted the information to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I believe in the movement of open information and the calls to correct it I will sign with two hands. I have repeatedly stressed that Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs has a unique role to play under our foreign relations law. It must actually be a coordinating institution and in liaison with all external communication bodies. And I think that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has done this kind of work quite effectively in view of the spirit of consensus. I have been very sympathetic to follow this during these months when I have been able to discuss these issues with the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U57	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U58	Thank you. Good Minister, thank you for your presentation. I will continue with the interests of the Estonian state in economic matters. You also mentioned this in your presentation as one of the main foreign policy priorities. You mentioned, among other things, that 3 million and 5 million and 7 million will be allocated this year to promote business diplomacy over the next two years. This also means more economic diplomats in different embassies. My question is twofold. Economic diplomats are certainly very important, but they are still the means to achieve an objective. What is Estonia's global ambition in the field of economics and business? And how do different authorities act to achieve this ambition? To be a little more precise: what do we want to achieve with this money? The second question concerns government policies and activities to support the careers of Estonian citizens and work in international organisations that are important to us. What are the plans in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U59	Thank you. Two very exciting topics. I'll start with the other one. I actually asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to produce a long paper that would list the various international top offices that will open in the next five years. There is nothing to say: congratulations to the southern neighbours! I see the sympathetic Latvian ladies have made a very impressive career in the European Commission's agencies. We've had a lot of people move there, too. But I think that making a career in politics or other international professions, both in Europe and in the rest of the world, should be a separate aspect of human resources policy in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If we appoint diplomats and send them to represent Estonia, this choice should not, in fact, relate only to the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If there are people from Eesti Pank, other institutions, including politics, who have an interest in achieving an international position, then we should have a mechanism by which the state legally determines that yes, this person is a candidate with the mandate of our country. At present, this has been the case in a number of cases when a national representative writes a recommendation. I've also written a letter of recommendation to a number of people, and there's nothing wrong with giving such a letter of recommendation to a good, reliable person. But it's not really over, it's just starting. In fact, there must be a lobby agenda: we are going to work, we are going to look for allies, we are going to influence and we are going to achieve a result. And in the same way, there's nothing to be ashamed of, it has to apply to certain other matters. If we are going to support someone in international diplomacy, transnational communication, there is nothing to be ashamed of. However, if we support a candidate from a third country, we want to see how, under any circumstances, this third country would be prepared to support our people. In general, in diplomacy, as maybe in politics, agreements are not made that if you support an international agreement, I will support your people. Usually, human resources policy issues are in one platter and other issues are in another platter. So I see an opportunity to contribute more widely and strongly, as realistic as it is in the case of a small country, so that our good men and women are also in high positions. One thing for sure: I hope that our membership in the Security Council will also be beneficial. We have good Estonian citizens who work in the UN machinery, but not in prominent positions, whether as diplomats or in the administration system. We could also have this goal in order to improve the know-how when moving along these corridors. As far as the external economy is concerned, we discussed this in the government. If you don't know Kadri Maasik, I'll tell them he's a reliable person, an expert, now Deputy Secretary of State for Administration of the State Department. They made a specific model. The idea is not just to increase the number of officials and to imagine that this will bring wealth. The starting point is that we define specifically the toolbox and its performance criteria as metrics, how they will operate. The ambition is that it should bring Estonia at least 40 million euros in additional revenue during the three-year period. It is, however, a purely constructed model. It is undoubtedly not possible to prove by mechanical checks or invoices that this has happened. But that's what ambition is. We really want to get more money, and so-called more money, but it is not just that officials are hired and that is what is going to happen. Now, the priorities of the Estonian economy are that what will be done. Here, cooperation with EAS was referred to as how well it is. Cooperation with EAS, I must admit, is poor in the opinion of several business organisations. I think it could be more effective, too. It is also suggested here that perhaps certain organisations could be joined together, I am not afraid of such a debate at all. I have sent a letter to the Minister for Enterprise with a proposal to set up a small working group of all those involved to review the possibilities for cooperation. When criticism comes from different directions, especially from customers, business organisations, I think that they must be heard seriously. The development of external economic relations is not like an abstract thing in space. This work still takes place in the space where entrepreneurs are, whether from Estonia or from outside. As regards the priorities, I think that the priorities of the Estonian economic space in foreign economic policy are quite well recorded as such a modus operandi in the foreign policy development plan drawn up by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But these are certainly not independent subjects. The economic goals of the Estonian state, including export goals, are, I think, quite exhaustively written in both government documents and several documents on Estonia's competitiveness. We have too many papers. There is no lack of speech, I say frankly, there is no speech in Estonia. If we have a deficit in everything else, you can't say that you see more papers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U60	Valdo Randpere, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U61	Thank you. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! I will continue with a short reply to my first question. In my opinion, however, if the choice is between Singapore and Bangkok, believe me, the people of Estonia need diplomatic representation, the embassy more in Bangkok. And these same Estonian people are also your voters and my voters. But now I have another question. You were eager to talk about the importance of our allies, our allies guaranteeing our security. And then, not with the same enthusiasm, and not for the same length, but for a little while, you also spoke about the external Estonian community, which is also awfully important to us. Now if you try to put these two things together. You see, the outside community lives abroad, many of them in allied countries. It is almost the only wish of foreign Estonians, but a great desire, if they meet with me, probably also with you, that the Estonian state could allow them double citizenship without breaking the law. But this is probably against the current government, including you. Allies, on the move, okay, on the outside, okay, but these two together, when these people have double citizenship, they're a security risk, as I've heard in this hall. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U62	Thank you. Who could wrong your allegiance, Valdo, Thailand. Thailand is a great place as a tourist area, a culturally fascinating place, with a deep history. In our sympathy for Thailand, as I emphasised, we will not hesitate for a second. I think it is certainly important to provide people with consular services. This government has just approved one ambition agenda as part of a broad foreign policy, in order to be more able to provide digitally, above all, identity documents, travel documents. It really is a pretty crazy situation right now. Our country is such a digital tiger, but a person, let's assume, lives somewhere in Latin America, and must travel to Washington or this year to San Francisco to sign a paper that he wants to get a passport. Then he goes back to the jungle to Latin America and then get his passport again. A single document, true, very sacred and dignified because of the development of a document, we imagine what time and resource costs. This certainly does not make sense. It makes sense to organise it as the United Kingdom and Latvia have done. We can also manage and, at the same time, we can guarantee security by using a reliable courier service. Still the mail, the paper should move, not the person flying in the plane. We have these ideas about how we can provide better consular services. We will certainly be able to guarantee people's consular protection through third country representations in Thailand as well. That's the deal. Now the question of double citizenship. I have noted this, I think, yesterday I have read the official position of the Russian Federation, which in principle concerns the approval of a policy of granting Russian citizenship with a simplified regime. I understand that there are drafts and other procedures ahead, but in general, the political signal from the Russian Federation is such that it is prepared to give citizenship to the Russian Federation to 'third-country nationals' as well. In fact, people can also retain the citizenship of third countries. Of course, I, too, have been asked about this by a number of people in the external community. This concerns people really do, in many cases it has been mentioned, and I do not deny that at all. But people need to be calmly explained. The question is not that a particular nice person living in Canada or Finland is a security risk. Far from it, madness! On the contrary, this person is our security assets, not our security risks. But at the same time, I must admit that since we are a very small country, we are a very small nation, we are imagining not a surreal picture at all, but a theoretically completely possible situation, so that citizens of the Russian Federation, for example, make up the majority of the inhabitants of Tallinn or Ida-Virumaa. This leads to a different context, which also has its own security dimension. Those who deny it live either in reality or simply in the name of a political apetitite promise ignore security interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U63	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U64	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. First of all, Minister for Foreign Affairs, thank you for a thorough review and for the answers to the very substantive questions. I also take this opportunity to recognise both honorary consuls and other diplomats who literally serve the Estonian state, citizens, entrepreneurs, as well as local governments. I have a very good experience: as a person from Viljandi City and as a representative of Viljandi City, I met honorary consul Igor Goncearov in Moldova. What a contact he has made between a small town and its municipalities! But we also have what we teach as experience, this direction is not one-sided. You spoke very thoroughly about everything that is very well, but having met different diplomats, you also know that they certainly have a number of concerns. You will definitely go to discussions on the country's budget strategy with your proposals and proposals. Perhaps you mention the concerns that you, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, have reached, which need to be resolved in order to ease the work of our diplomats?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U65	Mr. Minister! Valdo Randpere has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U66	Thank you. I'm sorry to interrupt Helmen like this! But my question was about the outside Estonians living in the Allied States. I didn't ask for a word about Russia. I have never talked about giving Russian citizens double citizenship. I don't understand why you're bringing this up. I asked you, what's your problem with the outside Estonians of the Allied States? You're gonna tell me about the Russians.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U67	That goes a little out of the scope of the procedural question. Now let's give Helmen Hunt a chance to answer the question. Minister, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U68	Thank you. Good Valdo! The question is now... I think, of course, in the interests of the verbatim, things have to be resolved. The verbatim report of the Riigikogu is an important thing. As a student, I read a report from the Riigikogu from the war period; it was a very exciting reading. Very exciting reading! And the next knees will come and read what we discussed here. But here's the question. Look, I remember the chairman of the sitting also remembers it from the time his foreign minister was a Russian military pensioner. We had a huge riot, whether or not they were staying here. The OSCE representative was here, and the individual Commission examined things. Mr. Kross, he's out there somewhere, he's out there, he's an operative. But in the end, those who could and could not stay were determined by the Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court. And he did it perfectly legitimately, constitutionally, on the basis of people's fundamental rights. In fact, you want to treat people unequally. Well, I understand you want to define a circle of countries whose citizens can afford double citizenship. But I will be honest with you that in the end, it is actually a question of whether people are being treated equally or not. I remember Yana Toom saying very clearly that she thought it would be an unequal treatment of people. This would actually be appreciated by the Supreme Court in the constitutional review procedure. And when you say that the constitutional review procedure comes to the conclusion, for example, that people can be treated unequally when there are certain arguments. But you and I can't say today that this is the decision of the Supreme Court. That would be the politicisation of the court, that would be the influence of the court when we say what the court is likely to decide. He'll make up his mind either way. But suppose they say that all persons, including citizens of the Russian Federation for example, must be given double citizenship. You're not pushing toothpaste back into the tube. You're not going to take double citizenship away from the people they gave it to, are you? Then you say or we can only say one word: sorry. You'll see, won't you? But the country can't be built on the sorry, so if you need to think about a hundred years in advance, there's nothing you can do. Now Helmen's question just a very right, very important question. In this year's perspective, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is I see that as one, let's say, strategic problem we're growing real estate debt. I'm talking about buildings right now. We were seriously talking in the Committee on Foreign Affairs yesterday about the embassy of Abu Dhabi, whether it corresponds to our positive view. We currently have a large amount of EUR 120 million in total need. We do a number of projects. The Roman embassy will be ready this year, San Francisco Consulate will be opened, Warsaw will be added, Helsinki will be repaired, Ottawa will be opened, Washington will be repaired at the beginning of next year, in Riga we bought a new house. So there are actually a variety of things going on, but I think it is important to contribute more to the fact that there are functioning representations that people can work normally. The second question concerns salaries. There's nothing to say. We took a raise. This was an emergency measure for me, and I asked the government for money from the budget in an unusual way. When I took office and took out average salaries by ministry, then, damn it, embarrassing was in front of myself, whose other one must be, after all, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was the last one. There was an explanation back in the day. I understand why the situation in the 1990s was quite different. When a person was on a foreign mission, right, he had a different income. On an external mission, a person so-calledly collected reserves and then came to the main house and was on a low salary. In the current situation, when we look at the cost of living in other countries, it is clear that diplomats do not create any wealth with their incomes. Inevitably, there are extraordinary expenses if you live in a foreign country temporarily. Therefore, if we want this profession to be attractive, so that our career diplomats are motivated to continue in service, we need to think about the motivation for pay. There's nothing to be ashamed of. In fact, the competition for the External Service is very large because of its prestige, its mystery, its mystery, which still surrounds the External Action Service and diplomacy. But I would certainly like people to be more motivated in this environment, in addition to the success story that the External Action Service has presented. There's been a suggestion. Tanel Kiik brought under a very serious discussion the issue of the maintenance load, which concerns the fact that a person actually remains helpless. I was thinking that perhaps we could propose an amendment to the law on the External Action Service: if a long-term diplomat needs care, then allow the state to take it partly if the person does not have economic opportunities. I think we need to look for such motivations to keep the people who are our gold treasure. Our only asset in foreign policy is the External Action Service. So one thing, the External Action Service, is certainly so important that I would like to make proposals to further support this budget. In addition, there are a lot of organisational issues, such as IT developments, which do not stand out in any way, right? We know that the money, the IT development money, goes like a molehole: there's nothing to see, but if you don't put the money in it, there's gonna be a mess. One day is enough, and some kind of service is breaking up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U69	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! There is also the question of foreign diplomacy and foreign workers. I think that most foreign diplomats are very good and politically correct people. Before a good colleague asked whether the government's aim was to politicise the External Action Service. Do you not feel that people in the External Action Service have been politicised before, not all, but some of them? This is demonstrated by the fact that we have foreign servants who have made critical statements about the government currently in office. How do we view those EEAS officials who publicly criticise our current political direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U71	Thank you. Well, attempts to politicize have been made. I remember, in his time, Riivo Sinijärv, Chairman of the Group of the Group of the Pool Party. Jürgen, who has the longest experience here, remembers that Riivo Sinijärv was appointed ambassador of Estonia in the United Kingdom. And many other people have gone from politics to diplomatic service, it was more like the 1990s. I want to stress that when we talk about whether the External Action Service works like a shut-down principle, I think that, as a rule, career logic must apply. There is know-how that you can't compensate for no matter how wide your horizons. We're actually talking about the knowledge we need. When I talk to my colleagues, they can tell me what the position of a country was 10 years ago or 12 years ago. In a small country, there are simply not so many people who can quickly familiarise themselves with this enormous know-how. It is a value to us that we cannot achieve in any other way. But this does not mean that people from other areas of life cannot come to the External Action Service. Actually, they've come. We have a good example: a very successful ambassador in the United States has a sincere appreciation for him, Jonathan Vsevov, isn't it? As Chancellor of the Ministry of Defense, he did a very good job. This job, our deputy chancellor, has also come, before I referred to him, from the Ministry of Education, Mrs. Kadri Maasik. Mr. Rainer Saks, Chancellor of the State Department, has never worked in our headquarters before. Positive examples can always be found. Now the question of whether diplomats go against the positions of our External Action Service or their professional ethics when they criticise government policies. I think we need to make a very clear distinction here, and we actually know the difference. The diplomat represents the positions of his country, represents this legitimate government policy that has been approved. For example, the positions of the European Union in the Committee on European Union Affairs are approved. Of course, the ambassador represents these positions; of course, he is not going to talk any backwards at the table of the Council of the European Union, that it is quite the opposite, that this is a piece of crap and I am thinking quite differently. This is the kind of thing I have never heard anyone do, and it would indeed be a completely inherent conflict of interest in the case of diplomats. But when thoughts are exchanged here in our own family, they say positions, I don't see any drama in it. During my term of office, several diplomats have asked me, and I do not deny that good questioner in front of Riho, demandingly, why has anyone in the government said one thing or another? I won't deny it. I guess I've given you my answers, my statements. We have this dignified, respectful culture in the State Department, I think. People can express their views, also ask questions about government policy. It is my duty to give them my explanation. I didn't realize that our diplomats somehow crossed basic diplomats' professional ethics. Governments come and go, the state remains, diplomats maintain political neutrality in their professional and professional functions. The fact that the Estonian people are exchanging ideas, whether behind a beer cup or a coffee cup, I think that our community life in a small country is normal. I unequivocally reject the wish that we should carry out some sort of cleansing or correction here. I am just as sure that our ambassador, Harri Tiido, has actually served the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 20 years. It's his life's work. And I recall what Harri Tiido wrote on Äripäev when it was the time of Taavi's garment government. He wrote a very interesting article in which he questioned the quota system that Juncker came up with. In fact, he distanced himself from the political agenda of Taavi Rõivas, had a conservative opinion on migration issues, and said that we must not give a false signal on migration. I'm totally joining this view of Harri Tiido. But he concluded his article with a clear statement that these are his personal views, they do not reflect the positions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U72	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! First of all, I would like to thank you for having a very clear and strong position on the rejection of the UN Pact on Migration. But that is not the end of it. Despite the fact that the European Union has failed badly in the fight against migration, only Hungary, Poland and a few other Eastern European countries can be mentioned as separate positive examples, it is still pressing on. The European Commission's 2020 Work Programme states that they intend to give new impetus to addressing migration and border issues and to present a new Pact on Migration and Asylum. As the European Union has basically offered compulsory redistribution quotas and other stupidities, I ask you: are you prepared to oppose mandatory redistribution quotas for the new pact as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U74	Yeah, of course. There can be no other way around. I remember that when Estonia was President-in-Office of the European Union, it was a very difficult moment. Indeed, the President-in-Office is expected to be a neutral arbiter, that he will table a proposal not from the position of his country. Then I guess we spent four or five hours in the government. The Minister of the Interior came with a proposal concerning this redistribution and said that we need to be an arbiter, because the position of most countries is that, as a compromise, to go to the table. So that was the quota model. But I realized that if we put it at the table, even as President-in-Office, we'd actually legitimize it right away. If such a proposal has come up during the Estonian Presidency, it will undoubtedly take away further room for manoeuvre from us. If you put it at the table yourself, why do you answer it later, ask questions, and it's hard to answer, there's a schizophrenic situation. Secondly, it sets a precedent for further discussion. We kept saying that after a long fight, we wrote in a row, maybe somebody will remember. Evgeny's not in the hall. She's out of town. But the question was, in fact, it remained that volunteering must be the basis of all things. If countries wish to relocate, redistribute, if they wish to participate, they can do so on the basis of their sovereign right. This is to be welcomed. And actually, by the end of the day, our ambassador told me that it did not turn out at all so that Estonia would have seemed strange or strange. The President of the European Council, Donald Tusk at the time, made a statement a month later, saying that it really is a model that should be used: the principle of volunteering. So there can be no trading space. Of course, quota systems cannot be built on solutions to the migration crisis; it is not sustainable. This is the view of Estonia. The second question is whether we want to contribute jointly and severally to mitigating the root causes of migration, the migratory pressure. There is no doubt about that. This government is ready to contribute actively and more effectively than before. We had interesting ideas, we have also discussed the offer of contributions at UN level, for example in the form of digital platforms. It is very important, after all, to prove who is who by means of documents systems in other countries. In these things, we're ready to play in every way, a hundred percent.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U75	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U76	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State! During the second reign of Russian President Vladimir Putin, in 2007, the Kremlin's book entitled 'New Russian Doctrine' and 'Time to Spread Wings' was born. The new doctrine is, in fact, the order of action of the Russian Federation. Two strategic objectives will be set. The closest goal is to restore control over the space of post councils, which the Kremlin began to realise with great force in Georgia, later in Ukraine, and to threaten other countries of post councils as well. Belarus is currently under attack, threats have also come to Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Moscow's ultimate strategic objective is to become a global administrator and carry out this by sending its power structures to all continents. They're in the Middle East, or Asia, Africa, Latin America. Question: how likely do you consider the threat of the aggression of the Russian Federation to the Baltic States and to Europe as a whole? And the second question also: is it wise to mock a sick predator cornered, as we sometimes do here, by making complaints to Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U77	Thanks, Ants! You invited me, Ants, I remember, even in my own time, when I stressed the need for a United States military presence in Estonia and Europe, not to poke a bear. It was early 2014, I remember. But I think that the emergency situation, including the security situation, also requires emergency measures. As regards now whether the Russian Federation is a threat to the Baltic States, it is not a threat to the Baltic States individually, it is a threat to NATO as a whole. And so NATO clearly defines it in its communiqués: Russia is seen as a source of danger. There is no doubt about that. Let us imagine: it would be brief or ridiculous to imagine that a nuclear power, our neighbouring country, which has militarily attacked its neighbouring countries over the last decade, does not pose a threat. There is no doubt about that. If you ask as a military officer, our expert estimates are that the probability is low, there is no point in pointing out this threat with a panic sheet. But there is a threat to the entire international security and peace system. There are also concerns about the challenges of China's emergence and the changing of the world's military and economic balance. But in addition to this, I consider it very important to make it very important that Russia carries a greater threat to international peace and security in its unpredictability, which is, of course, greater than during the Cold War. As far as your case is concerned, Russia has been able to increase its influence in the event of various conflicts by acting with its agents or, let us say, addicts, it is undoubtedly a matter of great concern. We see Russia's initiatives most dramatically in Syria, as well as in the Libyan crisis. This certainly forces us to be very attentive in a global view. If Russia is able to use such conflicts as its hybrid source of pressure in third countries, it is like a means of pressure to tie the hands of our allies or at least to carry out tests to that effect. And the answer to this can only be the unity of the West, the second being based on its own principles and the third is the foreign and security policy activity of the European Union, in order not to be a passive observer but to be active in the processes. I am pleased that the new Commission has called the European Union such a geopolitical community. The new Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, the High Representative of the European Union, Mr Josep Borrell, has also considered a more active role to be important, and I very much welcome it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U78	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U79	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to congratulate you: you were able to highlight in your presentation a series of efforts made by the Ministry to develop foreign trade. This is a well-known area where every country is out for itself. But I am asking the Arctic Council about seeking observer status. When we became a provisional member of the United Nations Security Council, it was quite upbuilding for everyone to follow this campaign through the media. But what is Estonia's main ambition in the Arctic Council? Is the aim of acquiring diplomatic experience, or is it an economic, scientific or security ambition? Maybe you can open up this subject a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U80	Thank you. It turned out to be a business diplomacy. And thank you also for the sympathetic statement that was made here on one of the previous issues concerning the network of honorary consuls. We have also approved a new strategy for the work of the honorary consuls. Certainly, the role of honorary consuls is to provide consular assistance in countries where we do not have diplomatic representation, but the main focus should actually be on cultural diplomacy, people-to-people relations. And I am also thinking of realising the economic diplomatic interests. We have set out to appoint an additional half a hundred honorary consuls from a two-year perspective. If anyone in this Chamber has good advice on the appointment of honorary consuls, do not be ashamed, do not hold them down! Now the second question, which concerns a serious issue, i.e. the role of observer in the Arctic Council. The government took a fundamental attitude toward it with sympathy. It's actually a very long beard story. I see Mr. Ossinovski, who wears a proud beard, laughs. The question is that the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu in its own time took a positive stance in the transport of Marko Mihkelson very seriously. It was analysed and also welcomed by Urmas Paet as Minister of Foreign Affairs. Marina Kaljurand, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, took a negative attitude. I understand that this was due not to foreign policy considerations, but rather to the consideration of allocating economic resources. We have formed one working group, Marko Mihkelson and Urmas Paet, as chairman of the Parliamentary Group of Friends of the Arctic Parliament in the European Parliament, are also involved. It is certainly in our foreign policy interest to look for regional and wider cooperation platforms, where we can develop dialogue with our important allies. And not only with our immediate, security or national interests in mind. It's worth to us in itself. Certainly, the Arctic Council, composed of Nordic countries, full members of the United States and the Russian Federation and other countries, offers interesting opportunities. Even with the most serious opposition between the West and, for example, the Russian Federation, the Arctic Council has continued its activities on the regional platform. The second issue is that, in the Arctic dimension, we will certainly be able to develop our knowledge in this area and also stand up for the rights of indigenous peoples in the region. Mr Kaalep pointed out before the Finno-Ugric peoples, and the indigenous peoples of this region must also be protected. And certainly the Arctic is very important as a patch of growing geostrategic contradictions. Our interest, but also the interest of the European Union as a whole, is certainly to continue developing the European Union's Arctic strategy. The Arctic must not become an area of military confrontation. And, of course, the Arctic perspective, which relates to navigability in the region, is important in the area of transport. This cannot be denied if we are talking about a ten or twenty-year perspective, a very long vision. Perhaps it is a question of whether there would be a membership fee for the country in the Arctic Council. The preliminary analysis shows that we need to participate in the various working groups and that there may be potential costs in this regard, but it is clear that the need to participate in these working groups will be decided on the basis of working procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U81	Urve Tiidus, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I come once again to the issue of the Special Envoy for Education. Education is known to be a two-way road, if it can be eloquently expressed in this way. Despite the fact that we want to market ourselves, and indeed there is a reason for this, there has been information that there is a need to limit the licenses of international schools, the presence of foreign students in Estonian higher education institutions. How do you think these two things work out? And one more question about your identity. Politicians also have personal ambitions in every profession. As Foreign Minister, what do you consider most important to do in Estonia? I hope the question didn't get too long.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U83	Thank you. Well, it wasn't my retirement call that you asked me what else I had to do. Urve, I say that, when it comes to such exciting initiatives, such self-confident initiatives, not arrogant, but just self-confident, bold initiatives, as the foreign policy agenda of this government is, it is quite a pleasure to work. Devotion diplomats, a strong government team, I think that very exciting, very exciting initiatives lie ahead of us together, and we will do them and make Estonia bigger, make Estonia more influential, make the world a better place, I say maybe a little too pathosically, where people have a better place to live. As far as schools are concerned, the issue of educational migration is what we call it, the state must have control over the processes. The state must clearly define what is in its interest and what is not in its interest. In the debate on education policy, it is said that the state must certainly guarantee the quality of education. We have actually been facing this issue for 10 to 20 years. We know that curricula will be discussed, whether they meet the requirements. It is also important that the level of education of young people from third countries is appropriate to achieve higher education. This isn't a newsmom, and there's no way to idealize it here. Surely the state must bring clarity to the house, define its own interests. In fact, all young people who meet the requirements are welcome here, I emphasise, more than ten times. The task of our Special Envoy for Education is, of course, to introduce our educational experiences in other countries. And, of course, in those areas where we wish to develop Estonian education exports, young talented people are welcome. They're getting an IT education here, so why don't they get a family here? What's wrong with that? But, of course, Estonia also has to pay for this education. There are, in fact, a number of fundamental ideological issues, which are not linked in any way to foreign policy, but precisely to the priorities of education. Firstly, what is the objective of our higher education exports? This, in fact, as I have been told, I have also spoken to the rectors about it, it is not quite clearly in place. Since we have certain areas where there is a high demand for labour, such as IT, is the ultimate goal that we want these young people to associate their lives with Estonia in the future? Or is our goal simply an education business: a person acquires a diploma, puts a diploma in his pocket and goes back to his country or elsewhere in Estonia? If we have this second objective, then, for me, the entirely legitimate question arises as to why we give higher education without money to third-country nationals and not to citizens of the European Union in very many cases. What's the justification anyway? Can we warm the whole world up, "cultivate it"? However, there are a number of projects that we do separately. We have a separate programme within the Eastern Partnership so that young people come here to study. We want to support the development of certain countries. Such young people, for example, study at a school of diplomats. Rather, it is a piece of work in itself, where it is a clearly defined political interest of the country. I think these questions are entirely legitimate and there is nothing to be afraid of. We want to be part of the international community, the international economic, education and research area. Young people come here to study, Estonian young people go abroad to study, come back and teach us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U84	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U85	Thank you. The answer to your question is that making Estonia big is this goal. But I'm gonna ask another neighborhood, please don't get caught up! In the national interest of Estonia, it is certainly a more liberal democratic world. I hope that you will not go along with the compromising rewording of liberal democracy, nor would you like to hear much talk about national interests. It's something that everyone always comes from, but the emphasis on which is actually cocky and doesn't help relationships. What is the situation of liberal democracy in recent times, and what are the tendencies and problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U86	Thank you. I don't want to go into a terminological trap now. Indeed, liberal democracy, liberalism, democracy, when we talk about the substance of these concepts, when we talk about human dignity, about the rule of law, about free elections, about the guarantee of human rights, about the market economy, then I must honestly say that I see, for example, in the area of human rights, a very serious pressure now, if we are looking at the perspective of the whole of humanity. Last week, when I formed an alliance on religious freedom, I heard some very bad numbers. The United States has provided information that 83% of the world's population, 83% of the world's people! just do not live free, can exercise their freedom of religion, but live in danger. The danger may be that in fear of repression, a person would give up his faith in public manifestation or even lose his life for that reason. This is very worrying, and it is not a dynamic that has deepened since, for example, the 19th or 16th centuries. This is the dynamics that we have just seen deepen over the last generation. Of course, these issues must be addressed, free elections must be conducted. We are accustomed to dealing with development according to progress logic: that, after the end of the Soviet Union, society will move according to progress logic. But no, we also see a very strong counter-pressure. And when we are talking about the Western space now, we are talking about the Atlantic way of life, in fact, the share of Atlantic life in the world must take this into account when we look at demographic, military and economic trends from a century perspective. If we are to pass on this Atlantic way of life to our grandchildren, we must work together. There is no alternative. But the very important things that actually speak to people in today's Europe are identity issues, value issues and ignore them, and no one has the right to disparage them. Every human right, every human request is that he gets this environment, these roots, the community values that have given him life and which he himself bears, to pass on to his offspring. It's so natural. And if these values are hit, then a very serious confrontation can occur. There can be no retreat in these matters, good Jürgen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U87	Thank you, Minister. 90 minutes to answer questions is full. Thank you very much, Minister. We will now listen to the presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Enn Eesmaa, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U88	Honourable listeners! They say years aren't brothers, especially when it's a leap year. One of them we're working on right now. Speaking today about Estonia's foreign policy, this statement must be accepted, adding that for the last few years our country has once again risen to a high orbit of foreign policy. In the second half of 2017, we gained a special impetus when the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union took place. Most of us felt that we did well in this respectful task, even though we had to start our first watch six months earlier than Britain. Today and for almost two more years, Estonia has a somewhat foreign-political highlight, which is, above all, rich in the opportunities to use. We are currently in charge of cooperation between the Baltic States, as well as the partnership processes between the Baltic States and the Nordic countries. This means both the Northern Baltic cooperation format, or NB 8 and the Baltic Government cooperation format, i.e. the Baltic Council of Ministers. In addition to the logical security field, the priorities of the Estonian Presidency include connectivity, including regional energy and transport projects and digital cooperation. Last week, the Prime Ministers of the Baltic States met in Tallinn, and one of the main topics was the problems and opportunities of Rail Baltic. Similar cooperation with its Baltic and Nordic counterparts is also developed by the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs. In May, there will be another meeting at NB 8 parliamentary level in Estonia. With our Baltic colleagues, we decided to activate the cooperation of the leaders of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the three countries. In a few weeks' time, we will meet in Zagreb, where there will be a meeting of the leaders of the European Union's foreign and defence committees, which will take place within the framework of the Croatian Presidency of the European Union. Today, international cooperation is no longer feasible without an analysis of environmental issues and climate change. Much remains to be done in the development of the Eastern Partnership. I have represented Estonia and the Riigikogu at several international meetings dedicated to the Eastern Partnership. I know how much people believe in us and expect Estonia's support and advice in promoting the lives of these countries. Everyone recognises Estonia's achievements and makes a logical conclusion: success should also be possible in those countries that are richer than natural resources and more popular. Maintaining and developing transatlantic relations is extremely important. The main objectives of the government's approved communication with the United States until 2022 were important. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has already begun preparing a visit to the United States and we hope to visit several important cities beyond the ocean for a working visit during the spring session. The Committee on Foreign Affairs supports the activity of Estonia in the three-sea initiative, one of its objectives being to enhance energy, transport and digital connections between Central and Eastern Europe and the Baltic States. The US is interested in this initiative, and clarification was also requested during the recent working visit of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to the Gulf States. On the basis of today's information from the representatives of 12 countries, the Three Sea Initiative Summit will take place in Tallinn in June. Estonia is planned to become a Member State of the investment fund for three marine initiatives. diplomats, politicians and the President of the Republic of Estonia have worked for this. Estonia now has ambitions and intentions. The Committee on Foreign Affairs supports Estonia's request for observer status in the Arctic Council and has already confirmed its representatives in this working group. Above all, however, our focus is on Estonia's two-year work in the UN Security Council with 14 countries, including four European Union Member States. The participation of small countries in the work of the Security Council is vital. There are many more small countries in the world than there are big ones. Before us, the Security Council belonged to the area of near Kuwait, now Estonia. Our representatives have a lot of work to do. Today, I am thinking Tuesday, the focus of New York is on extending the mandate of the Sudan Sanctions Committee. Let me remind you that Estonia is the leader of the Sudan Sanctions Committee. Today, there is also an extension of the mandate of the panel of experts in the Libyan Sanctions Committee. Estonia's work began immediately in the Security Council with discussions on critical issues. In the first few working days, our representatives had to deal with the unexpectedly tense situation in the Middle East, actually all over the world. Iran's missile strikes hit the Iraqi military bases of Ain-al Asad, Al-Baladi and Camp Taj, hosting US and coalition troops. Missiles were well targeted, but fortunately they did not lead to casualties, and some conclusions could be drawn. Yet, nearly 20 people were injured. Estonian representatives had been removed from their base in time. During these critical hours, I felt with special clarity how important it was to develop a common foreign policy for the Estonian state and to maintain and defend the agreed positions. The Head of State, Kersti Kaljulaid, invited the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Minister, the Minister of Defence and the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu to discuss the intense situation that arose in order to exchange information that was added as an avalanche. We have drawn up common positions, which I consider to be extremely important. Unfortunately, that is not always the case. Perhaps both we and beyond are asked how many foreign policies Estonia has. There have been some top politicians who have weight and international sounding power to deviate from the common line. This has been noted both in the neighbourhood and in the wider European Union. Differences from Estonia are less noticeable. During the visit of the Committee on Foreign Affairs last week to the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait, there were many compliments on Estonia on several levels. Meetings took place in Parliament in both countries, and were also held with representatives of ministries and think tanks. We discussed President Trump's Middle East peace plan, among other topics, which was mostly criticised. We know that there is also a negative view of the Organisation for Islamic Cooperation and the Arab League. The most surprising had met us in Kuwait, outside the programme, the Iraqi veteran politician and the symbol of the country, the former Prime Minister and President of Iraq, with the dramatic fate of Iyad Allaw, the thought and proposal that we have been expressly told. According to Dr Allaw, Estonia, which has achieved political stability and much, should become a mediator of peace talks, without any interests in the region, but with enough capable diplomats and politicians. The United Nations Security Council is facing another two years of work. Not only are we aware of Sudan's issues, but we are also leading a working group to find solutions to the difficult situations in Iraq. Therefore, the role of the international peace broker should be considered seriously in Tallinn. On our visit to the Gulf States, we once again became convinced of the importance of ensuring and increasing Estonia's representation. Our embassy in Abu Dhabi will be opened in March by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. The embassy's rooms in the most representative skyscraper in the city centre are already operational, but they are smaller than the Latvian and Lithuanian representations we have reached. Jaan Reinhold, on the other hand, represents Estonia today in two countries of exceptional importance in the Arab League and Kuwait. It is not impossible for the embassy's grip to expand in the near future. It is good to know that the composition of the Estonian Abu Dhabi embassy will soon increase by an economic diplomat. Following the Expo World Exhibition, once we have identified the potential for further growth of our economic interests in the region, we could also revisit the need for the premises of our representation and the need for manning. The Committee on Foreign Affairs was thoroughly acquainted with the organisation of the World Exhibition and the work that has been carried out in the Estonian Pavilion, which is located close to ideal and surprisingly spacious. I remember how much controversy the idea of taking part in the Expo initially gave rise to. But was it different from running to the UN Security Council? Still, there are those who are more afraid of the opportunities that arise than are inspired by them. Today, almost all the countries of the world, 192 countries, have confirmed the exhibition of their pavilions at the World's Exhibition. It would be strange, in fact, but it would probably be a shame if Estonia weren't among them. We support the idea of starting preparations soon for the next World Exhibition, which will take place in Japan in a few years' time. The Foreign Affairs Committee fully approves the opening of Estonian embassies in South Korea and Singapore. We pointed to this need a few years ago after our visits to both countries by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is worth reminding here that the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs is actively involved in shaping Estonia's foreign policy and developing the principles of foreign communication, and that is of particular importance in controlling the foreign policy activities of the government. I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Ministry as a whole for its active cooperation. Colleagues from many countries have wondered how often Estonian foreign ministers and their colleagues in the Riigikogu's Committee on Foreign Affairs attend to explaining, often answering acute questions and receiving mandates for further action. Today and in the future, the Commission's work programme is dense and provides opportunities. I would like to take this opportunity to thank and congratulate the advisers of the Commission and the representatives of all the political groups that we have in the Commission, and many of whom are not just a fellow Member of the Riigikogu who is professionally involved in foreign policy for the first time, but an expert in depth in foreign and security matters. The meetings of the Commission are debate-rich because the coalition and opposition representatives work together. However, we recognise together that the sessions provide the necessary additional information both for us and for the guests of the Commission. The same situation and climate of work prevails in the Commission's preparation for the plenary debate on the 'Estonian foreign policy development plan 2030'. We unanimously decided to discuss this ambitious and all-time first such development plan in a hasty and thorough manner. So far, 11 issues of development have been addressed with numerous guest experts and, of course, representatives of foreign and other ministries. During our meetings, we have asked a lot of questions, but also the amendments and positions of the Members of the Commission, which are often critical. We consider it important that the development plan has a solid place in communication with foreign-Estonian communities. I am convinced on several occasions that this is necessary on labour trips to countries where many Estonians live. We have also asked for the opinion of the other committees of the Riigikogu, for which we are grateful. When we process the development plan, we are based on the fact that it is not just a one-size-fits-all document, but must be compatible with many thematic and country-specific strategies, to form a coherent whole. Discussion of the development plan in the Riigikogu is planned to take place already in March. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considers that similar thematic and national and regional strategies should be drawn up in a systematic manner in the future. For example, everything that is more generally related to Asia is ideally suited, not just to China. Our expertise needs to be improved, which even in China is felt on a daily basis. We therefore commend the willingness and willingness of Estonian higher education institutions to train foreign experts and to prepare diplomats. We dealt in depth with the Commission draft law amending the law on the External Action Service and, in connection with it, with the amendment of other laws 45, as well as with the amendment of the consular law and the related amendment of other laws 44. We are repeatedly convinced of the need for legislation in our working visits, but also in the hearing and negotiation of Commission meetings. The Commission's work mission last week gave convincing assurance that, despite the limited composition of our embassies, a few or three people are doing their work in a busy and professional manner. Within a short period of time, ambassadors and ministers can be organized and provided with additional materials and necessary contacts. People working in the External Action Service must be given more support, including in their career plans. With the procedure for amending the Foreign Service Act, we want to conclude before the end of the spring session. During our sessions, we often contact Estonian embassies abroad by video. We consider this to be extremely important in the case of urgent processes; it is important to have direct contact and to be able to raise questions and opinions. It is no wonder that in recent months we have paid particular attention to Brexit issues. Both with the help of Estonian embassy and dozens of other experts. The European Parliament, by an overwhelming majority, approved the United Kingdom's withdrawal agreement from the European Union. Today, just these minutes, the debate in the European Parliament will begin on the future of economic and transnational cooperation with Great Britain. Work is urgent, because the transition period will only last until the end of this year, and cooperation decisions that require serious negotiations will have to be adopted exceptionally. Negotiations on the European Union's long-term budget are ongoing in the European Union. In the view of most countries, Estonia too, an ambitious multiannual financial framework for the years 2021 to 2027 should be adopted. This would ensure consistency between key policy areas, such as regional and agricultural policy, but also foreign policy. Climate action, research, digitisation and support for young people must be promoted, both through employment and through Erasmus+ programmes, for example. I hope that the investment gap and migration and security measures after the financial and economic crisis will not be financed at the expense of other programmes. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will discuss the long-term budget with the leaders of other countries as early as next Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, Good listeners! This was a brief overview of the year-long work of the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U89	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Now you have the opportunity to ask questions to the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. First, we have an Ivari Padar registered here. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U90	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, this question was addressed rather to Mr Foreign Minister, but I was late. But since this issue concerns both presentations, I am still presenting it. We have described three marine initiatives and regional cooperation with our neighbours here, but for some reason the issue that has actually been one element of these reviews for years is the Baltic Sea Strategy. And yet, in today's case, the Baltic Sea Strategy works, there is cooperation, plans are in place. Why is it that the Baltic Sea Strategy, as one of these long-established cooperation projects, is not reflected in today's report?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U91	There are probably several reasons. One is definitely the length of the reports or rather the shortness of the reports. If the Foreign Minister's annual work has to be summed up in 20 minutes, then it's a good time to deal with the puzzle. Secondly, there have been no major problems with the implementation of the Baltic Sea Strategy. And what's to deny, isn't the initiative of the three seas the project that has a great significance this year. There is no need to be a special analyst to take into account and think that the Baltic Sea Strategy is also part of this initiative, which is very multifaceted, in terms of policy, environment and economic relations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U92	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U93	Good manager! Good waitress! In the meantime, it was a question of why to open an embassy in Singapore, but not Thailand. If you look at wealth, Singapore is more than 12 times wealthier than Thailand, nothing to do. My question, however, concerns why Estonia's representation in the tropics is so modest. Latin America is a very large region, but the Brazilian embassy was shut down. Urmas Paet opened, Kaljurand closed. I'm not going to talk about Africa, Egypt is not a tropic, India is. By the way, the happiest people live in Latin America. But my question is this: is it wise in Latin America to reopen its real representation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U94	I'll start with Singapore and Thailand. Indeed, as I mentioned in my presentation, the Committee on Foreign Affairs visited both Singapore and South Korea for several years. When we returned, we proposed that the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs consider opening the embassy in these countries, which we considered quite important. The idea behind all of this was, of course, that Singapore, for example, and also the South Korean Embassy, would not be the last. It is always worth planning the embassy for Thailand and opening it when new opportunities open up. As regards the priority of which embassy before, we remember how many years ago there were enough people who thought that Estonia needed to open an embassy, for example, in Bulgaria or Romania. That's the kind of question you're gonna have. But as far as remote regions are concerned, I am of the opinion that two years as a member of the UN Security Council is an excellent opportunity for Estonia to open and plan its activities in those regions where our representation has not been very large so far. I remember years ago going to Kenya with other members of the Riigikogu. One of the results of this trip was that we found a suitable person in our opinion, who could become an Estonian representative in Kenya, an "Aussian." And that person is working there until today, as far as I know. We, yeah, made a visit to the Gulf States. We had planned to go to Oman as part of this visit, but since the sultan there left for eternity, we agreed that we would plan this visit maybe later. My personal opinion, shared by a number of colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is to make a similar visit, we call it a door opening visit to one, two or even three African countries next year. This may also lead to these issues being resolved, but at least to point out what you mentioned, good Peter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U95	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U96	Thank you. Bernard Guetta, MEP, who is part of the Renew Europe Group, as you and I have said recently, said that Europe and Russia need a new model of relations, referring to the Helsinki agreements of 1975. Even in the most difficult situation, solutions and cooperation are possible. It is obvious that Estonia will also benefit from a world in which Russia and Western Europe can reasonably get along, where relations with Russia will not deteriorate, and where on this continent we would primarily rely on the need to improve our trade relations. Now, what steps could Estonia take to get this modus vivendi, this re-launch of relations and the agreement of new rules to take place this time at a conference with the name no longer in Helsinki, but in Tallinn, going a little south.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U97	All thoughts are always welcome. As far as communication with any other country is concerned, Estonia, including the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is certainly based on the fact that dialogue is always better than a monologue. However, certain preconditions are needed for dialogue. Whatever the conditions to agree on, politics and diplomacy are not likely to be conceivable or beneficial. In today's state, when we are talking about Russia, we have contact points on quite a number of levels. For example, both organisations, both countries, as well as IPU, or the International Interparliamentary Union, are represented in ENPA. We also have a pretty good relationship at the cultural level. Politically, yes, we currently have differences of opinion, partly because some Russian ideas about the consequences of the Second World War, the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, have become more black and white, and one that the Baltic countries, including Estonia, cannot agree with in any way. On this subject, we are discussing today in the Committee on Foreign Affairs a statement by the Riigikogu about history and counterfeiting of history, which is directly related to these issues. So we'd be happy to maintain our relationship and develop them. We know that the Estonian-Russian parliamentary group is preparing the visit of Russian colleagues to Estonia. It has been years since such a visit, though not too much. Contacts must certainly be maintained, if possible developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U98	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U99	Thank you. However, I hope that, for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the most important issue for relations with Russia is aggression towards its neighbours, occupation and influence, not foreign trade, as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has just said here. My question, however, is that you mentioned that I do not have, in front of the verbatim report, a statement taken by some politicians abroad, if I am not mistaken, or foreign policy speeches. Now all politicians are tagged, suspects. Could you specify what kind of position you had in mind, and it would be good if you would also specify which politicians you had in mind. Anyway, right now, everything's involved. And please don't be too general!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U100	We are all monitoring political life, including diplomatic development, our top politicians, I have just mentioned top politicians. Above all, it is always a point of view. For some, it was certainly quite a surprise for Estonia to join, for example, the coalition of religious freedom, which was not a problem for many. For me, the problem was some of the Minister's statements, which were very far from diplomacy and which concerned our very close country, Finland. I believe that these names and these issues are generally known to all of us. I do not quite agree with the submission of a list which, on the one hand, may not be complete at all. I would simply stress that such statements have not come from just one party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U101	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U102	Thank you. Good chairman of the sitting! Good waitress! First of all, thank you for this good review and for the speeches that have been made here, particularly as regards the Minister's review. So thank you so much for that. I would like to come to the Estonian-China relations once. If we look at things a year ago, then indeed, the economic relations between Estonia and China have been good and several Estonian companies have been able to develop their activities specifically in the direction of China. Now that I look at the picture in the recent Estonian media, we have become more cautious and perhaps even a little more critical in this regard. My question is this: is Estonia's foreign policy in the direction of economic relations with China changing in any way, and do you see any danger here or a sign of danger that specifically concerns economic relations with China?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U103	Economic relations with this major country are influenced by a number of factors. We have not seen any major problems in this direction in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but we know how closely some of the statements are being followed even in this large country, some of the tendencies that occur in some countries. I will give just one example: all the statements concerning Tibet have an immediate impact on our relations with China. We, as well as the Committee on Foreign Affairs, have very good working relations with the Chinese ambassador and Embassy in Tallinn. We have been to discuss with the ambassador, and the ambassador has been to me, as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, several times. I repeat, we have not noticed any problems in this direction, and even less so that Estonia's policy, economic policy, has changed towards this country. All the more so since China has risen vigorously to the absolute top of the world, with whom you would like to associate and, among other things, to develop economic relations, probably all the countries of the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U104	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U105	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! In your speech you indicated that Estonia has had a good opportunity to take the lead in many initiatives. And we also know that today's information society has created this situation where we are in the information war all the time. The voices required by democracy in Russia have also asked the known Kremlin propaganda to be added to the list of persons subject to sanctions. And my question is: would the Committee on Foreign Affairs set an example for other countries in Europe and raise this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U106	I would probably take too much decisive courage if I answered that question now. However, I promise that we will discuss this at the meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We have talked about Russia quite often there. And I repeat that, today, we are discussing a possible statement by the Riigikogu on Russia and statements that are somewhat different in terms of their foreign policy and history.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U107	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U108	Good Enn! Thank you for your presentation by the Commission. I would ask urgingly about a previous question by my colleague, Kaljulaid, relating to the role of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in talking about important changes in the direction of Estonian foreign policy. In the past six months, we can find a series of examples of how Foreign Minister Reinsalu has taken the initiative on various issues, even when moving Estonia to the Coalition for Freedom of Religion and some other issues that we have learned about afterwards and which have not been discussed in the Commission. Does it not seem to you that perhaps we could add to the context of our good political practice a similar behaviour as when we approve of Estonia's positions in the run-up to the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the European Union, thus giving very often, almost always, political consensus support to Estonia's positions? Does it not seem to you that our committee could also play a role in such matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U109	I totally agree with you. I think it's necessary. Perhaps a few examples in the near future indeed confirm that not all positions will be coordinated. But here, of course, I would like to emphasise that many of the issues are being discussed in the Committee on European Union Affairs, and some of our committee members are also part of this committee. As regards cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, in particular, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I really thanked them for this in my presentation. We've been in contact with the Foreign Minister on the phone a few times, and we've been through some things, really, not the topics you've been referring to. The less surprises in these processes, the better. So I certainly welcome this proposal. Once again, we are giving a mandate to the Minister, just as many ministers are being given a mandate in the Committee on European Union Affairs. Why not start this process a little earlier? All the more so because we are all relatively sophisticated politicians, we are already seeing which decisions and which prospects for development may be more critical in the near future. So I'm sure I'm okay with that, yeah. In fact, I would also like to reiterate that there are indeed representatives of all the political groups in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but ultimately there are exceptionally few cases where we cannot agree on our positions. We are discussing, explaining and, ultimately, this is a tradition for years, and we are always trying to reach common ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U110	Peter Rahnel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would also like to thank you for a meaningful presentation, as did the Foreign Minister. I would have liked to have asked the Foreign Minister a question, but that time has ended. And now I'm going to ask you. On 1 August, it will be 45 years since the final act of the Helsinki Conference was signed. The Final Act is an international non-binding agreement. In addition to European leaders and Soviet leader Brezhnev, it was signed by President Ford of the United States and Prime Minister Trudeau of Canada. By signing the Final Act, the aim was essentially to embodi the occupation of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania and the situation in Europe. Now, with regard to Estonia's election to the United Nations Security Council, tell us what the activities of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are in connection with this not very happy anniversary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U112	Yeah, well, it was at a time when there were two other German states. They joined. And this is also possible today if both parties agree to this process. If consent is not reached, then the Helsinki Final Act, which tried to lay down the limits that existed in Europe and in the world at that time, must no doubt. So one thing is contract and paper, the other is ultimately real life. During these years, we have achieved an extraordinary amount of Estonia as a Member State of the United Nations, the European Union and NATO. So this comparison with what once happened in Helsinki, when the President of Finland was still Urho Kaleva Kekkonen, is undoubtedly interesting, but, in historical terms, already part of the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U113	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As we know, our Head of State, Kersti Kaljulaid, visited the Russian President, Vladimir Putin. Here's the question. There were a lot of question marks in the air about this visit. Do you know for what purposes this visit took place and what are the so-called political consequences of this visit, given that the Republic of Estonia in turn invited the Russian Head of State to visit?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U115	Of course, it would be best to ask the President of the Republic of Estonia himself about the objectives of the visit. As far as I know, and I have also spoken to Kersti Kaljulaid on this subject, it was above all a desire to develop dialogue between the two countries where possible. How much it's done, it's different. This has also led to some problems, not some problems, but, nevertheless, to our neighbouring countries, I am thinking, above all, of Latvia and Lithuania. President Kaljulaid has said that, in the event of an invitation to visit a victory parade which is very important for Russia on 9 May, he certainly wants to consult both his Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues, probably also the President of Finland. So this kind of solo, I don't want to use it in a bad way. As regards the invitation of Putin to Estonia, it is actually a global congress of Finno-Ugric peoples and there are quite a number of Finno-Ugric peoples living in Russia. Some of them are small and are generally known to us. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has also regularly monitored their situation and discussed how they could be helped. Moscow has not responded to this invitation. I know from experience that both the President of Finland and the President of Hungary are coming to Congress in Tartu. If Vladimir Putin comes, some believe that this may be an opportunity to ease or develop the situation of Finno-Ugric peoples in today's Russia, but some tend to think that if the President is present, he will not be able or encouraged to speak freely. When I asked the same question in the sitting where we discussed these problems, I received a unanimous response that, if Putin did come, there would certainly be no such fear for the representatives of these peoples. But let's not get ahead of ourselves. Indeed, this invitation has been made, but no reply has been received. No invitation was received by 9 May. In the nearby countries, many Heads of State have already said what they are going to do or not to do. In the case of our President, the time to decide is probably yet to come. Many of Estonia's political figures, including ministers and political parties, have advised the President, which he will certainly take into account, but in the end this decision will still be left to the Head of State.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U116	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the negotiations, we must have a vote. In particular, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has proposed to extend the agenda for today's sitting until it is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. According to the Home and Working Procedures Act, we must vote on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the Committee on Foreign Affairs' proposal to extend the sitting until this item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, no respondents and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Let's move on to the round of negotiations. On the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the representatives of the political groups will first receive the floor. I would like to ask Mr Mihkelson to speak on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U117	Ladies and gentlemen, The turbulence in world politics and the multitude of diverse challenges in the decade that has begun place Estonia in a very difficult international environment. This requires a wise and politically united diplomacy, which, especially in recent months, has come under severe pressure from internal political events. Yuval Noah Harari, one of today's best known visionaries, author of the history and future of mankind, considers nuclear war, environmental disaster, and technological collapse to be the greatest global threats of our century. All these apocalyptic destruction challenges can only be managed through international cooperation based on shared responsibility and rules and standards in an ideal world. A world order based on rules based on international law is the greatest security guarantee for Estonia and small countries like us. As a member of the United Nations Security Council, we will have the opportunity in the coming two years to do our best to smooth out the gaps that have arisen in the world order and to prevent conflicts that threaten us. To do this, we must feel well the megatrends and extend our diplomatic capabilities beyond the comfort zone. Trends in short. The Corona virus, of course, will not stop China and, more generally, all of Asia's growth in power and influence in the world. Large relationships are already being defined from Beijing's point of view, and this trend will only deepen in the coming decade. We here in Estonia and our allies in Europe must be ready for the United States to focus more and more on China. This, in turn, requires the European Union's foreign, security and defence policy to be shaped in such a way as to enable the component of military deterrence to be projected aside from the traditional soft force, which should, in turn, be an integrated part of NATO. Only in this way can Europe's true strategic autonomy be achieved. According to Pew's latest public opinion poll, however, Europeans still see only the United States as the most secure guarantor of their security. Although the general attitude of our allies' population towards NATO is positive, in the event of Russia's attack on some NATO Member States, only a quarter of Italians and Greeks, 34% Germans and 41% French people see that their country should go militaryly to the aid of their attacked allies. These figures could be much higher, as it is with public support that the determination of national decision-makers to implement Article 5 is also based on the need to do so. Britain's departure from the European Union cannot in any way be seen as a strengthening step in the Western Allied Space. The real consequences of Brexit will not occur until years later. However, there is already a certain imbalance in the European Union. The European Commission has adopted climate issues as its flag letter, but the promotion of a common foreign and security policy is hampered, on the one hand, by increasing internal German policy and, on the other hand, by France's ambition to redesign the entire European security architecture. At the same time, the current administration of the United States, following the removal procedures, is focusing on a new electoral campaign that does not make it easier to reanimate transatlantic relations in a way that could become a viable balancing force for China and Russia's ambitions as a single trade space. The confused moods in the Western world have in turn encouraged Russia to strengthen its rematching foreign policy aimed at achieving a review of the results of the 20th century's largest geopolitical disaster, the collapse of the Soviet Union. Twisting the history of World War II serves, among other things, that purpose. Estonia and the other Baltic countries are the targets of a hybrid attack here. This forces us to be extremely vigilant and calls for a consensual foreign policy that has always succeeded us across the borders of the coalition and opposition to ensure national interests. I'll take three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U118	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U119	Unfortunately, right now we have reached a situation in Estonia where the parties to the government lack such a necessary common role in our foreign policy. Our foreign policy has never been so broken, and if it's not a threat to our security, then what is it? Games with an internal political taste of the government's parties make it increasingly difficult to find a reasonable commonality. If we are not able to overcome internal differences in the near future, we will also find it more difficult to pursue a coherent policy in the European Union, in transatlantic or regional relations. Keir Giles, one of the best Russian knowers in the current Western world, writes in his newly published book "Moscow Rules," that Estonia and the other Baltic States are the most dangerous in securing stable and lasting security in the countries' own societies. The foundation must be maintained strong and resilient in the seismic region. If they are prepared to contribute themselves, and if society is sustainable and agrees with the value of the allies, then together it will create a deterrent, which will also speak of the most aggressive nuclear power. Instead, we have reached a situation where the already fragile state of the Estonian soul has been shaken. In the era of social media without borders, fragmentation of open societies is inevitable; unfortunately, it is also happening in Estonia. In turn, the fragmentation of society and the lack of common authority create uncertainty about its identity. It is not surprising, then, that the forces that use the idea of national statehood only in their own narrow power interests will promote solutions to the road that has been suppressed and intimidate prejudices against the most alien or remote. Let us not forget that nationalism is not hatred of strangers and strangers, but love of our countrymen and of our country. However, in a community of soothing spirit, contributing to fear is a particularly powerful and tempting weapon. It can do a great deal of damage because people who have gone through long-term struggles of foreign power may not find sufficient flexible means to defend themselves and to influence their collective self positively. Figuratively speaking, for a long time as a nation, we have been forced to breathe on the surface, and our collective mandel core is therefore in a constant state of stress, creating a combat-or-escape-reaction. The responsibility for this state of tension rests with the political leaders. 'Answer or die' is a postulate known in politics, but behaviour that deliberately stimulates hate speech and troll is particularly irresponsible in a society where security depends on its coherence and its consensual foreign policy built on it. The attacks against liberal democracy are felt by authoritarian forces, but they also come from within democracies themselves. Robert Kagan, the most well - known contemporary thinkers in the United States, recently wrote an excellent analysis of this. It stresses that the protection of the fundamental rights of citizens guaranteed by liberalism from the arbitrary rule of law is taken for granted. Kagan suggests that in countries where the experience of liberal democracy is short and where nationalism is linked to blood and land, the emergence of political forces based on the defence of traditions, culture and the community against the tyranny of individualism is indispensable. While the domestic policy of a small country overwhelms the continuity of foreign policy and blurs the international image of the country, it poses a threat to the security of the country as a geopolitically seismic area. At all times, Estonia needs smart, reliable and broad political support for diplomacy, because we simply need allies and a good dose of foresight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U120	Thank you. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, please, Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski. An extra three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U121	Honourable Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As a rule, ordinary citizens often think and discuss internal politics, and foreign policy is somewhat backwards in the hearts and minds of the Estonian people. At this point, I call on people to pay greater attention to what is happening in the world. You're asking why. But because foreign policy has a major impact on our lives, even if we do not notice it on a daily basis. The Estonian foreign policy development plan has the following lines: 'The task of Estonian foreign policy is to ensure the security and well-being of the state and its citizens and to protect the interests of international relations. Through foreign policy, we promote Estonia's security and economic interests, increase Estonia's reputation and reputation, including as a business and investment destination, introduce and develop Estonian culture, create better opportunities for education and research cooperation, contribute to global security and sustainable development through development cooperation and humanitarian aid and external missions. ' This means that a successful and well-thought out foreign policy wins not only an abstract state, but every Estonian citizen. Each of us should benefit so much that when we travel around the world, we can proudly say: 'I am from Estonia. 'And there's a reaction from a conversational partner in the style 'Yes, I heard about your successful e-governance' or something. It's so nice to be part of your country's success story. It is obvious that foreign policy is primarily made at a cutting-edge level. Our President, Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs and members of the European Parliament and the Riigikogu are primarily responsible for shaping this. They're visible and familiar in the public, always in the picture. They can be accepted or argued, even through social media. At the same time, people who take care of Estonia's foreign policy course on a daily basis should not be forgotten, but who do not figure in the press on a daily basis. These are Estonian diplomats and ambassadors who reside in countries with which we have established diplomatic relations. They too make an important contribution to ensuring that the interests of our country are taken into account internationally, so that economic relations develop and Estonians living abroad, citizens do not forget their homeland. I want to acknowledge and thank those people who carry such a complex and responsible mission, keeping our country's international reputation. Estonia is a small country, but nevertheless we have been able to stand out in the international arena and to prove ourselves as certain partners in relation to different issues. In the European Union, we will be listened to carefully when it comes to the following issues: EU-Russia policy, Eastern Partnership policy, defence cooperation and the development and security of digital services. It is certainly not possible to be familiar with nuances in all areas, but the strong feature of Estonian diplomats and top officials is that they are prepared to delve into other areas that are important for the European Union and, if possible, to participate in these issues. At international level, it can be assessed. External communication means daily challenges for diplomats. Situations rarely recur, but it is nevertheless necessary to maintain regularity, objectivity, continuity and, above all, the understanding of the peasant. There is no consensus on many issues in today's world in the gaze of relationships, interests. At this point, I call on politicians and opinion leaders at least to try to act diplomatically and to bear in mind that impressions can negatively affect and even damage our foreign policy image. One such topic, which fuels passion in our society, is relations between the European Union and Russia. Regrettably, a situation has arisen when dealing with the subject always leads to a lot of emotion and labelling. On the one hand, the passionate treatment of the subject allows attention to be drawn to it, on the other hand, it tends to be forgotten that Russia's official power and civil society are two different things that can and even need to be treated differently. Mutual relations in the fields of culture, education and tourism must be developed consistently with the neighbours. This is even when tensions and contradictions have not yet been eliminated. At this point, I would also like to mention that Estonia has achieved good results by working in various international organisations. The members of the Riigikogu have excelled in the work of several parliamentary assemblies. As head of the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I would like to highlight good cooperation with colleagues from the United Kingdom, Sweden, Denmark, Latvia, Lithuania, Ukraine and Georgia. Our ambassadors are active in the various committees and political associations. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to remember that we are living in a rapidly changing world, which unfortunately does not offer simple solutions to difficult problems. Security challenges, the migration crisis, cyber security problems, ideological and economic wars all this makes foreign policy even more important. We must keep and value our partner, while courageously and consistently standing up for the interests of our country and our people. I wish all of us the strength and wisdom to carry out these tasks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U122	Thank you. On behalf of the EKRE Group, please, Reuben Kaalep! Yes, please, Raimond Kaljulaid, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U123	Yes, it is! I have here, in particular, a mandate which empowers me to speak on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Consequently, I have a question as to whether I can take the floor, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U124	That's the authority you should have submitted here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U125	I'd be happy to get it for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U126	I'd love to get it, but you're going in the general order, to get the waitress from the Isamaa Group. Now there's a presentation from Reuben Kaalep.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U127	Honourable Chairman! Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Estonia's independent foreign policy must be based solely on the national interests of Estonians. Today, in 2020, it will no longer be acceptable to see Estonia's past and future as an inevitable drift between the West and the East without the real possibility of determining its destiny in the long term. The former foreign policy, which is primarily based on the strategic and economic interests of the European Union, Western countries and large corporations, is changing and must change. Estonia is on its way to re-establishing a sovereign nation state in both domestic and foreign policy. The biggest and most important threat to Estonia is Russia's immediate neighbourhood. After the 100th anniversary of the Tartu Peace Treaty, we must admit that only Estonia has remained true to the two countries. Russia not only identifies itself as a descendant of the Soviet Union, but also still occupys Estonia's Petserimaa and Ingeri and suppresses the self-determination efforts of our Finno-Ugric relatives. All these factors seriously violate the fundamental national interests of Estonians. Geopolitically, Russian imperialism is inevitably interested in expanding its sphere of influence as far west as possible. Estonia's strategic problem here is that there is no buffer zone separating us from Russia. Therefore, in order to enable Estonia's independent foreign policy, the first task is to find the conditions that would help to mitigate the threat from Russia and finally get rid of it. Allied relations with Western countries have been selected to mitigate the threat from Russia, but we are under pressure from several parts of the world. The price of allied relations must not be a step by step of cultural and world-view concessions. The three totalitarian ideologies that fought in World War II, the communism, national socialism and liberal democracy, are still dominated by the latter throughout the Western world. In the European Union, strong pressure continues to be exerted on nation states, with the aim of reducing the richness of national identity. We can cooperate pragmaticly with the countries of Western Europe, but we cannot have a common view of the world with governments whose legitimate and illegal migration-enhancing policies threaten the indigenous people with a minority in their homelands in the middle of this century. The national interests of Estonia coincide to a very large extent with all the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe freed from communism. It is this region that is most acutely aware of the imperialist threat posed by Russia, such as the occupation of Crimea and Petseri County, as well as the pressure from the European Union, for example, by the growing conflict between the Brussels authorities and, in particular, Poland and Hungary. It is therefore very important that Estonia's foreign policy favours the cooperation of Intermarium in the triangle between the Baltic Sea, the Black Sea and the Adriatic Sea. Prioritising the Eastern Partnership and gaining a leading role in the three marine initiatives are crucial steps in this direction. It is in this region that we can find world-views, not just pragmatic allies. Power in foreign policy is divided into hard and soft power, direct economic and military means and indirect influence. For a culturally-developed, highly intelligent small nation, the last of them is affordable. The soft power of Estonia can be understood as a call from Jakob Hurt, which has been transferred to geopolitics, to become great by spirit. At national level, Estonia has already developed the capacity of information operations in the direction of Russia, but it must be linked to a clear long-term strategy to achieve national interests. The real values that are in harmony with the primal sense of life of Estonians and from which we should base world politics on the stage, including in the UN Security Council, can only be the self-determination of nations, nationhood and ethnicity. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U128	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U129	We cannot in any way approve of the attempts by the imperialist great powers to suppress the indigenous peoples and to acquire their territory, whether Russia, Red China or some of our allies. Any Russian "patriotic policy" must be answered by supporting and encouraging the self-determination of Finno-Ugric peoples. Estonia must also not participate in military foreign missions that conflict with the principle of self-determination of peoples. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonian foreign policy becomes more national, independent and tribal. The foreign policy line established by the government must be accepted unconditionally and worked for by all officials and diplomats of the Estonian External Action Service, otherwise they will not fit into the External Action Service. It is not conceivable that the Estonian ambassadors, when expressing their own personal opinion at official meetings, ironise on some of the government departments or consider some of the others more appropriate. The government must react vigorously to such cases. The Estonian diplomatic corps must be able to remain dignified, representing Estonia and the people everywhere. Estonia's foreign policy vision must be based on the assumption that submission to imperialism or globalism is not inevitable. Together with our true allies, who share the same world view, history and geographical conditions with us, we can shape our destiny as an independent nation state. Good luck to all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U130	On behalf of the Fatherland Group, Mikhail Lotman, please! Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U131	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia's story is a success story, also in the field of foreign policy. Compared to a short period of time, Estonia has managed to train and appoint a competent official body. It also concerns the External Action Service and the diplomatic corps. Estonia's success is based on consistent and consistent foreign policy. Legal consistency is the cornerstone of Estonian politics, including foreign policy. Responsible foreign policy is based on international agreements, international law. Estonia is not only a customer in international organisations who expects services of some kind, but a full member of those who have expectations but also responsibilities. Estonia makes a dignified contribution to the work of the European Union as well as to NATO and now to the UN. Estonia is not a passive member of these organisations; it is a fully-fledged partner. Estonia has solid political objectives and orientations, also in the European Union, where Estonia opposes the trend of federalisation. The European Union, a strong European Union, is a union of states, but not a federation. The Federation's spokespersons and supporters are, by default, based on the fact that the European Union consists predominantly of two major powers, France and Germany, and the rest are their periphery. Small countries, Estonia among them, cannot agree with this approach under any circumstances. Estonian diplomacy has worked successfully in this direction, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned in his speech. Ladies and gentlemen! Estonia is a parliamentary democratic rule of law. Estonian foreign policy is shaped by the Riigikogu and implemented by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This means that Estonia cannot have several foreign policies. This means that no member of the Riigikogu or minister or anyone can perform on behalf of the Estonian state. If anyone, be it our colleague from the Riigikogu or the Chairman of the Riigikogu or even the President, is present with original bold statements, he must always state that this is his personal opinion. The word is free, we can all use it, but none of us can monopolise the right to speak on behalf of the state. Estonia's success story is remarkable. Let me remind you of not very old history. At the time of Perestroika, when the idea of Estonian self-management was popular, Trivimi dreamed in the concert hall of Velliste Estonia that why we had to talk about some sort of sovereignty, Estonia could also become a state, such as Bulgaria or Poland as a nation's democratic state. In my mind, I dreamed that, but why not, like Finland, neutral, out of the Russian sphere. What Estonia has been able to achieve in one generation is remarkable. We are a member of the UN Security Council, a full member of NATO, a member of the European Union. I find it strange that I do not say shame to listen to this weeping and wailing and to the reproach that is being made for the Estonian state and its foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U132	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Raimond Kaljulaid, please! You'll have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U133	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Urmas Reinsalu, and the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Enn Front, for their presentations. I unequivocally join the Foreign Minister and many other previous speakers in the fact that the security of Estonia and our allies is and will remain a priority in Estonia's foreign policy. There is no doubt that this time is dangerous and difficult, and sometimes it seems that this delicate balance between war and peace only sustains a hair of common sense. All the more so, it is vital for us to maintain the unity and willingness of the countries sharing the same value area with us. We must make every effort to ensure that international relations are based on agreed rules, international law. What increases uncertainty and uncertainty in foreign policy? The Cold War was followed by a hopeful decade in the West, which, looking back, ended sharply and violently on 11 September 2001 with an attack on the World Trade Center's twin towers in the United States. The subsequent war in Iraq has tested, to a very significant extent, inter alia, Western unity and transatlantic relations. This millennium, the hot war also reached Europe, first Georgia and then Ukraine. The migratory pressure on Europe has increased; it has significantly tested the unity, solidarity between European countries. Controversies within Europe, between the north and the south and between the east and the west, have deepened. The European Union has unfortunately lost one economically and militaryly important Member State, the United Kingdom. At the same time, the activity and influence of Asian countries, as well as Russia, is increasing in international relations. Our task in this situation is to stand up for the unity of our allies, maintaining faith and confidence in our common values. Our task is to be a constructive, active and innovative cooperation partner. We must maintain and ensure the role of the spokesperson in digital and cyber defence matters, which is clearly our strength. Complicated times would be much easier to survive if Estonia were united internally. But it is fair to admit that we are not. We must realise that the less we base our values on internal politics, the more difficult it is to conduct a value-based foreign policy. I do not exclude at all that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister have done their best to ensure the unity and unambiguousness of the foreign policy of the Republic of Estonia, but in the end of 2019 it must be said that this task has not been satisfactorily managed. The decision of the Centre Party and the Fatherland to involve extreme right-wing populists was a huge blow to the national interests of Estonia, and especially to our foreign policy interests. Not all the beautiful words that sounded today compensate for the damage that has been done. Too often, the good name and reputation of Estonia have been damaged by the acts and statements of one of the government departments. The heads of government of our important allies have been offended, NATO's defence cooperation has been questioned, and the European Union has been equated with the Soviet Union that occupied Estonia. Very questionable choices have been made regarding the composition and management of the Riigikogu delegations. The negative flow of information in foreign media resulting from the inclusion of right-wing populists in government and their activities has affected Estonia's reputation. The study "The impact and image of Estonian foreign policy in the European Union" carried out at the Estonian Institute of Foreign Policy indicated this. I don't think we're feeling all the damage these decisions have done yet. We also know what has led to the UK's decision to leave the European Union, inspired by the populists. Sooner or later, this will also be demanded in Estonia. Pay attention! Worst of all, it seems to me that populism is sometimes contagious. This weekend, I was surprised to read our Foreign Minister's statement regarding a traffic ticket that was issued. I would have expected that there would be enough issues on the desk of the Estonian Foreign Minister of the United Nations Security Council, starting with the Middle East peace plan proposed by an ally close to us by the United States and ending, why not, with such a complex issue as the security of the 5G communications networks. But no, the Secretary of State is handling traffic tickets. Hard to comment on. The Estonian Government must pull itself together, focus. Estonia's clear foreign policy must be ensured; we cannot have three or more foreign policies; there must be one foreign policy. The Centre Party and the Fatherland must also be able to explain this to their coalition partner. It is necessary to keep all parties involved in the design and implementation of external policies. I recall once again that the assessment of the Middle East peace plan was not discussed in advance by the Government and the Minister of Foreign Affairs with the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu. In order not to end with a negative note, I will come back once again to the speeches of the President of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and also the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Indeed, as we could see last week by visiting the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait with a delegation from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we are able and necessary to contribute much more to economic diplomacy, and I welcome the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs made it so clear in their speeches. It is positive that the government has allocated additional money to this, and I call for expenditure in this area to be increased significantly, in fact, even better. Exports, investments, tourism. These are extremely important to us. The proposal of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry to consolidate economic diplomacy activities under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must also be seriously analysed. There is no good reason why economic diplomats working essentially for the same objectives and external representatives of EAS should be subject to different headquarters. Finally, I would like to give full recognition to the Estonian diplomats and to the people working in our foreign service. We know, notice and appreciate the work they do, whether on Iceland Square or far from home. None of us underestimates how much they have had to learn and work to represent the interests of the Estonian state effectively and professionally. This job is not easy and will never be easy. The state must recognise and notice these people. I wish and hope that we will do more this year. I join here what Marina Kaljurand writes in today's Postimees: governments come and go, Estonia is eternal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U134	Thank you. Oudekki Loone, please! You'll have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U135	Ladies and gentlemen, In December, the WTO Board of Appeal actually stopped working because the US is blocking the appointment of new judges. The disbanding of the World Trade Organisation was, of course, one of Donald Trump's election promises, and it seems to be fulfilling it quite effectively. At the same time, the trade war with China is intensifying, the abbreviation TTIP probably no one remembers. Like it or not, Donald Trump changed the world radically and recklessly. This old dead idealistic world will never come back. Just as a hundred years ago after World War I had to admit that the old idealistic, elitist world, where the economy was made in only the same way and the will of the nations was not important, would never return. Today, we must adapt to this new world as quickly as possible, not as offended aristocrats, weeping for the previous best and swearing allegiance to the old kingship. Otherwise there will be a new and worse crisis, as we know from history, and we will be caught in the cogs again. Many of these changes were, of course, already bubbling in the past, as a result of the internationalisation of the system created for the purpose of never repeating World War II in order to impose neoliberal ideology. It was hidden behind all sorts of interesting words, such as 'value-based policies', 'free trade principles', 'The European Union demands', 'war for democracy'. In fact, however, it was nothing other than another crusade that imposed the right picture of the world and made the establishment of its values an external political goal. And just as the Crusades once did, the introduction of liberal hegemony today will only lead to chaos. Look at Syria, Libya, Donbass, Crimea, as well as Venezuela. Or let's take a closer look: the European Union, on which Germany has been imposing an ordo-liberal economic policy, where even in the recession, the policy 'I will stick even more together' is being paraphrased by the paraphrasing of Orwell. Take a look at the discussions that have been held on the Italian budget. Nothing has changed since the European Union waged a crusade against Greece in difficulty. Or, for example, let's look at immigration. The freedom to move has become the freedom of businesses to acquire slave labour from grotesques in neoliberalism. What is its economic outcome in the European Union? See Ken Loach's latest movie, this is the result of our economic policy. The situation of small countries is, of course, very poor in the foreign policy of the ideology objectives. Ideologies can only be introduced by a few large ones, so only a few large ones are politically free. Others, however, are forced into hypocrisy for their own interests. For example, Estonia has been reacting to every fall of a pen in Russia for several decades, but if the United States contributes to the atrocities of the Saudis in Yemen, they will be quiet and hilled. The attack on Iraqi soil, which ignores any international law, is even praised. Today, however, we have the opportunity to give up this kind of cornering, one-dimensionality. What's more, it's essential. International relations are once again openly realistic. I recall the old observation that all countries are actually acting the same: on the basis of their own interests and security. Small countries are very needed in this world, because only small countries can act as mediators. In this world, Estonia's only foreign policy output is not to join and listen to all international organisations. In this world we actually have choices, in this world we can make independent policies. And what could it be? If we look at the recent events in the world, not from an idealistic point of view of good and evil, democracy and autocracy, but from the point of view of people's real needs and security, we can see that political change in Austria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Italy and Greece, without speaking of Trump itself, has economic reasons. It is in the external economy that the source and solution of these crises is exactly as the world understood after World War II, but which was forgotten in the nineties of the last century until the crisis of 2008. Europe's problem today is Germany's maritime trade policy, where foreign policy power is measured by the surplus of exports, and the euro, the single European currency, which supports this policy today. For years, Germany has been in surplus on its current account, crossing the 6% agreed EU border. The German export surplus is constantly breaking record. And all this has been achieved at the cost of a German worker whose wage growth is one of Europe's most conservative. Germany needs citizens of other countries to buy its products. However, since the euro basically means planning the price of money, we do not have automatic market mechanisms to improve this balance of exports and imports a little. And that is how we need to create stability mechanisms in the euro area every once in a while, make bail-outs. And what is required? Casino. Drop your pensions, give up your medical care, give up your social protection, but don't give up buying German goods. It is not a question of authoritarian democracy; it is a question of bread and butter. The US external economy has followed the opposite principle. Since the 1960s or so, free trade in the US meant exporting goods and importing US T-bonds. This system also favours capital holders but does not favour employees. No wonder the world-wide income gap is only increasing and the situation of people mainly living in their labour force is only deteriorating. These are the people who chose Trump because Trump promised to disband the World Trade Organisation and renegotiate the trade rules. And that's where we are today. We have no choice but to reform the WTO, to rethink the fundamentals of foreign trade. Estonia can take its place here as a negotiator, as a mediator, so that we can create a new Bretton Woods system, which is thinking about the welfare of today's people. We can take the first steps for a world in which fair and harmonious trade prevails, not the mercantilism of trade and finance, not the model of the US and Germany to date. A fair trade policy means that the principle of export balance is mutually respected by the major countries. Basically, everyone has to stick to it in general, but there are some exceptions. Small countries may not achieve a complete balance in order to provide welfare for all of their people. Developing countries may need large technological imports in order to make real progress at all. Our new system must be flexible enough to take account of these exceptions. If, in the name of austerity and austerity, we raise real human well-being to the pedestal around the world today, abandon the race to establish the right values around the world and agree on new rules for the economy and finance, then the 21st century, as much as there is left, will be a richer and more peaceful time than has ever been in human history. In a rich and peaceful world, Estonia is also rich and peaceful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U136	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U137	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I recall once again the preamble to the Constitution, according to which the ultimate goal of our country is to ensure the preservation of the Estonian nation and culture throughout the ages. The reason why I recall this in the foreign policy debate is, in fact, that there is a question of how this goal can be achieved in a globalised world, where the locusts in Africa are doing the most terrible destruction of the last 70 years. But not only do the locusts move, people move, people have moved through the ages for hunger, thirst and war. But they're moving more and more. How can we achieve this goal in a situation where climate neutrality and gender neutrality, to say the least, have become increasingly bold keywords? This idea is absurd, although the aim itself is noble that on one continent, Europe, we are trying to achieve climate neutrality. The climate doesn't ask about borders, it's global, it sweeps across borders, across continents. But there is also Africa, Asia, America, and they do not set themselves the goal of becoming a climate-neutral continent. To date, migratory pressures have eased for a moment. The new leader of the European Commission, von Leyen, speaks and has declared that the fight for climate neutrality is our sacred goal, a holy war, so that the end of the world will not come in 2050. But little of that, von Leyen has also said that a new migration agreement needs to be developed, the Dublin principles reviewed, and then the quotas and how to tame the reluctant. But we come back to the Preamble of the Constitution, to the very purpose for which the Estonian state was created and which foreign policy must serve: to ensure the preservation of the nation and culture through the ages. But today, they're driving past Tallinn, and not just, dark-skinned food couriers. Mustamäe has been justifying its name for a long time. The number of foreign students has increased sharply. 2012 was only 3% of the student population, but in 2018 it was 13%. Professor Ehala has spoken very harshly, even here. He has said that the loss of higher education in Estonian is only a matter of time. The retreat of the Estonian language in higher education is unnoticed; it is a silent surrender in a sovereign country whose foreign policy we are talking about now. According to Ehala, the red line of the Estonian language development plan is not allowed to become completely populated. There are study groups where there are no Estonian-language curricula etc. But why? In 2012, Jaak Aaviksoo was the Minister of Education at the time, a law on higher education was passed, with noble goals: that poorer boys and girls should receive free higher education and that those professionals who are actually in need of our economy should be produced. But as a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, I have heard the assessment of the National Audit Office and read the destructive report on this law. The actual results were the opposite. These specializations that the Estonian economy needs are not taught and poorer boys and girls still do not get to higher education at least more than before, but as a result, the number of foreign students has increased rapidly. This is it. What, then, will be done in this global world, where locusts and humans move and where the keywords are "zone-neutrality" and "climate-neutrality"? At one point, I am afraid, politicians will appear who will announce or propose that § 37 of the Constitution, which states that everyone has the right to receive instruction in Estonian, should for example be reworded or supplemented with the phrase 'if it does not undermine the competitiveness of the Estonian state in a globalised world'.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U138	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U139	Yes, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U140	It seems that the members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to speak, but the honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs will have the opportunity to speak. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U141	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the people! Thank you for all your thoughts. I'm gonna sign some thoughts, I'm gonna categorically reject some thoughts. The position that there is confusion in the Estonian foreign policy line is that I can assure these hesitants that there is no confusion. The confusion may, of course, be that the current government is not implementing the foreign policy of the Reform Party or the Social Democrats. Yes, this government is setting out a clear political line agreed by this government, and there is no question here. Marko Mihkelson's concern about the closure and the fact that someone is being pushed away from foreign political positions, but you know, I remember Marko Mihkelson's statement, which made it clear that Estonia's application to the Security Council did not make any sense. It was actually a foreign policy line. This government was consistently guided by earlier decisions. We brought it in and we can do it successfully, our diplomats have nothing to fear. The same question was raised during the previous government, when Marina Kaljurand actually proposed no to join the Arctic Council. It's a long discussion, but at the same time, we don't think it's important to bet on an interesting format of regular cooperation. Again, this government has taken a different position. Question 3: During Sven Mikser's appointment as Minister of Foreign Affairs, Estonia essentially said no to the offer concerning the organisation of a three-sea initiative summit in Tallinn. Why do such a thing? Exciting, interesting format, strengthening our ties with the United States. We turned it around, the clear attitude of this government union towards the importance of foreign policy and its commitment to foreign policy reflect the historic increase in operating costs of 20%. Now the question of concerns about what Mr Mihkelson pointed out: we must not divide society and create tensions in it. I will sign Marko's position with two hands, but this should have been borne in mind even when the migration agreement was pushed through in this Chamber. What was the attitude of the Estonian people? What really divided the people, was it that people were contradicted by what they thought, or that people were complaining about it, they didn't like it, they used their freedom of expression? However, the same question was also raised in the case of the Cohabitation Act. Leaving aside the issue of sexual reform was, in fact, the question of how much it caused tensions in society and hurt. We remember that intolerance in society increased considerably after the implementation of the Cohabitation Act. The question of Raimond Kaljulaiu's concerns as to why the Minister of Foreign Affairs is not working, but dealing with the issue of traffic penalties. I never shut up when the situation is unfair and it's too bad. In fact, human life was at stake. It was a question of the humane application of the law, and no one must remain silent here if it seems that it is being harmed. I admit there are different opinions, but my opinion on this injustice is clear and clear. Now, about the Ruuben Kaalep speech. There are many things I can agree with for Reuben's speech, many things I don't. The question of comparison with communism and Nazism and liberal democracy is rejected by me. Academically, everything can be discussed, but my view, my legal view, also my foreign policy view, is that we still have a lot to do in defining our historical truth and, in fact, the crimes of communism have not been equated with those of Nazism. We need to act together here, we need to look for allies. The International Museum of Communist Victims, which will be built in Tallinn Patarei Prison, if the government continues this project and will certainly continue it, is actually a very important element here. Now the question of what Mr Kaljulaid referred to is that we are working with Poland and Hungary and that this is something crazy, referring to the article by Ms Kaljuranna today. No, I do not agree with the approach expressed today by Marina Kaljurand in the Postimees. On the contrary, I found it sympathetic that in 2016, when Marina Kaljurand visited Hungary on a beautiful visit, the band played music, a comprehensive bilateral cooperation protocol was signed, which actually created a special relationship between Hungary and Estonia. I have to admit that it is unusual for me to have two European Union Member States signing a special relationship protocol, but Marina Kaljurand considered it important. It is possible that there was a mandate from the Committee on Foreign Affairs for this, and I was not aware of it at the time as Minister of Justice, but I was not ashamed of it today. In front of Marina Kaljuranna, she went to Hungary, the bands played, the business delegation was, the business forum was, cooperation and friendship were developed, so what's crazy about it? So, friends, we have one Estonia. We do not trade Estonian national interests. We're brave, we're confident, but not up. We are doing one thing, and believe me, these reproaches, whether internal policy has gone into foreign policy or vice versa, have been in the past, and they will probably come in the future, but the fact is that the central issues of foreign policy...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U142	Would the minister like an extra time? Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U143	...we're not trading anymore. This is the most important message. What Peeter Ernits said about the survival of Estonian language, nationality and culture as an important objective of foreign policy. I picked up a project we had prepared when I took office as Foreign Minister. I took the ballpoint pen and wrote it as part of our foreign policy objectives, and in March, when our 'External Policy Development Plan 2030' is under discussion, it has been formulated as a central palace. This is what diplomats and government officials have to work for to keep our nation state going. This is the most important task of foreign policy. Because, you see, the country is precious and sacred to us, but the country is actually a tool. The country is a means to keep our people going. Dear friends, let's work together! All good initiatives are always prepared to be taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to listen to them. Officials, diplomats and I of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are prepared to explain the foreign policy position of our country, firstly, and secondly, we are prepared to provide support with the strength and advice on how members of the Riigikogu can contribute. I would like to pay special tribute to the members of our foreign delegations, who have actually done a good job. It has been grumpy to see whether or not one person has been named, Oudek or Urmas, what kind of action is going on, everyone falling off in the offices. Nothing bad has happened, on the contrary, people have done well. Mrs Jufereva has worked nicely with Eerik Kross on a bench, others too. I say, the eye is resting, things are working out. So strength for all of us! Help us in heaven! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U144	Thank you. Since the name Ruuben Kaalepi was mentioned and he therefore wishes to receive a line, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U145	Thank you. I'll just make my point on the line. I call totalitarian all ideologies that consider themselves to be the right thing, and liberal democracy certainly is that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-11_U146	Thank you. There are no more requests to speak today. I will conclude negotiations and, as usual, the Riigikogu will not take a decision at the end of the debate. I thank all the waitresses, thank all the respondents. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 1.35 p.m.
