ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 8th working week. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U2	85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U3	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft Act 240 on the ratification and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the facilitation and mutual protection of investments initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. I ask Valdo Randpere, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U4	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Are you still listening to me? I can't hear you. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I thought for a second, maybe the microphones are too quiet. I'm in front of you again with a very good bill. The title of the draft is the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the facilitation of investments and the amendment and termination of the Agreement on Mutual Protection. I have the law's explanatory statement for second reading. The draft was launched on 14 September and the first reading took place on 14 October. The deadline for submitting amendments was 5.15 p.m. on 28 October and no amendments were received by that time. The commission made the following consensual decisions: At the meeting on 9 November, we decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading, including on 17 November, to approve the text of the draft and the explanatory memorandum for a second reading, and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote at second reading. A majority of votes in favour is required for the adoption of the draft as a law. If you don't have any questions, I think we can go to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U5	Thank you. Indeed, the members of the Riigikogu have no questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U7	Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 240 on the draft, and we will go to it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the facilitation of investments and the amendment and termination of the Agreement on Mutual Protection. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U8	90 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U9	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the second reading of the draft Act 218 on the ratification of the Treaty on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, You now have before you bill 218 at second reading. We finished our first reading here on October 14th, without complications. No one wanted to propose any amendments by the deadline for amendments, so the draft is before you again. I am simply saying, as background information, that since this is a draft ratification of the termination of bilateral investment agreements, Estonia has already completed bilateral investment protection agreements with the Czech Republic, Italy, Denmark and Poland. The rest concerns the bill before you. The Committee on Foreign Affairs must be preceded by a proposal to close the second reading and put to the final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U11	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U12	Thank you. We already have a second item here today on which we are talking about the conclusion of the agreement on investment facilitation and mutual protection. I understand these are formal contracts. But when you discussed these matters in the Commission, did you also mention that in real life, there has been a tendency in the last year that investment agreements with Estonia should be terminated? Could it be that this is the result of the current political situation? Did you discuss that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U13	Thank you, my good colleague. This is a very important issue. The Foreign Affairs Committee has discussed the situation of attracting foreign investment to Estonia and holding it in Estonia on several occasions. With regard to this draft, it must be said that it does not concern this concern or the problem of the fact that these are bilateral investment agreements, which are mostly concluded before one or another country's membership of the European Union, and are no longer necessary, because the transfer between us is governed by European law. This is certainly a very important issue. In general, however, it has to be said that Estonian entrepreneurs are doing very good work to invest outside themselves, and in Estonia very good work is being done to attract investments here. I believe that this is where Members can contribute.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U14	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U15	Thank you. Now I'm gonna help some of the Kalvi. This Swedish Treaty, which we have just voted on here, had to be amended first, too, because if we had not changed it, it would have been in place 20 years after graduation. Now we've changed him and finished. But the question for Keidu. You didn't mention the Swedish contract on your list. Why? Is it because you did not notice that we voted for it or because it has not yet entered into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U16	Thank you, good colleague Randpere. As a lawyer, you certainly know that the Treaty has not entered into force, so it would have been very difficult to call it here. Very sharp observation, I look forward to similar observations in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U17	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 218 on the draft. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on ratification of the agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U18	88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U19	Today's third item is the second reading of draft law 253 on the amendment of the State Pension Insurance Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like Mr Möldri, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 9 November, the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the preparation of the draft Act amending the State Pension Insurance Act for a second reading. Representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs were invited. No amendments to this draft were received from the political groups or members of the Riigikogu. However, the Ministry of Social Affairs has proposed amendments to this draft. Most of the changes have been made on the basis that when the pension age-modifying and flexible pension provisions were adopted in 2018, it was 613 SE, if anyone remembers the previous composition, then there were reference errors in the law. In particular, there are four important issues: the pension calculator, information on retirement age, calculation of the flexible retirement age, application of the increase-reduction multiplier and, in the case of persons receiving both Estonian and foreign pensions, clarification of the arrangements for taxation of pensions. These drafting amendments have now been voted on here as one amendment, a consensus decision by the Commission. The members of the Commission did not have any questions and the following was decided: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 17 November, i.e. today, and to propose that the second reading be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U21	Thank you, Honorable waitress. You have questions too. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U22	Thanks! Good Tõnis! I'm sure it's a good thing the pension goes up. Not a word against it, praise and honor. I understand that this is not so much the subject of this draft, but did you also discuss in committee this draft that the average pension could be tax-free? This would certainly give the person who receives an average pension more pension increases, because he still loses some of that money because of income tax. Did you discuss this point in the framework of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U23	Thank you. As regards the Commission's discussion between the first and second readings, we did not really address this issue there. But if I refresh my memory a little bit, I think that's the subject we touched on at first reading. Tanel Kiik, the Minister of Social Affairs of the Government of the Republic at the time, said that there were two options on the table of the Government of the Republic: raising the pension just as it has been done, about 20 euros on average for everyone, or still moving in the direction that the average pension would be exempt from tax. And indeed, the Government of the Republic has decided to increase pensions. In particular, this was justified by the fact that there are still a large number of people, about 60000, who receive a pension of less than EUR 500, and they still get the average increase of EUR 20 purely. So, above all, when calculating different options, it was decided to support the smallest pension beneficiaries, including those receiving national pensions. People's pensions will rise if my memory doesn't fool me, EUR 30 from 1 April next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U24	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U25	Good manager! Good waitress! Let's look at these suggestions for improvement, and maybe you can explain. It states (paragraphs 7 and 8) that in paragraph 24 (11) (11), the word "one' is replaced by "1,5'; in paragraph 24 (11) (2), the word "three' is replaced by "3,5'. Maybe you can tell me what these things are. We don't see that explanation in this explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U26	Thank you. As I said, I think what you are referring to is, of course, I might be wrong, because we did not discuss it so precisely and thoroughly in the Commission, although the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs gave us an overview of this matter, it should be the point that changes the reference to this place, which specifically concerns the flexible calculation of pensions and the implementation of an increasing-reducing multiplier. That should be the reference.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U27	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I would continue with this question, which was asked by Mr Tough, and on which you said that your committee did not address it. However, the Committee on Monetary Affairs dealt with the issue of income tax exemption for pensions. And then I heard, if I remember correctly now, the chairman of the committee may improve the way the chairman of the committee said that its introduction is behind the IT application, i.e. it is very difficult to carry out these programmes. I would like to remind you that the e-Tax Board was made 20 years ago and still works in the same good functionality. Is it correct that the introduction of income tax exemption is responsible for making IT applications? Does your committee still intend to deal with this matter in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U29	First of all, to clarify to the questioner: my argument was that we did not address this matter between the first reading and the second reading. However, we dealt with this at first reading and then really discussed it in the Commission. As I said, I brought up the political decision that was on the table of the government. Yes, indeed, there was also a concern or a 'negative' sign that IT engineering might not be able to implement it immediately from 1 April. It may take time to introduce such a change and demand additional resources, but I do not think that was the argument behind it. There were, however, very clearly two decisions at stake, and the government chose one of them. So the Committee on Social Affairs has been discussing this. And I am pleased that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has also discussed this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U30	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I think you were wrong to say that everyone gets 20 euros in retirement. Please specify how many people will get out of this! And if you referred to those who receive less than 500 pensions, you did not mention that if you had exempted or not taken out working pensioners, their pension increases would actually have been more than EUR 20.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U32	Thank you. Well, now we come to those discussions that were not really there in the Commission. I could simply say that the Commission did not discuss these issues, but I am still answering and trying to answer in substance. I still come to the point that I think it is important to congratulate this government on the exceptional increase in pensions for two years in a row. I think it's a pretty badge. You certainly have a much longer political status than I do, you also have the experience of the Government of the Republic's responsibility, so you know very well that there are various issues on the table in the budget negotiations and there have often been governments that have not increased their pensions exceptionally, but have only gone down the path of indexation. So I don't think there's any way to blame the Government of the Republic for the extraordinary increase in pension. I think they should be commended for that. And it is precisely because it is done consistently that should be commended.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U33	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U34	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! On one earlier question, I would point out that these coefficients 1 and 3, which are replaced by 1.5 and 3.5, are not a postponement of pensions, but rather an increase in the number of children or in the number of years that children receive. But I'm asking about the amendment of the securities register. The Social Insurance Institution has the right to receive information about both the amounts and the identity of the pension account holder from the pension registrar. What is the purpose of this change? Is it desired, then, to start predicting a person's future pension, to show him or to show him or to show him or her the pension he or she is already receiving? And why is it the Social Insurance Board, not the pension register? How has it been decided that this information will move in this direction and that they will be responsible for publishing the information?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U35	Thank you. I think that is a very good question and a very substantive question. Indeed, we did not discuss these issues in the Commission, but I think it will complement the pension calculator and in the future it will be possible to share information on both the second and third pension pillars.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U36	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U37	Yeah, hello! Dear Tõnis Mölder! You said that the Commission had such information that there were two options on the government table: either a pension increase or an exemption. But can you specify how these proposals will get to that government table? Isn't it the case that the same minister, who now fell behind the fact that there were only two variants on the table, should personally bring these proposals to the table of the government? Why, then, did he not bring there a proposal for a higher pension increase, as was promised before the elections, and why did he not bring there this tax exemption and demand that all these promises be implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U38	Thank you. Again, the brief answer is that the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu did not discuss this issue. You could put a point here, but I'm not, I'll answer more in substance. I think that, in our committee, it was the Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiik, who pointed out that he really took all the opportunities that could be made with pensions next year: the exemption for average retirement, as well as the extraordinary increase in pensions. But I will continue to point out that if we take on a real economic situation now, the average pension will not increase with indexation next year. This reality is zero today. It should be taken into account that we are not in this economic situation, where we were perhaps a year or a half ago, before the Riigikogu elections. I think, once again, that this is not the opinion of the Commission, it is my personal opinion, that I should congratulate this government, precisely for the fact that, for two years in a row, he has increased his pension exceptionally. When the average pension was increased by 45 euros last year on 1 April, it was an extraordinary pension increase plus indexation, and this year there was an extraordinary increase, it would amount to 65 euros in total. I think it's a pretty badge slope. And actually, I don't want to blame anyone for anything, in the sense that all these questions are justified. There are 15 ministers at the table of the Government of the Republic, each with his own responsibilities, and everyone is dragging this deckhead towards him. But I think the Minister for Social Affairs has come out of the budget negotiations with a very strong grade.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U39	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U40	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Since we are with you in the Committee on Social Affairs, we have the data and the numbers all known, but the people in this Chamber may not have the whole subject, then maybe you could just say some numbers. You already mentioned that people with a pension of less than 500 euros are about 60,000. In the first debate, we also talked about those people affected by an increase in national pensions of EUR 30. What's the number? And how many people are affected by this bill? There would then be an overview: there are so many pension beneficiaries at all, there are so many pension beneficiaries under EUR 500, and so many people will receive the pension with the increase in the base where the national pension rises.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U41	Thank you. I could respond to a good colleague, Helmen Hunt, so that I could certainly have asked these questions in the Committee on Social Affairs of the Riigikogu and dealt with this subject, so I could have read about it from this protocol. But let's talk about the numbers in my memory and in my head. Once again, orders of magnitude. We have 300,000 pensioners in Estonia. As I said, 60000 circa is for those who receive a pension of less than 500 euros, and the rest is for those who receive more than 500 euros and are indeed taxed on the part that exceeds that 500 euros. Now, when it comes to people receiving national pensions, you don't even lie or bluff, you don't know that number by heart. If I'm not mistaken, there are a couple of thousand people, but I might be wrong, so I'd rather not say that number.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U42	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I am now asking something that we really did discuss in the Committee on Social Affairs, and I am doing it for exactly the same purpose as Mr Küttt, so that colleagues can also hear it. Can you please tell me how much less lives in relative poverty for pensioners after the implementation of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U44	Thank you. Also for you, good Liina Kersna, we did not discuss these topics between the first reading and the second reading. This debate took place at first reading. But if I'm not mistaken, that coefficient must have been 1%, which goes down. I think it was at 1, if I'm not mistaken, it was 1, 3, or 1.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U45	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U46	Thank you. Mr. Mölder, it's impressive how you sometimes catch up with Jüri Ratas' voice, style and even use his parasitic words. It was particularly horrifying when you responded to Mr Urmas on the subject of extraordinary pension increases. You said that it is often the case that there have been governments that do not exceptionally raise pensions. Tell me what your understanding of the pension system is. On what does the amount of pension depend, and what makes him one of the most extraordinary things?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U47	Thank you. In the meantime, when you asked, you may not have noticed, I took once off the mask to show you that I really am here on the remote, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas is not. To make sure. Returning to your question, the brief answer would be that the Committee on Social Affairs did not discuss it, but I will still tell you my brief opinion. Look, there is nothing to deny, Estonian pension and average pension are not at the forefront of other European Union countries, rather at the back end. I think that every government could and should have priority to move the Estonian average pension to the country so that it is comparable to the other Member States. There are two ways to do this: one is to do this by indexing; the other is to encourage the increase of the base part, precisely through the budget. Mr Ligi, you yourself have also been a minister, I think that a very good minister, I would like to congratulate you even for that, but indeed, in the case of these governments, where you have been a minister, it has not always been a priority to raise your pension. I do not think it would be worth derogatory to those governments whose priority it has been. So anyway, I think I will continue to say once again that this is my personal opinion, that the current government should be commended for the extraordinary increase in pensions, because by indexing our pension will indeed remain in place next year and we will not be following the countries of the European Union, in the middle.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U48	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U49	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You have mentioned the activities of previous governments here. I would remind you that, between 2005 and 2007, when the Reform Party and the People's Union and the Centre Party were in government, the pension rose exceptionally by nearly 40%. You've been using those numbers in your propaganda channels. Now you are saying that in two years, the pension rose to 65 euros. But put it on the same scale as the percentage it is now in two years, compared to a 40% increase in the pension from 2005 to 2007 in two years. Put it on the same scale. How much is it now rising in two years, and how much was it rising in 2005-2007?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U50	Thank you, Mr. Sõerd. Once again, the brief answer is that the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu did not discuss it. But I'll answer you. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on reading Midweek and other fine publications and on following the actions of the Central Party. Congratulations to you for that! In fact, you pointed out the time when the government was formed by parties such as the Centre Party, the Reform Party and the People's Union. Do you notice that there is always a party name that deals with pensions and extraordinary pension increases? Yeah, who says the People's League, who thinks of the Centre Party, right here everyone can calculate and think about it. But what I just want to say is that really different governments have had different priorities and that it is not worth scolding any government. I think we should rather be commended, because we have to stand up for pensioners. And once again: if I am not mistaken, the pension increase on 1 April of last year, 45 euros in the middle, putting into any currency, kroons or euros, we can also calculate it as dollars, one of the biggest pension increases in Estonia's history. I want to congratulate the government on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U51	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You have just mentioned that the aim of all this pension increase is to catch up with the European average. Tell me what the average numbers are, where we're going to catch up, and what's the plan? How much should rise every year, and for what year will we catch up?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U53	Thank you. Once again, this rate can still be set according to the economic environment. It wasn't like we could predict a year or a half ago that the COVID would hit the whole world so hard and actually have so much impact on the economic situation. Just as I said to other colleagues here when they asked, there are two ways to increase pensions: one is raising the base section, which concerns all pensioners; the other is indexation, which also affects all pensioners, some less, some more, depending on the calculation. I think that if we were to move on this schedule and raise the basic pension from year to year, and we would be indexing it, sincerely hoping that the economic environment would really improve, it could happen in the coming years, in the next decade. But what is this specific deadline or year? I don't think we can predict that today. There are too many variables here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U54	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U55	Thank you! First of all, a good waitress, here before my colleague, there was a question of how much this relative poverty rate is decreasing. I would just like to point out that there are shelves in the back where you can take the draft explanatory memorandum, which reads it at the end of the second paragraph on the first page: 1.2% is decreasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U56	See, I said 1.3.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U57	That's why I'm saying the pension increase is good, but it should be much bigger. And it will actually cost you less than any entrepreneur-developer associated with the Central Party sponsors will be granted a loan for state money. But I'll come back to what you said before. You said that the Minister had five proposals, but then other colleagues pulled the blanket on themselves, perhaps they rejected it from the table. Could you specify who the other colleagues were who rejected the Minister's proposal? Was it Jüri Ratas, was it Mailis Reps, was it Taavi Aas, was it Jaak Aab or any other member of the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U58	Thank you. Well, it seems to me that you've got everything mixed up like mush and cabbages. First we come back to the beginning. You brought the game to KredEx. I do not know that we are working today on the amendment of the National Pension Insurance Act and its discussion at second reading. We in the Social Committee of the Riigikogu are still dealing with matters in substance. Our debate is polite, substantive and intelligent; we are not dealing with issues that are not broadly within the framework of our committee. I do not really know what the soul life of the government is or what the soul life of an Estonian company or credit institution is. These are certainly very important subjects, but they are not the competence of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. We are still dealing with issues in our field. I suggest you also come and listen to some of the sittings of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. For example, today we have a very exciting topic, we are talking about the Health Insurance Fund, its funding and its future perspective. I think that this is a very important issue; it is also very much about tax policy. So I would like to invite you to take part in the work of our committee. I would also like to hear your opinion, because the debate is indeed very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U59	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U60	Thank you. I will continue on the subject of the previous question. Indeed, future pension beneficiaries should have such a general understanding of the expected amount of their pension. The fact that this type of information is available to people is very good. It allows people to prepare for retirement, to make plans and also to make decisions on pension collection. With the first kick I looked at it here in § 5, that when some things enter into force only from 1 January 2027, maybe this too, but luckily not, it will enter into force in the general order. If the Social Insurance Board now has the right to receive information from the pension registrar about the amounts entered in the pension account and the owner, when could this information become visible to people, accessible to them? Does this happen before people can make statements to decide whether to continue collecting their second pension pillar or to withdraw funds?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U61	Thank you. Well, that depends first and foremost on IT developments. We did not discuss this issue in the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. But being optimistic and aware of what you know, how well and vigorously the Ministry of Social Affairs and their team and partners are working, I really hope that, before introducing such a major change as the reform of the second pillar of pensions, these things could be available.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U62	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I just want to be more specific. We have discussed all this at the meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs, which I asked and asked my colleague Liina Kersna. Yes, today is the second reading of this bill, but the waitress must master the subject and it would still be reasonable if the bill at first reading was known and so on. The question was not malicious, but simply educational for colleagues. As you can see, a lot of people are asking about what is being discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. And your recommendation that you come to the Social Affairs Committee is not very sensible because not everyone will be able to attend the meetings of all committees. Consequently, it would be very good if these figures were known. In the interests of the verbatim report, there are over 3,000 people affected by the rise in national pensions. So this ironing of the questioners asking substantive questions in order for colleagues to know these things is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U64	Thank you. I take note of your recommendation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U65	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U66	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! You commended the current government for the rise in pensions of EUR 20. As we know, the same government has decided to freeze teachers' salaries for four years. Do you also congratulate the government on this decision and you agree with Finance Minister Martin Helme, who recently told us that, since most teachers are soon to be retired, this EUR 20 is enough for them? Do you commend the government for this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U67	Well, now we're going on this slippery road I don't really want to go on. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has not dealt with teachers' salaries, KredEx or anything like that. Once again: I think, and I continue to think, it is my personal opinion that the government must be commended for dealing with pensioners and pension increases. As far as other areas are concerned, tomorrow we will have a second reading of the state budget, and I know that there are a lot of good and fierce amendments, but, as the budget always does, every source of expenditure must also be covered. Here I really suggest that we come back tomorrow to these issues and to the debate on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U68	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your presentation today, you have repeatedly praised the government, which is good and merciful, because it exceptionally raises the pension and did so last year, and talked about how indexing does not seem to work very much and does not guarantee this increase. Could you please remind us of the numbers? What was the average pension increase last year, which came due to indexation, and how much was that part of the government's grace? And the second question: have you also discussed in the Commission that, if indexation does not work and there is a need to increase pension at a faster pace, perhaps the system should be changed so that this pension increase is faster and does not depend on the grace of the government each year?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U70	No, we have not discussed in the Social Committee of the Riigikogu what concerns the calculation of pensions and changes in its calculation. This is not what we have done in the framework of this draft. However, there are some technical and editorial changes that really change the system a little, but not the overall picture. We're still talking about base and indexing today. Returning to the first part of your question, which concerns last year, as I said, raising the base exceptionally plus indexation amounted to EUR 45 in total. I don't think it even matters what those numbers and their relationship were. But I think the important thing is that, indeed, last year there was an extraordinary pension increase of EUR 45 per year. I think it's important. Once again, I think that the opposition should also praise the government for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U71	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, I would remind you of what my colleague Mart Võrguship asked about earlier, namely that EUR 7 was raised last year's base. You said that the budget for all expenditure must be covered. As we know, this year, in 2021, which we are talking about, the budget will be covered by a two billion loan. Through the crisis, the budget finds investment of one billion euros. This means that one billion will go from a loan to cover current expenditure, including an increase in the pension. If you said earlier that pensions could be increased according to economic growth, why are you making an exception this year, in 2021, without taking into account the economic downturn or at least cooling off, and raising pensions at the expense of a loan?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U73	Thank you. Once again: the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu did not discuss these issues, but I will then answer your question a little more substantively. First of all, I think I totally agree with you on that. The state cannot live for a long time and spend its daily expenses on a loan. This is not a sustainable economic policy. I think that here we fully agree with both you and your party's group. We may have a political disagreement here, but I think we both accept that. I think that Estonian pensioners do not live well enough. I think that the aim of each government should be to raise the average pension in Estonia and to do so in such a way that it follows the European average. I think it could be a priority for any government. Perhaps it should not be made every year to depend on the economic environment, even though it is a very important variable. You can't live every time and you can't live for long on a loan. I don't think the Government of the Republic has done that either. It is very clear where this budget is heading towards balance, and for that I would also like to congratulate the government. Coming back to your question and these numbers, you said 7 and I said 21 or 20, it seems to me that this year the base will be raised three times as much as last year. Again, I would like to commend the Government of the Republic, but what does my personal opinion matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U74	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U75	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, First of all, that last answer to my question. I understand there's really no specific plan. It is, of course, very bad that there is no concrete vision of how much should be raised, where should be reached and by what time. Usually things get stuck somewhere, fall off. But here's my question. In the meantime, the pension reform entered into force, the Supreme Court made its decision, and in light of this, the first pillar of the pension becomes, in fact, much more important. Much more people will depend on it and their welfare. This also means that in one version the first pillar of the pension should be significantly higher, and in the light of this, the current pension increase is, to me, too small to look at the future. Did you discuss these issues and what this Commission position might have been?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U76	Thank you. No, indeed, the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has not discussed this issue specifically from this point of view. But we all understand that when people withdraw their pension money from the second pillar, they pay off certain taxes to the state, and there is a certain point of austerity in the country too, my clear vision is that, once again, this is my personal opinion, then this freed-up resource, in the state budget sense, should move into the first pillar for precisely the rise of the basic part of the pension. I imagine that this impact of the second pillar reform, the impact of the pension pillar reform, will still be reflected in the discussions for the next financial year, i.e. not 2021, but 2022. I believe that the Government of the Republic will take account of these revenues when drawing up the state budget for the following year and will certainly return to this debate. I believe that the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu will also discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U77	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U78	Good manager! Good waitress! For the sake of the stenogram, I would like to ask the following question. According to the draft, the pension supplement for raising children will be increased from one annual price to 1.5 annual prices. We know that for each child to be raised, either the mother or the father will get more than three years in the family. Does this annual rating of 1.5 mean that from 1 January the annual index of 7,104? Does this mean, then, that in all three years, there will be an increase of EUR 3.55, i.e. more than EUR 10 per child? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U79	Thank you. That's where the difference comes in. You are the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I am the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. I tried to keep up with your math. I also reached the numbers you have in front of you. Indeed, in that you were right that the annual grade will increase to EUR 7.104. It was well read out of here. In my opinion, when I came to the end of your thinking, I was pointing my finger at the next step, and your math was quite correct. But I can't be sure until the end. I'm sure you know better as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but it seems to me that the calculation was quite correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U80	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U81	Good manager! Good waitress! Everything is excellent for the parents of this coefficient, pension increases, people's pensions, this rise and everything. However, I would like to ask about one amendment concerning a person who has worked abroad and whose pension, because he does not have this 15-year period, is falling. My question is on the third amendment. How did this influential person come to such a proposal for improvement and that we take it into account? Would you open it up a little bit? The Chancellor of Justice has often drawn our attention to some unfair circumstances. And how many people could have gotten into the law because of this very powerful person?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U82	Thank you. I did not fully understand the emphasis of the question in this sense, who are these influential individuals or individuals. But once again: as I said, the editorial changes that we introduced between the first reading and the second reading concern the draft law that was adopted in 2018, where, by laying down the law that amends the retirement age and introduces the flexible pension system, references were, say, misplaced. Today we are trying to correct these editorial errors in such a way that all people can understand it in the same way, and so that the bill adopted in 2018 in the previous Riigikogu can be applied sensibly. Yes, indeed, what you referred to concerns the specification of the arrangements for the payment of pensions to persons receiving both Estonian and foreign pensions. At this point, however, I am indebted to the answer as to whether it also concerns anyone by the fact that the clarification is going down in some way. I owe you an answer on this one. But I think it is important that we create clarity and do it in such a way that the law adopted in the previous Riigikogu, which I think is quite good, can be applied in the same way and understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U83	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U84	Thank you once again, Mr President. Dear waitress, I wanted to welcome the fact that both my party, the Reform Party and your party, the Central Party, agree and agree that the loan cannot live long, it is not sustainable public finances. However, by 2021, you will finance the running costs, i.e. the increase in the basic part of your pension, at the expense of the loan. Why do you think that in a situation where unemployment is growing in the Estonian economy as a whole, people's wages are being reduced and people are being sent home from work, pensioners will be happy to see this increase in pensions paid on a loan? The Reform Party has managed to keep the budget balanced and surplus in previous years, but the Centre Party, while in government, has so far failed to keep the budget balanced. You are only talking about budgetary balance in the future. Maybe you won't stay in the government as long as this future gets here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U85	Thank you. Well, about that last sentence, I don't know, maybe you have more information than I do. But there is also the difference that in previous times, the economic environment was significantly better. Coming back now to this debate on cutbacks, we know that, when there was an economic crisis at the end of the last decade, the government really went down the road that it fell to cut down. Well, I don't know if, in the long run, this boosted our economy as well as it could have. At the moment, the government has still had two very clearly on the table: either to cut or to boost the economy with public money. It has been the case that the economy, including the pension, is being boosted by an average pension. I think it's the money that goes into circulation. In the same way, it raises turnover in shops, trades, and money moves back to the state budget in the long term, in taxes. Who and which one is right now? Was it right for me to be cut, or for me to be cheered up? Well, I'm hoping it's the right way to rehabilitate. But whichever is right or whether we have any point in arguing here is shown by the years. I think it is shown by the years that Estonia comes out of this, I would say, unpredictable economic situation. Indeed, not only is the economic environment a variable here, but one major variable is the same disease. Much depends on how quickly we can get control of this disease around the world and how quickly we can get normal trade and the economic system to function again. I think it's very important. So in this sense, who is right, I don't know, but I think that when the choice was made for these two solutions or directions to cut down or invest public money, then my personal opinion is that the government made the right decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U86	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U87	Thank you for the floor. Dear waitress, thank you for your answers so far. I'd like to come up with something. First of all, it is very nice that pensions are still rising, although yes, given the high priority that the Centre Party has presented over the years and so this year, the effect of reducing the poverty of pensioners is, unfortunately, rather small. It still gives you the chance to look behind you by looking at what our actual situation is exactly about relative poverty, and these percentages have already been mentioned here. It would therefore be very important that the average pension also be definitely exempt from income tax, and not only if we are talking about a minimum wage in this context, it could also be changed. But one component of pension increases and pensions is the share of children. Did you discuss that this could also be income tax-free? And why do you think it's not tax-free yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U88	Thank you. We also had this debate on the agenda at the Social Committee of the Riigikogu during the first reading. And if I am not mistaken, the response of Minister for Social Affairs Tanel Kiige was that the Government of the Republic has not discussed this issue in the context of this budget, but if Parliament has a desire to return to this debate, then one possibility is to do so in the course of the three readings of the state budget next year through amendments. I think tomorrow is a great day if you can come back to this debate. I myself, having heard the debate that we had in the Committee on Social Affairs of the Riigikogu, would not be so sceptical about what concerns the average pension and the tax exemption. The government has not pushed it anywhere from the table; everyone will realise that this is a priority for the coming years and this is the direction that should be taken. But once again: since we have about 320000 pensioners and 60000 of them are still receiving a pension of less than EUR 500, it was right to help with this extraordinary increase in pension, which is 20 euros in the middle, namely the smallest pension recipients, including those receiving national pensions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U89	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U90	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I was moved by your answer to Annely Akkermann's question, which, if paraphrased, can then be summarised as follows: either cut or reinvigorate, that is the question. I just want to say that in 2008 and 2009, the solution to the crisis created these opportunities, that now not only do we have to cut it, but we can also boost it. It's for the sake of the verbatim. But I was also pleased to hear that you very kindly agreed that the average pension should be exempt from income tax. So I think there's a lot of this joint right here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U91	Thank you. I understand that, in speaking here with your groupmate, we have indeed found that both the worldview of the Reform Party and the economic views presented by your group have a pretty large joint role with the current government. I think that what the Centre Party or the Centre Party Group is thinking is not just the subject of our party, but the whole issue of government policy. In that sense, I think there's actually a pretty big common ground. So from time to time, both the opposition and the coalition should take one step back and look at what major economic issues we have in common and how to develop the Estonian economy in the very long term so that we can get our costs-benefits to zero, pensions to rise from year to year and average pensions to be tax-free.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U92	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U93	Good manager! Good waitress! I'll come back to my last question. It's very sympathetic when one person's concerns start to change the law. And it doesn't just concern this case of retirement. Well, in this explanatory memorandum, black and white says there's a known person who worked abroad, and his pension should therefore fall. But my question is more general. Would you send me more detailed material on this just as I think colleagues would also be interested in how we should get to this point in order to make these changes to the law? There are many laws that disturb many people. How can a law change be made if something in a law hinders the well - being of one person?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U94	Thank you. First of all, I think that every person in Estonia is very important. One person is also very important to Estonians. There are not many of us here in Estonia, and I think every person must be kept. I think that this Parliament's work is that we must, when making every decision we make, first and foremost consider whether we are making the lives of the people of Estonia better or worse. I think this is a matter of weight, and that is what the debate and debate are going on every day in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu. The materials you asked about. I think that, apart from this item on the agenda, we can agree here that we can deliver these additional materials to you if you wish. I think that the good secretariat of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu is kindly prepared to share this idea and, if necessary, ask the Ministry of Social Affairs for additional information. But once again, I do not think that it is worth minimizing this situation that it is either one or a small number of people. I think every person is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U95	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U96	Thank you. Good waitress! It was so touching how you talked a few questions ago about finding this common ground. But to see how Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik has gone to government with countless proposals on different topics and you have always come back from there, you have said today that the Minister had a number of ideas with which he went into government, but the only thing he has now achieved is this pension increase, which could actually be bigger and which, unfortunately, is the concern that there has not been an average pension tax exemption, as well as everything that concerns such a very time-critical issue as compensation for sick days, not to mention the new decision of your own congress to deal with the topic of informal care, it all stands and is blocked. You are constantly talking about tomorrow's budget. Do you, then, support the Socialist proposal that the minimum wage should be exempt from income tax? Through this, on the one hand, we will certainly be exempting at least average pension income tax, and on the other hand, you are also talking about boosting the economy, and on the other hand, giving those people with the lowest incomes a substantial increase in purchasing power. As Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, will you be supporting this amendment tomorrow?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U97	Thank you for that question. Look, there's the big joint again. In fact, I think that this is a large common ground for both your group and the Government of the Republic. Well, one of the goals of this government is to help those groups in Estonian society, which are the weakest groups, whose income and livelihood may not be as good as other people in Estonia. So I think we have one big joint. If the amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party is to be discussed in tomorrow's budget debate, so that Estonia's minimum wage can be tax-free, then this debate can be held. This debate must be held tomorrow when there is a second reading of the budget. Coming back here in the middle, then, ladies and gentlemen, I also put to our heart that the budget must be balanced. As I said in my previous answers, every expense must have a source of cover. If we see in these discussions tomorrow that such changes can be introduced into the budget, the sources of cover are in order, and the vision of balance in the long term that the Government of the Republic has does not shift away, then this debate can be held. I think this is the right place to keep it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U98	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U99	Thanks! Good Tõnis! I am now actually asking about Amendment 1.2 of this draft. Does this change anything now for those people who decide to continue their contributions to their second pension pillar? Will you change anything with this amendment in making people's contributions or in the amount that the state will pay in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U100	Thank you. Returning to your question, I will read two sentences from this explanatory memorandum and from the list of amendments. "The amount of the insurance component shall be calculated on the basis of the amount of the insurance units calculated for the period from 1 January 1999 to 31 December 2020. " Well, it doesn't seem to be the subject of your question. But here's another sentence, let's read it. "The amount of the unit shall be calculated on the basis of the sum of the insurance units calculated as from 1 January 2021. " It is difficult to answer your question unambiguously, but I think you are right: there is still a small impact.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U101	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U102	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, For years, we have been talking about pension, its size and many pensioners in Estonia whose income is not enough to live well. There are several things to look at here at once. First of all, at the beginning of this century, a pension reform was carried out, creating a second and third pension pillar. Now, with the adoption of the law and the decision of the Supreme Court, the President has also announced the law, the second pension pillar is optional. But it should also be borne in mind in all laws that on December 12, 2018, we adopted the Act amending the State Pension Insurance Act in this very hall. In this context, the calculation of the first pillar pension will also change from 1 January next year. It has been mentioned here today that where and how, whether loan money or what increases the base of the first pillar. Now, let us be honest, no matter how this calculation is done, this order of magnitude is about such that if the law on the second pillar of pensions had not been passed, the pension would now be 100 euros higher. In fact, money has been taken away from pensioners currently in retirement, as the amount paid through social tax is divided into pensions. And the state has compensated for this, it has compensated for this difference with money from other taxes. Has it been right or not? Well, that depends on a lot of understanding and agreements. But if all of this money had been in the Estonian economy for nearly 20 years, I think that perhaps the economy would have been revived much more and economic growth would have been greater, and that would have led to people's salaries being higher and also the amount of social tax paid into the pension. In my opinion, the very important thing about this pension law is that we value raising children. This has always been our party's priority. During the 2011 Riigikogu elections, our main promise was a maternity pension, now known as a parental pension. Its last phase came into force in 2017 or 2018, when the decision was extended to one of the parents for raising their children to be added to the three-year index. This draft will increase it by a factor of 1.5. That is why I also asked the chairman of the committee so that we could all understand in the same way in this Chamber: the three-year coefficient is obtained for raising children. Maybe now it's 7,104. On the other hand, in order to equalise and bring pensioners out of poverty, it is important that the basic part of the pension grows. And if this amount was not the highest in the state budget adopted last year, then according to the draft we are currently discussing, the base pension will increase by EUR 16 from 1 April next year. We know today that the increase in the basic part of the pension affects nearly 320 people and according to the Social Insurance Board, in 2019 the parental pension supplement received approximately 203300 pensioners for children, i.e. 428600 children, so on average one of the parents has 2.11 children. It's important that we value it. We know that, along with the so-called maternity allowance and maternity pension, the number of families with three children has increased very well in recent years. I believe that one of the tasks of the Estonian Government and the Riigikogu is to support Estonians, families and children growing there. And after the children have been raised, parents must also be supported for contributing to society and child education, with a maternity pension. So the Isamaa party supports this bill and is pleased that a very large part of this law is an increase from 1 to 1.5 in the annual price for raising children. It is also important...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U103	Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U104	I'm almost done. ... a national pension rate of EUR 30 for 3000 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U105	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U106	Just in case, please extend three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U107	Please, 5 + 3 minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U108	You can always talk less. Good fellows! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The explanatory memorandum to the second reading of this bill contains a very beautiful sentence: "The draft deals with increasing pensions through the base section and the pension supplement for raising children, as well as increasing the national pension rate. The aim of the amendment is to reduce and improve the livelihood and well-being of older people. " I don't think there's a single person in this room who wouldn't sign this very good idea. Surely we want our elderly people to live better than their income so that they can go to the cinema-theater true, now the kroon virus is a bit of a barrier, so that they can also enjoy their old age, order newspapers and buy books, and that their old age is valued. In June 2019, the Ministry of Social Affairs carried out a survey of older people's economic livelihoods and poverty. And now I am quoting a certain paragraph from this study, because the chairman of the committee spoke very thoroughly about the Commission meeting that took place before the second reading, but very many of the questions that were raised in this Chamber today actually concerned the first debate, these issues and questions of our committee. As I pointed out in my question, the number of pensioners affected by this bill, the number of those receiving a pension of less than EUR 500 and the number of those receiving a national pension were examined. On the basis of this study, the European Commission has repeatedly highlighted the issue of pension inadequacy in its annual Estonian state report. And the final report reiterates the fact that poverty is still high in Estonia in terms of older people, 65 and 65. It is true that amendments to the National Pension Insurance Act have been adopted in 2018, but they were then based on a three-part pension system with the first and second pension pillars (all 1983 and later). It was recognised that they can contribute to the sustainability of the pension system and are expected to help alleviate older people's poverty. In 2018, the pension supplement was also paid for one year for each child and 115 euros per year for a pensioner living alone from 2017. It is precisely in order to alleviate the poverty of pensioners that the pension is of key importance, since it is the main source of income for older people. According to the Social Insurance Board, the average old-age pension in 2018 was 446.52 euros for 44 years of retirement. Older people's income is close to the risk threshold, so the poverty of older people depends on the pace of pension and wage change. If pensions grow rapidly and improve the general standard of living in society, pensioners will not fall into relative poverty. Households of one member are in the most difficult situation, especially individuals aged 65 and over. And very often, these very few are women. If the old-age pension had increased by EUR 70 in 2020, it would have been expected to reduce the relative poverty rate of the population aged 65 and over by 8.3%. If the retirement pension had been increased by EUR 100 per month, this would have reduced the relative poverty rate of the population aged 65 and over by 13.9%. Why am I talking about all this? The speakers here have spoken of what one government has done or what another government has done. During the period of Taavi Rõivas' government, the average pension was income tax-free. During Jüri Ratas's first government, it was amended, true, the principle and the law that 500 euros, or the minimum wage, are exempt, so the average pension and even more than the average pension were exempt. We are now in a situation where the minimum wage or the Estonian average pension is not tax-free. Tomorrow is really, as has already been said here, the second reading of the state budget. Good colleagues from both my group and the Reform Party have tabled a number of amendments that I think are very sensible proposals, many of which concern the average pension tax exemption, as well as the minimum wage tax exemption. As the chairman of the committee said in answering the questions, the Social Committee also mentioned that the supplement paid for children could be exempt from income tax. If there is no guarantee that the average pension will be tax-free, then at least some step would be taken to make people really feel a little relief. It is right to help those whose pension is lower. But in those people who have worked for life or have had a serious life sentence, some of whom have also been in Siberia or repressed, and who are now receiving a higher pension, it gives the feeling that with one hand the state is providing support, but with the other hand it takes, because the average pension is still taxed. And more. Friends, the pension we're talking about today doesn't pay any nursing homes. If the pension increase were slightly higher, it would certainly give people the opportunity to live at home longer and buy more services so that they do not have to get to the service [which is intended for this occasion] when they are no longer able to do so. We will then treat this state budget with truth and faith and a noble consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U109	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U110	Thank you, good manager. Colleagues! Of course, the best guarantee for an increase in pension is strong public finances and a sound economic policy that supports this growth. In this sense, the interest of Estonian entrepreneurs and pensioners is actually one thing: that this economic environment, the state's monetary policy, which supports growth, would allow pensions to grow. But now, coming to the current situation and looking at the picture we have in Estonia, the fact that 54% of people over 65 years of age live at risk of poverty, according to Eurostat, is in any case a very acute problem. And it's also humanly very unfair. It seems to me that this is a subject that politicians do not really have a place to mess with feathers in any way and try to trump each other with party slogans. This is a problem the sharpness and seriousness of which are understood in the same way by all those who took part in this debate in this Chamber today. The small pension increase that we are currently having in the debate is small, but there is no reason to ridicule it either. The Reform Party supports this draft. In doing so, you must also say the second part of the sentence. It is wrong not to pay attention to a problem that is still waiting to be resolved and which people receiving an average pension have now raised for several years. When, until the end of 2016, the system in Estonia was in place that the state would not take income tax on the average pension, then after the change of government in autumn 2016, the system was changed. I believe that this was done rashly, and I think that this unthinkable mistake has now been understood. I am actually quite sorry that pride does not allow the mistake that has been made to be recognised and corrected, because it currently suffers from pensioners. As has been said, a small pension increase is small, but still an increase. However, if it is accompanied by more than 200,000 pensioners next year, an average pension beneficiary being taxed by the government, as it seems to be going now, then it just seems to be teasing. The Reform Party has long submitted a draft which would correct this error and restore a system in which the average old-age pension would be exempt from income tax and the government would not submit a tax invoice for the average pension, whether it was a pensionable person, a survivor's pension or a beneficiary of an old-age pension. The situation where the average pension is exempt from income tax in Estonia would be restored in the same way. This bill is in the Committee on Monetary Affairs drawer, for some reason it is not being dealt with. I once again have a request and a proposal for this bill to be passed on to the heads of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, so that the current situation, which is unfair, is changed and that we can get back to a system where the average pension is to be paid until the people at risk of poverty are free of income tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U111	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. The negotiations are over. One amendment to the draft has been tabled; it has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 253. The second reading is closed and our third item today is also under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U112	Let's keep going. Today's fourth item is the second reading of § 28 of the Citizenship Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. I request Kalle Grünthal, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 10 November, the Constitutional Committee discussed the preparation of the draft Act supplementing § 28 of the Citizenship Act initiated by the Government of the Republic for the second reading. Alar Laneman, chairman of the committee, members Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski Martin Repinski, Siim Kiisler, Andrei Korobeinik, Lauri Läänemets, Hanno Pevkur, Taavi Rõivas and rapporteur for the draft proposal were involved in the proceedings. Ruth Annus, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, and Koidu Bee, adviser, also participated in the presentation of the draft, and Kari Käsper, the legal official of the Mission of the United Nations Refugee Agency to the Nordic and Baltic States, was also present. At the beginning of the meeting, Karin Tuulik, adviser to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, stated that the draft law supplementing § 28 of the Citizenship Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic, the first reading of the draft was on 30 September and the deadline for amendments was 14 October. No amendments were received. However, an opinion on the draft was given by the United Nations Office for Refugees in the Nordic and Baltic countries (hereinafter referred to as UNHCR) and was presented by Kari Käsper, the UNHCR legal officer. The first speaker was Kari Käsper, who had previously sent the opinion of the UNHCR to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in which he outlined the main comments on the draft. Kari Käsper said that similar issues have been discussed in other countries, especially as regards the committing of terrorist offences and the taking away of nationality from individuals. Kari Käsper stated that the UNHCR considers that the withdrawal of citizenship resulting in a lack of nationality should only be possible in entirely extreme cases and in particular in situations where citizenship has been fraudulently acquired. In his view, it is, of course, understandable in the situations outlined in the draft that people should be deprived of their nationality, but that the person should not therefore remain uncitizenised. The UNHCR's recommendation was that the withdrawal of citizenship would only be possible if it did not end in the absence of nationality. The UNHCR also proposed that Estonia could also join the global conventions on citizenshiplessness, which would allow certain wider choices to be made. Kari Käsper noted that the UNHCR also points out that the draft is a situation of unequal treatment, since the Estonian citizen at birth cannot be deprived of citizenship, and the draft extends only to naturalisation for those who have acquired citizenship, which in itself may not be justified. The UNHCR's proposal was that, if the removal of citizenship was applied to naturalisation recipients, it would only be done for a certain period of time after the acquisition of citizenship. Interestingly, Kari Käsper said that if a person had been living for a certain time, such as a naturalised citizen for a year, he could not be deprived of his citizenship, as could a native citizen. Kari Käsper said that UNHCR considers that § 28 of the Healthy Citizenship Act should be reviewed and written in such a way as to make it more logical. The draft is intended to supplement § 28 (11), which may not be in accordance with the principles of international law. Mr Pevkur asked that if, in the UNHCR's view, citizenship obtained by scam could be withdrawn, how could it be justified that anti-national acts should not be deprived of nationality? Hanno Pevkur also asked whether UNHCR considered the anti-State act to be more lenient than fraud. Apart from terrorist offences, traitors of treason usually have another country that wants to offer them citizenship, the one they spied for. There is no risk of treachery being stateless. The short response of Kari Käsper was that the basis for taking away citizenship is that citizenship was fraudulently obtained in order to prevent situations where people start cheating in order to gain citizenship. Kari Käsper also stressed that the UNHCR is of the opinion that traitors should not be completely deprived of their nationality, and international law seeks to prevent a person from having any nationality. In his opinion, this could have security implications. Hanno Pevkur's question as to how many people are stateless in Europe or in the world and whether this is a major problem (he added that in the case of Estonia we are probably talking about one or two people in ten years), Kari Käsper replied that according to UNHCR statistics, stateless persons also belong to undefined citizenship in Estonia. However, global statistics on this issue have not been produced for some reason. In Estonian terms, these are a relatively small number of people who could lose their citizenship because of this change. But the principle of UNHCR is that every person is important and that everyone must be treated in accordance with international law and international obligations. For my part, I added that, in the light of the Constitution, the conditions for obtaining and losing citizenship are laid down in accordance with § 1 of the Constitution of Estonia, according to which Estonia is a sovereign independent state, and it decides for itself how it will implement citizenship. Using European Union legislation and practice would mean that basically the Republic of Estonia would intervene in its internal affairs. The response of Kari Käsper was that the UNHCR's comments should nevertheless be taken as recommendations which, according to the UNHCR, are in line with international law practice and practice. Lauri Läänemets, as a member of the Commission, examined what would happen to those people who were taken away from citizenship, who could not obtain citizenship from any other country, and who could not be expelled from Estonia. What happens then, how does he get a residence permit here and can he still live in Estonia? Ruth Annus replied that if there is no person to send out, she would be granted a residence permit. In Estonia, such people are currently not registered in any register. In addition, Ruth Annus outlined the position of the Government of the Republic on the UNHCR's recommendation to consider accession to the two UN Conventions on Citizenship. Ruth Annus said that since Estonia regained independence, the government coalitions have decided not to join these conventions, and the current government coalition has no intention of joining these conventions either. Since Estonia has not joined any conventions on citizenship, Estonia has a sovereign right to decide on the conditions under which an Estonian person will be deprived of citizenship and under which conditions the person will remain stateless. Given that all people in the European Union have equal social rights and citizenship gives political rights, a person who has committed treason or a terrorist offence need not have the right to talk about which standards apply in the Republic of Estonia, that is to say, he does not need to have political rights that can be exercised through representative democracy. Taavi Kõivas studied what is done to the person from whom citizenship is taken away, but who also has no grounds for granting a residence permit, and whether the country whose nationality that person was previously, has a duty to restore that person's citizenship. Ruth Annus replied that it would be possible for this person to have the nationality of another country if he was willing to receive it. If a person cannot obtain citizenship from another country, he or she will receive a temporary residence permit in Estonia. A long-term resident's residence permit shall not be granted to persons who pose a threat to public policy or national security. Two people have been convicted in Estonia for financing terrorism, but at the moment, there are no such people in Estonia at all. Alar Laneman, as chairman of the committee, concluded that, should the situation change, it would be possible to come back to the subject and also to propose solutions. Finally, Ruth Annus added that the draft is a discretionary decision, which means that the Government of the Republic must identify all relevant facts, including what will happen to this person and make a deliberate decision. In addition, this decision is in dispute before the courts, all procedural guarantees are fully guaranteed to the person, and the existing supporting legal system allows for a right and fair decision to be taken on a case-by-case basis. Following this, the Commission took procedural decisions: to place the draft on the plenary agenda by 17 November 2020, to propose the termination of the second reading and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and the final vote be held on 25 November 2020. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U114	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U115	Good manager! Good waitress! An important draft, however, amazes me how the Refugee Agency recommends that traitors (§ 232 of the Penal Code), spies (§ 234 of the Penal Code) and terrorists (§ 237 of the Penal Code) should not be deprived of their nationality. I would like to have a bit of an extension on what was said in the Commission, because the Refugee Agency, I read here, says yes, could take it from those terrorists, traitors and spies who have acquired citizenship by naturalisation, but only for a certain period of time after citizenship. How long should this period be, in the opinion of the Refugee Agency, so that a terrorist, a traitor or a spy can be deprived of his citizenship?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U116	Actually, I touched on that question. Their proposal, if I recall correctly, must have been linked to a year. Yes, it is, Kari Käsper said that if a person has lived for a certain time, such as one year as a naturalised citizen, he could not be taken away from him. If this answer satisfies you that this is a one-year period, then I have no more to add at the moment, because the other deadlines were not discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U117	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U118	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You read a lot about this debate, but it was very difficult to follow because there was a lot of information. Please tell the Chamber what the Commission's opinion or understanding was at last. On this point, I think we all agree that when it comes to a traitor, the way they behave is something that cannot be accepted. But if we take away citizenship and, as we know, the Estonian citizen cannot have another nationality, he will be deprived of citizenship. So what happens to these people? Will there be a bunch of stateless people in Estonia that can't be sent to another country, and they will be operating here? What was the Commission's conclusion? We discussed this problem, but you slipped over it somehow.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U119	I'm sorry! When I sprung that text, I actually answered. I mean, I gave reasons why we support this bill. Your expression "a bunch of stateless people are emerging" is not true because Ruth Annus has indicated that we do not have such people at the moment. That's one position, and there's really no other option here. The only question right now is if such a case occurs. But all these things are causally related, before there's an act and then there's a consequence. There is certainly no such situation yet, we hope that it will not come. As regards the fact that there must be no double citizenship in Estonia, that is, of course, a very correct comment. Unfortunately, there is a person in our friendly society in the Riigikogu who has double citizenship. So I don't know what you want or how you're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U120	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U121	Good manager! Good waitress! It is interesting to hear the refugee office's recommendation that if you get caught with treason or secret interrogation or terrorism within a year of naturalisation, there is a risk of [citizenship withdrawal], but as soon as the year is over, you can easily start treasoning, secreting and bombing the country, as if citizenship should not be taken away. Where did this one year come from? Did you discuss any international recommendations that the Refugee Agency gives us, or what is the logic? In one year, naturalisation, as a rule, does not reach the position of betrayal and conspiracy. He can drop a bomb.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U122	Thank you for your question. I am absolutely in agreement with you, honourable questioner, that there is no real logic here. As I said earlier, we did not discuss these deadlines. But in principle, all previous governments and the current government were opposed to the application of such a 'legal theory'. I would also like to add that Article 8 of the Constitution lays down the conditions and procedure for obtaining citizenship. This is now our most important form that we need to follow. I can say that, fortunately, Estonia has not joined the principles laid down by the United Nations Refugee Agency and has not established any links with this directive either. So I think that this matter should still remain under the conditions laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. In fact, the Republic of Estonia is also, of course, able, say, to amend and ratify the proposals and treaties of the United Nations Refugee Agency, but, fortunately, there is § 123 of the Constitution, which states that the Republic of Estonia does not conclude foreign agreements that are contrary to the Constitution. So I am convinced that such a directive will not continue to be adopted in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U123	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U124	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I would first like to point out that, if I remember correctly, in the Commission, we talked about the fact that there are people without nationality in Estonia today. Of course, those affected by this law can't yet be, they're starting to emerge now. Just as you and colleague Ernitsa thought that traitors would be bombers, and then basically, bombers who do not have nationality will come on to us, we do not know what they are doing, where they are or where they are moving. But that's it. Help us understand. I understand that if a person does not have citizenship, we take it away from a person, then he gets a passport, in the European Union, abroad, can move around, but he cannot vote in Estonia. But what are these other differences compared to the citizen who we take away citizenship from and who will live here in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U125	Thank you for a good question. In fact, the question now is that you are absolutely right that we have stateless persons here. In addition, there are persons of nationality. We have non-nationals, but they're the owners of a gray passport. As a result of this claim that there are or will be many such people here, I dare say that I do not know at present any naturalisation-acquired person who is present on the territory of Estonia, having committed a terrorist or anti-State crime. We were talking about bombing here. The gentleman who put bombs on Lasnamäe and who has now served his sentence is, according to my knowledge, a person of Estonian citizenship. So neither can he, let's say, the future rule of law be applied. I will stick to this, and I believe in the words of Ruth Dom, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, that we do not have such persons at the moment. Of course, I agree that this issue of the United Nations Refugee Agency came to the table as a whole new and that there were further questions that Mr Läänemets referred to here, but most of these problematic places we have already discussed in the first discussion of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U126	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U127	Thank you. Of course, obtaining citizenship is not a human right, it is a response, and every country can decide for itself these conditions. But did you also mention in the Commission that the lion's share of these stateless or undetermined citizens has come here during the Soviet period, including many of those who have taken Estonian citizenship? Russia declared itself citizens in all former Soviet republics after the break-up of the Soviet Union, which I think was 1994. So we are actually talking about Russian citizens who have not just formalised their citizenship. After all, the lion's share of our traitors, who have been captured so far, has been from this very contingent, so they're not really gonna be stuck in the air. They have the opportunity to acquire citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U128	That's a perfectly good point. Mr Pevkur also pointed out, in my opinion, that those who have been granted naturalisation citizenship are still, as you said, very likely to have come from the territories of the former Soviet Union. They have a chance to go back to that country. I believe that, in this case, Russia will certainly be happy to do so. But as far as the fundamental principle of which people can be deprived of citizenship is concerned, in the very category you have referred to, there are people who are largely naturalised, and yes, we did so by taking them as citizens of the Estonian state. But, of course, I also believe that the Ministry of the Interior, which examined these applications, certainly verified from a legal point of view whether this applicant has renounced the nationality of another country. I think this process has been completely under control. Of course, my dear colleague, the danger and moment behind the tent will certainly remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U129	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U130	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Since 1993, I remember that while the Estonian National Independence Party was still active and working in the Riigikogu, one of the fundamental foundations of citizenship was that no one is given a gift or granted citizenship, but that there is a transfer from one citizenship to another. Maybe it's changed by now. But that's my question. Did it become clear to you at the committee sitting there to me in this Chamber that it is incomprehensible to the link between the refugee administration and the justification of terrorism and treason?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U131	That's a good question. In any case, the ideas proposed by the United Nations Refugee Agency during the procedure for this draft raised doubts and doubts. It is likely that all governments have taken the same view since the rebirth of the Republic of Estonia, and the current government also takes the same view that such a proposal to change the conditions for the withdrawal of citizenship and to retain only part of the scam, is not justified, motivated. I do not dare formally say from this point of view what my position on this issue is. I can do it later. I don't want it getting to the press. However, since I am not presenting my views here, but the positions discussed in the Commission, the answer is what it is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U132	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U133	Thank you. Dear waitress, I did not understand what a member of the Riigikogu had to hide on the remote. You can answer me about that. But a more substantive question: could you explain to me the difference between a citizen and a non-citizen in the context of the bill? If we take away citizenship, what rights will the person who has been deprived of citizenship be deprived of?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U134	Thank you, good questioner! I'll start with the so-called ballast question that came first. What does a member of the Riigikogu have to hide? I have nothing to hide, but since I am a Commission waitress now, I am reporting the Commission's views. When it comes to what's the difference, it means... Can you remind me? [[I. Padar responds from the floor.]] Oh, okay, I remember. I'm sorry! Next time, I'm gonna bring a ballpoint pen and record the main points. I'm inexperienced. I'm sorry! The fundamental point is that a person who has committed treason or a terrorist offence cannot undoubtedly be in a situation where he is guaranteed these fundamental rights: to be a voter, to participate in the electoral process, whether elected or elected. Because if you have betrayed the state or committed such a crime, you have also violated Article 6 (7) of the Citizenship Act, which provides for the oath that a person gives by applying for citizenship, and the brief text of which is very simple: "When applying for Estonian citizenship, I pledge to be faithful to the constitutional order of Estonia. " If he is not loyal to the constitutional order, we cannot trust this person with the procedure of very important matters, for example, I am thinking of the right to be elected and to be electoral.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U135	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U136	Thank you. I have a line rather than a question. As far as I know, those who want or have received Estonian citizenship by naturalisation have had to prove that they do not have the citizenship of another country. However, since Russia does not provide us with this information, in practice, it is simply a man's self-confidence that he does not have it. So we do not have an overview of how many people who actually have Russian citizenship have received Estonian citizenship and who have double citizenship illegally. So it's a more complicated problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U137	Thank you, good questioner! I absolutely agree with your view that Russia will not provide us with this information. This has given us a very high security threat, in my opinion, because when we look at the traitors that were caught in the last period, they have generally always moved towards Russia. One was the case of Mr. Kohver, when it was a prisoner exchange, or there has been some other consideration, these people have served their sentence, or the sentence is still pending. So this observation is absolutely correct. In some ways, the Estonian state is extremely vulnerable at security level, because we do not know how many people are here who have received naturalisation citizenship, but in fact there are double citizenship. This is a serious threat to Estonia's security.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U138	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U139	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I understand that the position of the Human Rights Centre is to create such a universal citizenship for the inhabitants of the planet Earth. At first, however, we still have sovereign states and this approach, obviously, cannot be accepted from the point of view of the security of the sovereign state and the well-being and security of its citizens. To a colleague from under the window, who asked what the difference is between a citizen and a non-citizen, I say that it would not be possible for a non-citizen to sit under the window, because he simply cannot take part in the election and voter. However, it is also a very important point that non-citizens cannot work in many positions in public administration and the public sector, because the question of their loyalty and the question of their rights and privileges, guaranteed by citizenship, does not have that kind of relationship. I don't really have a question like that. Basically, you have said, and rightly so, that you are talking about the debate in the Commission, and I simply assume that the approach in the Commission was similar to what I have just presented.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U140	Thank you, good questioner! I can say that in the Commission, the approach was exactly the same as you were briefing us at the moment. I also very much welcome Ruth Annus, who represented the Ministry of the Interior, who gave exactly the same explanations and spoke of the same principles. It is clear that I am not going to report the entire Commission's protocol here. So, Mr. Mart Helme, you did an excellent job in the government, these officials will continue to follow the principles and directions you set.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U141	Thank you. Honourable waitress, there are no further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 217. The second reading is closed and today's fourth item is under discussion. We can go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U142	Today's fifth item is the second reading of the organic farming law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the draft law amending the law on plant reproductive and plant variety rights 260. I ask Siret Kotka, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U143	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft law was dealt with by the Committee on Rural Affairs on 10 November 2020. Tarmo Tamm, Merry Aart, Heiki Hepner, Siret Kotka, Urmas Kruuse, Ivari Padar and Andrus Seed took part in the committee meeting. We dealt with sending 260 draft laws on organic farming and plant reproductive and plant variety rights to second reading, initiated by the Government of the Republic. We stated that there were no amendments to the draft by the members of the Riigikogu, political groups or anywhere else within the deadline set. However, the Commission itself prepared three amendments, in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Affairs, which were of a technical nature and were presented by the lead committee, the Committee on Rural Affairs. The Commission asked all stakeholders for an opinion; all stakeholders were involved. Our opinion was sent to us by the Organic Cooperation Council. The amendments, which were of a technical nature, were examined and agreed by the Commission in a consensual manner. The Commission took the following decisions: to propose a draft of 260 on the plenary agenda by 17 November 2020, to propose a second reading of 260 (consensus) and, when the second reading of 260 is closed, to propose a draft to be placed on the plenary agenda by 25 November and to hold a final vote (including a consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U144	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U145	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You spoke very nicely about the involvement of all the interest groups and speakers. Can you tell me, if not your member of the committee, but a member of the Riigikogu who will vote for or against this law on 25 November whether the proposals they made were reflected and found solutions, or whether there were some proposals that the Commission could not take into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U146	Our opinion was sent to us only by the Organic Cooperation Council. In his opinion, he referred to the fact that state fees are actually increasing, but should they not be increased. It was their suggestion. That is what we addressed in the Commission. Sigmar Suu, who was a representative of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, pointed out that the issue of state fees was already dealt with in the procedure of the 142 draft law. Yes, the fees for the monitoring of organic farming are increasing and have already been processed in the process of preparing draft 142. The question was whether they could be reduced, given the current situation, COVID-19, the corona. The Ministry of Rural Affairs had not dealt with COVID in general. They now maintained that the question of state fees was discussed during the examination of the 142 draft law, and they did not support any reduction in the fees. State fees, yes, organic farms are increasing. But I must stress that, if we take it in proportion to the neighbouring countries, if we have a state fee of EUR 212 per 100 hectares on average in organic farming, it will be EUR 750 in Finland, EUR 726 in Latvia and EUR 626 to EUR 2977 in Lithuania depending on culture. In other words, we are raising the state fee, but it is still very clearly in our favour of the producer, because compared to neighbouring countries, we are going to meet the company very clearly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U147	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, There is a group of organic farmers on Facebook, where it is currently discussed that if the country does not support organic farming more, several producers are considering abandoning organic farming, as there are still quite a few restrictions on the use of fertilisers and medicines and everything else. At the same time, the European Union aims to achieve a 25% share of organic farming. I think you have certainly discussed, during the procedure for this draft, what measures a country has in mind to meet this European Union objective and how this will be achieved, so that organic farmers do not give up production, but rather come with more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U149	Thank you for your question. The honest answer is that, unfortunately, we did not address it in the Commission, because no one raised this issue. However, I do know that the subject you have raised, the honourable questioner, is a very clear concern for the organic producers. This is actually not only a place of concern for organic producers; it is also, I think, a place of concern for the Estonian state as a whole, because, after all, the priority of the Estonian state has always been that we have maximum pure food, organic food. Here, the Minister for Rural Affairs must come up with good proposals on how to improve this situation. I know that some time ago, the government provided crisis aid, emergency aid, which is going to reach, I understand, producers only next year. It's a bit of a fire-fighting process, but on how to actually take these steps, the Ministry of Rural Affairs, along with the Minister, should come up with better proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U150	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U151	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. With good proposals we can still come up with, and then the pulpit of final truth and ideas cannot be Lai Street 39/41. Now it is that it has been a long time since this debate. It is true that the issue of organic farming has come up more in the context of this draft. We have received appeals, which is why I believe that we should have a major debate on organic farming. What is it about knowing that we are preparing to support organic farming and, on the other hand, raising state fees, your personal position? If the rational behaviour is that we raise subsidies out of one pocket, but if it is reasonable to postpone the increase in state fees, then we will not? How rational is that, and why has the Centre Party been opposed to delaying the raising of state fees?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U152	Thank you, good questioner! The honest answer is that we did not treat it that way in the Commission. We can deal with this in the future in the Commission, I think. The chairman of the committee is currently sitting in the hall. We can certainly increase the issue of organic farming. With regard to the issue of state fees, once again, this is what we dealt with in the procedure of the 142 draft law. If we talk about this today, we will go a little further than this, in fact, this legislative amendment will still give organic companies an additional opportunity. Perhaps one of the greatest objectives of amending this law is that a person or company selling small quantities of non-prepacked organic products will be exempt from the obligation to obtain a certificate, which is a step in the direction that we support smaller businesses active in organic farming. I understand that organic farming has given rise to sharpness, but we are now going a little bit side by side with the bill that we are dealing with here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U153	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U154	Good manager! Good waitress! This morning, we have just discussed the challenges facing organic farming with the leaders of the Chamber of Agriculture. If we come back to Annely Akkermann's question, putting 25% on top is not affordable for our producers or for consumers. However, it has been said here that 100% of the on-the-spot checks can be abandoned in 2022. If you remember, the report of the National Audit Office, when it came to food safety, said that, above all, it is very much the organic producers and the so-called ordinary producers that are affected by this control. Do you think that this control of organic producers should be significantly reduced in the past?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U155	Thank you for your very good observation. If that were possible, I think we would. However, I understand that, following the process of transposing this law, Member States will only be able to waive 100% of the on-the-spot checks from 1 January 2022. I, at least in the Commission, understood that this simply cannot be done sooner, because it is the result of a European Union regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U156	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U157	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Although it is true that the draft law 260 does not deal directly with the state fees and we dealt with them and voted on them in this Chamber in the context of the draft law 142, I do have a question that has now come up again. What is your personal position, which is more appropriate in the case of organic taxation: supervisory fee-based taxation or state tax-based taxation? How do you feel about a more rational solution for the producer and the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U158	Thank you, good questioner! I say once again that the Commission did not discuss this issue, and I am not going to say any personal position here. However, I do think that at moments like this, when organic producers are experiencing a crisis and are under pressure to cope in the future, it is right to invite all those involved around the table and find the best way forward. I think that there could be representatives of both the Commission and the Ministry, both the Minister and the producers, and that a good way should be found. This initiative should come, I think, from the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu or the Ministry of Rural Affairs. But I think that such a debate in the long term is certainly necessary so that we can go forward in Estonia for the sake of mild and clean food.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U159	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U160	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, First of all, I really want to acknowledge that you have made everything very clear to yourself in a complex way. As a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, you have not only the subjects of this bill, but also the previous issues that have been discussed, unlike some other Commission waitress here today. In order to be marketed, it is also necessary to grow. This debate, which has taken place here, and also the appeals of organic producers, precisely when discussing this bill, are forcing me to ask about it. Believe me, there are definitely other people in this room like me. I see that the members of the Committee on Rural Affairs know this by heart, but I do not. Tell me what the slope is, what the fees were before, and what the slope is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U161	Thank you. I'll tell you in a minute. This increase is such that the size of the medium-sized organic enterprise is approximately 100 hectares, and at present such a company will have to pay a state fee of EUR 109, and the amendment that will enter into force next year would amount to EUR 212.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U162	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U163	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I will mark a few questions that colleagues have raised today in this Chamber. Estonia is in a very good position today in terms of the European Union, while the share of organic land is 2%. The objective is to reach 25% by 2030. As far as state fees are concerned, the principle of state fees is that the State fee should cover the costs of the operation to be carried out and does not comply with the state budget. This applies not only to organic farming, but also to all other state fees. As far as financing is concerned, of course, the prices of products in the organic sector are currently low and that is where the country should find additional money. I can tell you that out of 12 million, 1 million goes to the organic sector, organic grain, there's still something, but there's a place to think.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U164	Thank you. It is true, of course, that the costs and benefits of supervision should be balanced. Speaking in a simplified way, compared to what the state is currently spending, it is what revenue is, like, one quarter. In other words, the state actually puts in place every year to monitor. There is no way that the state fees paid by companies will pay 100% of everything. If this fee is raised, as I said, from 109 euros to 212 euros, then that means that these proportions are about 50: 50. This means that the State is still putting in place 50% to cover supervisory costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U165	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U166	Good manager! Good waitress! I ask to reduce my stupidity, and I think that [you need to know] many others too: explain in rural language what the results of supervision are and, on the other hand, the costs. If I have about 100 hectares or no matter how much organic I have, what exactly are these supervisory revenues and costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U167	Simply put, supervisory revenues are the state fee that each organic enterprise pays. The costs are really what the state actually spends to visit and monitor this company every year. These costs are clearly twice as high, now even more than twice, but they are still twice as high as the revenues from state fees in the new year. The overall objective should be that they should be balanced, i.e. the revenue from state fees should allow the costs of supervision to be covered, but this is currently not the case and the State will pay more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U168	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. It is possible to open negotiations. Is there a desire to participate in the negotiations? There does not seem to be a wish, we must examine the amendments, there are three of them. The first amendment is from the Committee on Rural Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. The second amendment has also been taken fully into account by the Committee on Rural Affairs. The third amendment is from the Committee on Rural Affairs and the opinion of the commission is to be fully taken into account. We have therefore examined the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of the draft 260 be completed. No other suggestions have been received. Second reading of bill 260 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U169	We will consider the next item on item No 6, draft law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs initiated by the Government of the Republic. We'll start with a second reading. I ask Merry Aart, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U170	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Law amending the Feed Law 225. Let me briefly remind you of what it is made up of. The purpose of the amendment was to bring the feed law into line with the EU Regulation establishing a list of uses for specific feed. The Directive will be replaced by a directly applicable regulation. The regulation directly applicable to the European Union shall lay down the composition and precise use of the specific feed, the essential nutritional characteristics, the recommended period of use and the type or category of animal for which the specific feed is intended. The amendment to the feed law is due to enter into force on 25 December 2020 and the proposed amendments do not impose any new obligations on feed business operators and monitoring officers. So these are mainly technical changes. Now on the procedural side. The draft law was discussed in the Committee on Rural Affairs on 10 November. The members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and the committees submitted no amendments to the draft 225. Neither the initiator nor the lead committee proposed any amendments to the draft. It was decided, by consensus, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of 225 plenary today, to propose that the second reading of the draft 225 be closed, and, if the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary assembly by 25 November inclusive and that a final vote be taken. That's all I got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U171	Thank you. Questions. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U172	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I wouldn't have been able to give you credit if I hadn't asked you a question. You are very competent, and you always provide in-depth answers to the questioners. My question, as a completely ignorant person, is whether something very specific is meant under special feed, under this term. Who's using it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U173	Thank you. The specific feed is intended to serve a specific nutritional purpose. For example, if there is a risk of ketosis or there is a risk of tetany in animals. This shall be carried out in cooperation with the veterinarian. I can say that, for example, if cats have heart failure, they get special feed, or if dogs are at risk of developing urate stones, they get special feed. This shall be agreed in advance with the veterinarian.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U174	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. It is possible to open negotiations. I see no wish to participate in the negotiations. Let's finish the negotiations. No amendments to this draft were tabled either. We have a proposal from the lead committee to conclude the second reading of the draft 225. No other proposals have been received, so we consider the draft law 225 to be finished with the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U175	We will begin the discussion of the seventh item, the first reading of the draft law on health and safety at work initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of other laws 257. I'd like the Social Minister, Tanel Kiige, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U176	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, Today I am dealing with draft law 257 amending the Law on Health and Safety at Work and other laws. The bill encourages the creation of a safe working environment and facilitates employers' compliance with working environment requirements. To this end, the e-life information system of the Labour Inspectorate, which brings together e-services, will be developed, which will in turn enable the Labour Inspectorate to carry out its main task more successfully, including better targeting of supervision and advice. The information system for working life also facilitates the interaction between institutions and businesses with the state by providing them with new services to improve the working environment and reduce the administrative burden resulting from compliance with the law. Above all, the draft amends the requirements for the Labour Inspectorate database and updates the Basic Regulation. The amendments extend, update and specify the purpose of the database, the list of data to be entered in the database and the deadlines for storing the data. The draft will enable the work life information system to develop a risk analysis tool for the work environment, which will guide the employer on how to prepare a risk analysis with simple steps. The creation of a risk assessment tool will help to raise awareness among businesses about the working environment and the risks involved, enable them to be given the necessary assistance and decision-making support and feedback on improving the working environment. For example, the tool displays the risks inherent in the activity of an entrepreneur and provides typical measures to mitigate the risks. The bill directs employers to assess the risks of the working environment by means of a tool in the information system, which means that the draft requires either a risk analysis to be drawn up in an information system for working life or a transfer to the Labour Inspectorate preferably via an information system for working life. In addition, the draft introduces changes that ensure a safe working environment in a situation where both employees and service providers work simultaneously in an institution or undertaking, i.e. persons working under a contract of command or employment. In such cases, the employer must inform the service provider, where appropriate, of the risks at the workplace and of the organisation of rescue and first aid operations, as well as of the accidents at work that have occurred to the service provider. It also creates an obligation for the service provider to inform the employer of the risks associated with its activities and to ensure that its activities in turn do not endanger employees. The draft also increases the employer's liability for violations of working conditions. To this end, the Trade Unions Act, the Maritime Labour Act, the Employment Contracts Act, the Employee Trustees Act and the Community-wide Employee Inclusion Act raise penalty rates. These laws have not been amended since their adoption, which means that no amendments have been made for 10 to 15 years, depending on the law. According to the bill, the fine rate for a natural person is up to 300 fine units instead of the current 100-200 fine units and for a legal person up to EUR 32000 instead of the current EUR 1300-3200, which obviously did not provide much incentive to improve safety at work. If the draft of the honourable Riigikogu is approved, the amendments will enter into force on 1 March 2021, with the exception of amendments to the fine rates, which will enter into force in the general procedure. This implementing provision gives employers sufficient time to present a risk analysis through the working life information system. According to the draft, the risk analysis must be carried out in or through the working life information system by 1 September 2021 at the latest. The draft does not entail a cost to the state budget insofar as the working life information system is developed from the European Social Fund. Thank you for your attention. I'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U177	Thank you very much. Questions. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U178	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'm asking about a "future work" or a change in working life. Is and how the draft regulates safety and health at work for people who, for example, work part-time at home or teleworking? Has it been dealt with, or has an agreement been reached here with employers and trade unions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U179	Thank you for your question. It's an important subject. As we know, we made instructions on teleworking some time ago at the Ministry. It sets out the main recommendations to focus attention on the risk factors at home, as well as how it would be reasonable to agree between the employer and the employee, what costs the employer will cover, what conditions he will allow, and how the registration of teleworking will be agreed. There has been a debate on whether the guide is sufficient or whether it should be taken to some level of legislation. There is no such agreement at present, but in trialogues with trade unions and employers, this issue occasionally raises, especially now, during the COVID-19 crisis. At the time when we made this guide, before the crisis, it was meant to be more broadly, due to the general trend in the growth of teleworking. As rapid an increase as it was during the spring emergency, and it is now, in the autumn, because it is likely to be amplified again, it was not before. I do not rule out that there is also a real need to make a specific amendment to the law, but perhaps a decision at government level or at ministerial level, which would provide a more precise framework and a more precise procedure for how to talk about ensuring safety in the case of teleworking, too. In this draft, the focus has indeed been on overall risk analysis, which may be a little about standardising the level of analysis, comparability, so that the main concerns and key risk factors in a given area are clearly identified. The aim is to facilitate, on the one hand, employers' activities and work in this area and, on the other hand, to improve overall safety.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U180	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U181	Thank you for introducing the bill. Of course, safety at work is important for both the employer and the employee. But how much will these changes increase the employer's burden of drawing up risk analysis and also using the database? Employers are very different in size. It may not be so difficult for a large organization, it may be more burdensome for a smaller one. What is the difference between today's situation and today's situation, which workload will be in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U182	Thanks for asking. After all, the aim is precisely to reduce the administrative burden on both the state and businesses, to show, through the information system, certain base points, the key points where the employer should think about it, and by that the employer himself would need to do less preliminary work and to invent a so-called bicycle, because the aim is rather the opposite. There are certainly institutions and companies for which this is an additional burden at the beginning, but in principle the direction is rather the opposite in order to provide as much support as possible from the state for this analysis. As has been said, the aim is to improve safety at work as a whole. This is a clear interest of both the employer and the employee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U183	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U184	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, good waitress! Ensuring safety at work and fewer accidents are essential. Unfortunately, we have statistics that there are too many fatal accidents. This is a very necessary bill. When you answered Mr Riisalo's question, you said that it is more of a tool, and indeed it also gives economic operators the opportunity to pay attention and to spot the risk. At the same time, you pointed out that there would be an increase in fines. Can you specify once more numerically and percentagely how much they rise? If I understand correctly, the rise in the company's fine rate was still very significant. I'm not saying it's wrong, but why don't you just elaborate on the protocol?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U185	Thank you for your question. Indeed, in cases where the guidelines of the Labour Inspectorate are not complied with, the risk assessment is either not prepared or not followed, the safety requirements are knowingly ignored. Today, a fine of between EUR 1300 and EUR 3200 can be imposed on a legal person under the law, then up to EUR 32000. According to the law, it would also have been possible to increase this amount from head to head to EUR We didn't want to go that far. However, reviewing the rates in a situation where these amounts have been fixed for 10 to 15 years seemed appropriate and reasonable. These, of course, have also been negotiated with employers, trade unions, other parties. Ensuring safety at work, as you rightly pointed out, is a concern and a common goal for everyone. Unfortunately, accidents, all kinds of health damage and concerns that this entails (there is a real increase in the burden on the hospital system, the health system and the same employers), there must be considerably more in Estonia than there should be reasonable arrangements for working life, not to mention fatal situations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U186	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U187	Good manager! Dear Minister, I read this law and see § 12 "General requirements for health and safety at work" in point 2: "An employer may not allow an employee who lacks the necessary expertise and skills... " I think that as an entrepreneur, I have been employing people for years and training them to have these skills while working in my company. What could it possibly create in the market that if you don't have the appropriate education, you can't be hired again if you're going to work for the first time since school? If there is no first experience, it means that it is very difficult for a young person to get to work. If an elderly person may want to change jobs, specialty or something, but doesn't have any previous experience, then I, as an employer, can't hire him either. How can such a sentence be interpreted? In certain areas, it is very clear that when there is special work, dangerous work, it is understandable. But I don't know, for example, if someone wanted to be a journalist, but they haven't worked as a journalist before, why can't they hire him?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U188	Yes, the goal is that the employer really instructs the employee in advance, talks about possible occupational health risks, the principles of compliance with safety requirements. Of course, the question is that "must not be allowed to go to work" does not mean being employed [at all], that is to say that a person who has not already been prepared in the field of education or with a particular employer or another employer could not, by so-called attempt and error, start working in a situation where this work could be dangerous for him. This does not prevent someone from being recruited, including a young person, but it assumes that before a young person is given the opportunity to handle, for example, a blade, to work with a potential health risk, the employer has a duty in advance to make sure that the person is capable and able to do so, and he must, of course, instruct the person accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U189	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U190	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This draft will increase the level of employer and employee liability in the working environment. Please explain for a moment the mechanism whose liability will be reduced as a result.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U191	No one's liability rate is falling, but it is still increasing in both cases. Once I come back to that last question. Sorry I'm doing this! If I am not mistaken, the Article 12 (2) read out by Aivar Kokk is literally the same in current law. There's no change.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U192	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U193	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The transfer from the grand hall of the Riigikogu is monitored and people, contractors, are interested in it. Right now, the person who asked to ask you as a competent person a question that is not directly related to this bill, but indirectly, yes. By making the working environment safer and avoiding accidents, we actually, to some extent, also prevent occupational diseases. The caller's question was: Does the Ministry have a plan to change anything in the near future and to make sure that the professional sufferers also get relief? There are court battles in Viljandi, where the weaker side is a person who is a professional. If you cannot answer now, then suddenly you will answer me in writing. But if you know anything, if you have a plan to deal with it, then suddenly you answer, and this person hears the answer directly from the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U194	Thank you for your question. When we are talking about accidents and occupational diseases, several governments have addressed this issue, including this one. We have negotiated in a tripartite way the principles of how the compensation procedure for sick leave could be changed in the event of accidents, which, in turn, would perhaps motivate employers to make an effort in this view to avoid accidents in their environment. The current government is not likely to launch the insurance scheme for direct or occupational accidents and occupational diseases. However, certain changes will be introduced step by step to ensure a safer working environment, both in terms of occupational diseases and accidents at work, on the one hand, by increasing the awareness of the employer and worker through risk assessments and by improving possible compensation mechanisms, which would increase the financial motivation to ensure a safe and health-friendly environment for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U195	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U196	Thank you. I'm still reading the law. It is written here that § 12 is amended and worded as follows, and then given there these points. If your reply to the words "no necessary" were to include "knowledge of health and safety at work, expertise," this text would make sense, but if it is missing, "health at work" and "safety at work" are in a separate part of the sentence, it does not concern this first part. Maybe we should rethink this sentence so that everyone can understand it in the same way. Otherwise, we will create a situation where, I think, 30% of people cannot be employed because the law has to be enforced.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U197	Thank you for your question. However, I will stick to my updated reply, i.e. that § 12 (2) is also in the current law, the content of § 12 (2) will not change. This § 12 was introduced here in its entirety, since there are certain additions to the various paragraphs, there are certain movements in paragraphs 3 to 9. Some of them are new, some of them are existing, some of them are moving, but a specific § 12 (2) applies literally to the current law. It has not been an obstacle to the recruitment of young people or to the provision of labour in any other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U198	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U199	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. Today we are also working on the health and safety at work law as the next item on the agenda. I very much believe that the law on health and safety at work can be significantly improved. But if, as your politician, you should appreciate what is currently the most critical of time, does it not seem to you that the Riigikogu is dealing with the issue of compensation for sick days initiated by social democrats today, so that, in this situation in society, in the health crisis, where we have the second wave of the Coronavirus very much, it would certainly have been necessary to make even more rapid steps to make the changes that are needed to curb this health crisis and reduce its effects some time ago? How can it be that the government coalition supports this draft, but that draft, which has been presented by the Social Democrats and which is even more time-critical, does not support it? What is your assessment of this as a politician?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U200	Thank you for your question. The issue of sickness benefit is certainly also topical. In Estonia, between the fourth and the eighth day of 2009 there is a procedure for compensation by the employer, starting from the ninth day of the sickness fund. There are also certain differences depending on the form of the disease sheet. Could it be changed to compensate for previous sick days? In principle, I agree, including employers and trade unions, with the principle that a temporary agreement could be made, for example, from the second day on. Rather, it is opposed to starting from day one, fearing certain risk behaviour and compensation for non-target sick days, particularly when viewed by employers. But, of course, any such amendment will have a clear budgetary impact, as will the bill you have proposed, for which it was quite large. This must also be taken into account in a situation where, as we know, the state budget next year is already at a relatively high disadvantage. In any case, I recognise those employers who have already decided to compensate for previous sick days from the first to the third, or otherwise. It certainly contributes to preventing the spread of the virus and to tackling diseases and health problems more generally. When we are talking about the sickness-day system, what is there to deny, as I referred to before, this system has been in place for 11 years, which is not a new situation and it is not the first time that different viruses are circulating in Estonia. Undoubtedly, encouraging people to stay at home with health concerns is an appropriate and sensible measure. We did this in the spring as a temporary solution to the emergency situation and, in view of the future here, it would also make sense in my opinion. However, as I referred to, these issues could be said, could have been dealt with exactly the same way in the previous four years and in the previous 12 years. These concerns, as well as the trade union observations-proposals, are not new at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U201	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U202	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm trying to read what these different effects are. They're pretty vague. Why are there no more specific metrics here? Let's get one thing. Every day, even today, there are 21,800 employees on the sick page, with an accident at work of 687 today as well. For example, in five years, when we adopt this bill and this information system for working life is in place, what kind of measure could it be? What kind of meter would that be in five years? 687 people are out of business every day because of an accident at work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U203	Thank you very much for your question. Improving safety at work in general depends on the behaviour of all of us. It depends on the legislator, depends on the government, depends on public authorities, such as the Labour Inspectorate, and naturally also depends on the behaviour of employers, entrepreneurs and residents. The creation of risk analyses alone, of course, does not automatically ensure a reduction in the number of people requiring sick days, but the performance and follow-up of risk assessments on both sides will certainly contribute. Indeed, this explanatory memorandum to the draft law does not deal with a specific number. The only thing that can naturally be said in the principle is that the smaller, the better. The Labour Inspectorate, in cooperation with the labour market sector of the Ministry of Social Affairs, has also made certain forecasts, certain models of what is the current volume, which have been the trends that have been these objectives. But I don't think I'm going to say these numbers in Parliament right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U204	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U205	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Your last narrow answer forces me to ask again and more about it. Employer and employee responsibility in the work environment increases. I understand they're trying to reduce sloppyness, recklessness, excessive risk-taking. That's very reasonable. As Mr Ernits gave a very good example of a relatively large number of accidents at work, I wonder whether this draft could in future lead to greater contact between insurance companies and the industry.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U206	Indeed, it has been pointed out here that there is an increase in inclusive liability, in some respects due to legal obligations (this is the side of the risk analysis, which is now mandatory, but is now in a new form), and similarly there is a certain part of it that concerns, in particular, suppliers of services on the basis of a debt contract and other such contracts. It also concerns changes in the levels of fines imposed by both a natural person and a legal person. In this view, responsibility is really growing. Will there be more use of insurance companies now? I do not see such a direct link between one and the other, but of course these opportunities can continue to be used in the Republic of Estonia. However, the aim and goal is really not that there should be insurance, if something should happen, but that the aim is to make sure that accidents are kept to a minimum, to the minimum possible and that the state, businesses in the private sector and all people contribute to it, are workers or are service providers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U207	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U208	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The development of a second set of amendments to the draft is ahead. Similarly, the third item on the agenda today discussed the amendment of the Pension Insurance Act that, when the Social Insurance Board starts receiving information from the pension register, it also means IT development. The solution of the second pillar, the referendum, basically all the things we decide to do in the public sector, to a greater or lesser extent, concern IT developments and expenditure on them. We have, I don't know, child surgeons, neurosurgeons or hematomas around 20. We can move them to some areas or major hospitals, we can increase or reduce the service volume, but the number of doctors is in place. Similarly, the resource of IT people has been fixed at some point in time. If all these changes are made in the next few months, is there any assurance in the Ministry of Social Affairs that this will not be behind the lack of IT resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U209	Thank you for your question. It is true that the public sector depends very heavily on IT solutions, often with regard to the deadlines for entry into force, this issue must be taken into account. With regard to the things you referred to, particularly the development of the second pillar of my sphere of activity, as well as the development of the information system for working life, the Health and Well-being Information Systems Centre has more broadly, I think several dozen smaller or larger developments in different sections, the development of STAR in the field of Social Insurance Board, some minor changes concerning SKAIS1 and SKAIS2, as well as major changes in the area of health work, I can confirm that these developments are being carried out on a rolling basis, a rather large "road map" is planned, it is known. I have met with the heads of all institutions on this issue, including the Technical Manager. As a matter of fact, no one has brought me up as a problem with the lack of IT resources. It is undoubtedly an opportunity for the IT sector to earn bread and contribute. I believe that there is a sufficiently capable IT community in Estonia, both in the private sector and in the public authorities, so that we can ensure that all these things are successfully launched.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U210	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U211	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. In your answer to my previous question, you made it to 11 years ago when no one knew anything about COVID-SARS-2 or even dreamed of it, even though science fiction shows such scenarios from similar pandemics. Comparing this situation, which was up to this pandemic experience, with previous situations is not really adequate. You'll understand that yourself. My question continues to be that if, more than a month ago, the Health Board clearly said that one of our main problems at some point was the workplace, i.e. the fact that people went to work sick and started new fires from which the virus spread, then why the solution you proposed maybe, if it goes well, will start to work from 1 January, why we do not already have this solution today, whether it is temporary, either on the first day or on the second day. Why have you not done anything as the minister responsible for this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U212	Thank you for your question. However, I am going back to the earlier time to begin, because you referred to it. No, I don't think there have been any concerns about this for 12 years. Last 12 years, ministers of the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party were responsible for health in the Republic of Estonia. None of them considered it necessary to make this change. It's been a chance. In this view, however, I maintain the view that I personally would have supported the reform of the system much earlier. Pandemics and various concerns have existed in Estonia before; they will come in the future. Secondly, as I referred to earlier, I also support early reimbursement of sick days in the principle. I have put forward certain proposals. I also understand very well that the government and Parliament must look at the budget as a whole. We have allocated EUR 143 million extra money to the Health Insurance Fund next year, a total of 540 million over four years, this year alone in the order of 100 million. In the same way, we have directed extra money through the Health Board precisely to control the epidemic. We have done a lot of support measures concerning the cultural sector and the business sector. In fact, the Estonian state has contributed quite well, quite strongly, to overcoming the COVID-19 pandemic. This is also demonstrated by our comparatively good status when looking at the level of infection in European countries and this ranking. Last but not least, it is not COVID-SARS-2, but it is SARS-COV-2.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U213	We are taking a short break because we have received a request from the Group of the Social Democratic Party to extend the plenary session today until two o'clock. I must therefore put it to the vote. The minister can sit down for a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the request of the Group of the Social Democratic Party to extend today's plenary session until two o'clock. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U214	38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, no respondents or abstentions. The session has been extended until two o'clock. I would like to ask the Minister again, let us proceed with the item on the agenda. Peter Ernits, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U215	Good manager! Good waitress! There are currently 48 officials in the Labour Inspectorate who are passing by companies. I understand that, in fact, only 45% of the Estonian labour market is under control. Each official must visit at least two enterprises each week. In essence, Kuressaare, for example, is one and Rakvere is one; in smaller cities, there is an official on several cities, two or three cities. My question is whether or not the number of supervisors is currently sufficient in your opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U216	Thank you for your question. The short answer is that the manning of the Labour Inspectorate could certainly be greater in order to increase the supervisory capacity. There has also been the issue of pay, which last year was slightly reduced by the budget. This work is sufficiently demanding and also requires qualified staff, which in turn generally requires adequate pay. However, as far as the specific draft is concerned, it rather contributes precisely to the fact that more labour inspectorate resources would be released in order to carry out monitoring in particular, perhaps less should be spent on the exchange of data, on the transfer of information. As much as possible should be used for ICT solutions where it is possible to automate, do so, and that is precisely the possibility of drawing up risk analyses and guidelines in the information system for working life. As a result, the ability of the Labour Inspectorate will hopefully be greater in the future, namely for monitoring to be necessary and more targeted on the ground, i.e. for specific activities or areas of activity. I hope that this as a whole will also help to improve Estonia's safety at work as such.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U217	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U218	Thank you. Good Tanel! That's the kind of thing I'm asking. I've read this bill on a diagonal scale. Does this bill change.. I realized that a little change in the work of the labour dispute committees as well? Or have I misunderstood?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U219	Dear Kalvi Tough! As much as I hate to say it, I'm afraid you've misunderstood. This bill does not contain this point. It was actually a separate bill, indeed. You have probably read so actively the various drafts submitted by the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U220	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Priit Sibula, member of the Social Affairs Committee, to serve as the second rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U221	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister presented this draft to the Commission on 9 November. In addition to the Minister, Seili Suder was the head of the working environment of the Labour and Pension Policy Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs at the meeting of the Commission. There was not as long and as substantive a debate in the Commission as we have been here, although there were some issues outside the draft. However, the members of the Commission also had questions. One of the questions was whether this analysis is a new obligation, whether and how much it burdens employers, whether this analysis has been mandatory and whether the analysis also concerns mental health. The Minister answered the question of a good colleague, Signe Riisalo, that risk analysis is not a new obligation in itself, but that it will be transferred to the working life information system in the future and that it will be more systematic and the risks will be better monitored. The subject of mental health is also part of the analysis. This is certainly important in addition to physical hazards. The second question that arose was also in the large hall, it was about the level of fines. We later received a separate reply that there has really been no change in the level of fines in the various laws at some point in time. For example, in the Trade Union Act, these are fine rates since 2002, in the Maritime Labour Act since 2014, in the Employment Contracts Act since 2009, the Workers' Trustee Act was adopted in 2006 together with the fine rates and the Community-wide Employee Inclusion Act was adopted in 2005. Consequently, these fine rates were substantially increased. We decided to bring this draft before you in committee. If the first reading is completed today, as proposed by the Commission, we can continue to deal with it in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U222	Thank you very much. Hard question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U223	Thank you, Vice-Chairman of the sitting. Good Priit! Here's the question. On today's agenda, we have two draft laws amending the Law on Safety at Work, one initiated by the Government, the other, item 9, is initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. In the Commission's view, this draft 257, which is currently under way, should move forward quickly because it needs to be done. I'm sure it is. But I'm gonna ask you a little proactively. This second draft is also within the remit of the Social Affairs Committee, the 244th draft law, which is more time-critical. In order for the same thing that we are all sitting here with masks to be ignored or hindered by coronavir, the second draft, which we are discussing today on item 9, should be as important as it is. But that is what the Commission decides not to support. Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U224	We certainly did not deal with this under this item. I am not answering for a very long time, so we can quickly go to this next item and we can deal with it seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U225	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U226	Thank you. Good Priit! My question is simple: what obligations will be added to employers if they are added?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U227	As I said, the most important obligation, the preparation of an analysis, was also in the past, but now companies simply have to start doing this in the information system.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U228	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. It is possible to make speeches on behalf of the political groups. There's no call request. The negotiations are closed. The lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 257 be completed. No other proposals have been received. In that case, the deadline for tabling amendments shall be 5.15 p.m. on 1 December. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U229	We will consider the draft law amending the Financial Management Act of the local government unit initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on the next item, No 8. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur for first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U230	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 4 and 10 November, the Finance Committee prepared a draft law amending the Financial Management Act of the local government unit for the first reading. As you will remember, by adopting this year's additional budget, we gave local authorities the right and opportunity to increase the loan burden to 80% of the operating revenue for this year and next year. If you look at today's situation, the debt burden is not high in most municipalities, but there is more than one municipality on the border. In this context, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the subject and proposes that the loan burden could be 80% of the revenues of the core business up to 2024, and then a 5% reduction of goods each year, i.e. 75% in 2025, 70% in 2026, 65% in 2027 and 60% in 2028. As we know, next year there will be municipal elections. Many municipalities are trying to make an effort in the year of the elections and to make more investments, which is certainly very important also in today's economic situation, where private investors' investments have been drastically reduced, and certainly next year there will be fewer risks due to the corona virus. It would then be possible for both the state and local governments to invest more, but it would not be possible for the new power to come to the local government next autumn and in a year's time, 20% will have to go back in the loan burden. The day-to-day work and work of the municipality would certainly suffer. In order to mitigate this risk, such a proposal from the Committee on Monetary Affairs as a legislative amendment has reached this hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U231	Thank you very much. Rock Hard, please question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U232	Thank you. Aivar! It is certainly right that local authorities are given more access to loans. My question is, what is the state of play today, how many local governments would have now, who would have this problem if we did not adopt this law. It certainly doesn't happen to everyone, I've heard about a couple of three municipalities. Can you tell us how many municipalities would have a problem if this law was not passed or if this amendment were not made? Can you tell what these municipalities are, whether they are larger cities or smaller rural governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U233	There's less than ten of them at the moment. There are municipalities, I'll see where it's from 44% to over 70%. I can send you this chart so you can look at every municipality in particular. But the most important thing is that we do not know what budget will be adopted next year, how much loan burden is planned for next year. Right here is the risk. There can be no situation in which municipalities with next year's budget will take out loans at the 70-80% limit and then need to reach 60% immediately in a year's time. There aren't many, three with a bigger number, 50% with three more. Here's Viljandi, Türi, Paide, I'm gonna take it from here in a row, this table is really big and wide. But I can send you this chart.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U234	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U235	Thank you for the floor. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This is certainly a necessary bill in the situation where we are now. My question is more of a broader political nature. Your home party wanted to write a budget balance requirement into the Constitution a few years ago. You have been very conservative on this subject. We have also seen, we have also seen, that there have been municipalities that have not always been over-responsible with the budget and that there have been serious problems with financial management. Now that you have decided to relax these rules, have you also had any concerns that there are potential risk factors here, because too big loans are being taken that can't be served afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U236	Thank you. If you read this bill in more detail, you can see that the risk has been mitigated. There is no way to increase the loan burden by more than 80% instead of 60%, although 80% is currently in force. In fact, the question is that when the additional budget was introduced in spring, it was only introduced for two years. And here's the risk. If this limit is 80% for any municipality next year and 2022 should pay back the money and have to reduce the loan burden by 20% at the same time, then there is a risk. That is why this transition to a return of 5% to 60% has been extended to 80%. At the moment, it is necessary to give an opportunity for economic recovery, because if the municipality needs to make some kind of investment in the next two or three years, today's construction prices make sense to do so now. I can give an example from Jõgeva municipality that the estimated cost of changing street lights was EUR 1 million without VAT, but the offer was 640000 or 650000 or a third cheaper. By this, you can order more work or do other things with the same resources. There are two sides to this bill: one is to revive the economy, and on the other hand, the risks that you have asked to local governments not to face financial difficulties, but to return a smooth debt burden to 60%.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U237	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U238	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am honored to be a member of one of the municipal councils that this bill concerns. We've also discussed borrowing, really, the maximum limit is reached. The laws are in force, they have not been changed any more, everyone knows very well in the municipalities what the situation must be achieved at the moment, then all plans have been made in such a way that the next year and the next year will be saved and managed without this law. I wonder what this justification is for this law. Do we have reason to believe that the current laws do not apply or work in any way, that local governments do not comply with these rules? Or what was your input to make this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U239	Thank you for a good question. Let me remind you again that this opportunity was actually given to the municipalities in April this year. It's very important. Secondly, what we argued about at this table at length at the extra budget: 70 million plus 30 million plus another 5 million, by which the municipalities were given investment capacity, plus another 30 million to prevent the corona crisis. A total of 135 million were distributed to municipalities, i.e. the investment capacity was increased. Very many municipalities were not prepared for this; there were no projects. They have completed the projects today and construction procurement is already very likely to have been carried out, as they will have to be in the contract by the middle of January next year. Investments will take place next year. No one in the municipalities could take this situation into account when they made the budget this year. At the same time, it is certainly the case that, if there is an opportunity to increase the loan burden, the work will be done if there is somewhere where the kindergarten needs to be completed, somewhere in the school, somewhere in the sports building. In order to be able to make these too, this 80% chance was given. But let's admit that we didn't think this bill through, that in two years' time, 20% will have to be repaid immediately. We may be members of well-qualified local government councils here, but the very difficult situation is in any local government, when it is said that 20% will have to be paid back tomorrow. I cannot tell you how well the procedure for next year's budget in councils has been thought out, for example, because these procedures are still coming, I think, in December. Perhaps some coalitions in the council today are making the decision that they are trying to take the maximum loan burden and that they are building things that have been planned for a long time and are planned for the next or the next year, but something important may not be done. If, then, the elections next autumn will result in a change of power and the next ones sitting at the table will have to go forward, but they will have a 20% obligation to pay back the loan burden immediately. Someone or something's gonna have to do it. In order to avoid such a risk, it is proposed that 80% of the loan burden will be allowed until 2024 and that 5% of repayments will be made every year thereafter. As an entrepreneur, I really did propose this, I am one of the proposers, so that such a solution would come. I am also in a coalition in one municipality today, and the Chairman of the Council We have no such problem, I admit, we will not go anywhere near the border next year. However, regardless of this, we must make sure that no local government is put at risk. Yes, those who are at risk of asking for it are 10 to 15, but if we take a percentage, this is a pretty high percentage of the local governments of Estonia. I believe that no person living in some municipalities should suffer because we did, I admit, actually fingernails. I should have known and noticed that in the spring. But since the additional budget was literally made in two weeks, we admit that there were things that were not anticipated or foreseen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U240	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U241	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Aivar! Indeed, with the additional budget, this amendment was made so that local governments could borrow more, and it also came from this, let's say it was taken out of the balance of the entire budget because of COVID. Help or recall, this is not the content of this draft, but to some extent it is. What, then, will happen in 2025, for example, will this bill have a significant impact on the balance of the country's share if, for example, the city of Tallinn borrows its percentage? Can we have a problem with that at some point? If it doesn't, it's fine, but enlighten me a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U242	Thank you. If you look at the analysis that was in this debate, there is no great risk to the state budget. This amount is so low in financial terms, which could come with this increase in the loan burden. Anyway, in the first two years, it's that if someone wanted to borrow so much. And whether this extension is one or two years, we've calculated that in 2028 everything will be in the parking lot again. This amount is not such as to disbalance the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U243	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U244	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Is there any deeper analysis to reach just 65% in 2027? What can be relied on so that we can actually reach 65% in 2027?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U245	In my opinion, the law is to be enforced. Today we are giving the opportunity not to go back in a 20% step, but in a 5% step. We are giving the chance that the next council will know this going back and there is no way for them to move past it or around it. The Ministry of Finance is very clear (I have a table on the table for all municipalities, it is so long) following all the major investments and all the decisions, they go through the Ministry of Finance. Someone's budget can go into a negative, red, even before the loan burden goes to the ceiling, there are different conditions for borrowing, it's not just budget volume. I don't see the risk today. If someone used to be like this, they started to come back backwards, but so far, as I know, all the municipalities have been able to serve their loans.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U246	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U247	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Didn't get a chance to hear your presentation from the start. Maybe that's what we've been talking about. You said that you yourself proposed this change.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U248	I was one of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U249	Okay. But how many of these municipalities are there, or has anyone really approached [you], who has still made it so high in a little more than half a year? Is it a real need from a field, or is it such a preventive measure to now give a signal that you take a bold loan? Which way does it lean more?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U250	Thank you. The Calvi asked a similar question. There are fewer than ten municipalities that could be exposed to this threat at present. But we don't know what the municipal budget is next year. The budget is still being put together and it must have been handed over to the councils during November, and it will be the first time to see what investments the one, the other or the third municipality is planning for next year. You, as a long-term head of government, have, I think, also experienced that there are still attempts to increase the volume of certain investments for election years. According to the current law, it is also possible to create an 80% loan burden next year. The idea behind this draft is precisely that 2022, if there may be another government coalition in power, there should not be a situation where 20% of the debt burden has to be withdrawn at the same time. We have extended 80% of the burden by two years, plus a reduction in the loan burden by 5% each year in order to mitigate the risks that may be faced by the six-seven municipalities that I see today in the table, where the situation is on the border. But I would like to stress once again that we do not know how much investment was made thanks to the 135 million support that came from the additional budget. Secondly, we should not create a situation for any local government that, if we can get money from the European Union for certain projects, we will not have the capacity to put more co-financing on our own. To mitigate all these risks also by 2022, this is the objective of this draft. It is literally meant to mitigate the risks of local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U251	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U252	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm still trying to understand. The previous answer to my question was very good, but it assumes that the municipalities will be managed in an irresponsible way. As far as I am concerned, no such plan for the administration of the municipality is being made to come into conflict at one point with the law and not to be able to carry out the duties. Can't this bill have that effect now? For example, the municipality, which is in a tight spot, needs to plan a refund in such a way that it can do this nicely the next year and the next year. But this extension also gives these municipalities the opportunity, in the'second view', to perform brilliantly in the elections. I mean, it gives quite a bit of breathing space just for the election period. This bill doesn't happen to have that idea behind it, so the election can do well with more money and get out of trouble, does it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U253	Thank you. I will answer the last question: it is not. But if I know correctly, Türi now has a load of 50,68%, Paide has 54,38%, so they're actually at risk, if you look at all the components that are needed for the loan burden. As an economic person, I dare say that it is reasonable to invest for a simple reason now: prices are good. On the türi ready, if I know the right way to know the sportshouse. We also have a sports building in Jõgeva municipality. I know you have a very good bulkhead there that you're going to see, a soundproof pushy bulkhead. But these investments are now being made because it makes economic sense. If it can be done at a good price, it will be taken out of debt and built and ultimately it will be decisions for the benefit of the people of the region. On the one hand, we help entrepreneurship, we support the construction sector, the construction sector, the commercial sector gets a job in the area, and the service staff gets a job if there's a construction going on there. In the other way, the work that may be planned for the next, the next and the next year will be done, and will now be done at a better price. I have given a dozen examples in this hall, I think, that at the beginning of the century they wanted to build the Tallinn highway as 2+2. Paide to the cross, Mäo to the cross, it will soon be finished, but Tartu will be looking forward to it. Today you can build ten kilometers [with this money] with which you would have been built. If a loan is taken in time, if the economy needs a boost, that decision must be made. Once again, on this issue, we have never thought that anyone would abuse this opportunity. I do hope that all the councils of local governments that ultimately make these decisions (not municipal governments or municipal governments) will think in real and economic terms, rather than attract oxygen. Those municipalities that pull oxygen down, I think, are not going the right way, because they never know what problem or problem might occur in any year and then they need available resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U254	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U255	Thank you. Good waitress! I understand that my question is perhaps not exactly about this change, but it is basically about managing the finances in the local government. We know that the Fund finances quite a number of activities, particularly in the social field. It is a very sealed money, in the sense that the local government carries out its tasks, but there are limited resources to carry out certain tasks, as the resources of the given state budget allow, such as replacement care, services for disabled children and other things. My question is to you as a long-term self-government policy: how much does it really hinder the management of financial resources and the good organisation of social services?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U256	Thank you, Signe! Yeah, I've been in government policy for 31 years. It's a double-edged sword. On the one hand, it should really be that there is one line and that's it. But I'm looking at Helmen, who, like you, has been working in this area for a very long time, and certainly as an example to many of us. Unfortunately, in all municipalities, this concept is certainly not uniform; it depends on the council and on the composition of the council. There is a social side somewhere, and there will certainly be more money from the budget, somewhere there is education, somewhere there is entrepreneurship. That depends very much on the coalition. I do not know how many of the municipalities where one list is in power alone, apart from the city of Tallinn. Most of the time, the coalition is agreed. If the money is to be freed up completely, which I support most of the time, then it should include the minimum below which things in certain areas should not be left behind. The decision-making power should certainly be greater for the council than is currently provided by the state budget, but the other side should be that these and those services must be provided by the municipality, and there must also clearly be a minimum amount per person or for the whole of the area to be provided by the municipality from its own budget. Otherwise, if the education sector is usually more than 50% municipal, it will be said that we will close all these things tomorrow. How reasonable would that be? I don't think we'd support it in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U257	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U258	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm glad you touched on that. Look at the similar issues with my colleague Signe Riisalo and I. I am very pleased that this question has been answered. When you started reporting this bill, I was scared when you said there was going to be a local election and you could do nice things. Loan money and peer fire, they're gonna be over really fast, but then we're gonna have to live on. But you later explained that yes, it is to make sure that the next ones to be elected aren't in front of a broken trough if they have to start reducing this loan very quickly. I can agree with you on that. But I have a request that you send me this list. Since Signe asked the question and you answered it very thoroughly, I would ask for this list.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U259	Well, if I'm getting this right, you know, local government, how much credit burden is there, right?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U260	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U261	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! As we know, cooperation projects with the private sector, the so-called PPP projects, will also be included in the calculation of the debt burden of our municipalities. Especially the capital has made them. Do you have an overview of how many PPP projects have been carried out in Estonia as a whole by our rural municipalities? What is their more general impact on the loan burden of our municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U262	When I look at the finance board, I see that they've been used relatively little. Besides being used for schools in Tallinn, one municipality has built a kindergarten with a very good swimming pool. In the rest of the municipalities, I do not see such a comment back there that, in today's sense, the PPP project has been used. But, of course, there are other municipalities that have built sports buildings or complexes. I'm sure that's the way many municipalities look around. It's all relative, but the important thing is that even if you do this with a PPP project, you still have to make sure that you can pay the so-called rental money, whether we call it leasing, rent or loan, in the end, you still have to serve it. All these projects are accounted for in the Ministry of Finance by the so-called birdie there. It is not quite the case that if it is possible to borrow 80% of the loans, all municipalities would be able to take 80% of the loans. Can't, there are different conditions and possibilities. The capacity and repayment of the loan will also be taken into account in the borrowing process.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U263	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U264	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, If you're talking about pulling your breath off a loan here, of course, 80%, I dare say, it's still holding my breath. Having been serious about making some local government budgets, I know that this limit is actually at 60%, where it is no longer possible to pay back the loan at the end of the day, then the loan wheel will be transferred and the loan will have to be raised for repayment. I see this threat here in this sense, however, that the election year is coming, can be filled with a debt burden, and may equally remain under the obligation for the next council to pay back this loan miraculously, either with a new loan or with no money left for investments from own resources. But that's it. Let us hope that local governments are responsible. But my question. You said that prices were less expensive, but at the same time, as far as I know, interest rates have increased considerably. Have you discussed in the Commission how this will affect the municipality's long-term financial plan if it currently takes on more loans, but the money is much more expensive than before?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U265	Thank you. In economic terms, interest is certainly lower today than the fall in the price of construction. It's always about risk. I say, being the owner of one of the construction companies myself, that the fall in the price of construction is always associated with risk. You never know what tomorrow's price is. Today's market price can be like this, tomorrow's material prices will rise, and you're in a negative position. You will find out the price exactly when the construction contract is over and the offers are on the table. If the difference between the first two or three lower bids is 3%, 4% or 5%, then you know that this price makes sense. If the difference is more than 15%, according to the Public Procurement Act, the contracting authority is obliged to ask the potential contractor for a justification as to how he can offer so cheaply, whether he is not paying taxes or simply bluffing and failing to pay the latest invoices to subcontractors. So, according to the law in force, the contracting authority should pay double: first, the main contractor and, after that, the subcontractors are still running out. Once again, I will try to explain that the current law allows such a loan to be taken until the end of next year. There's no way in hell this is gonna happen right now. Our proposal for a correction is that if there were to be a municipality that abused it, it would not happen that they would have to go from 80% to 60% in 2022. I'm telling you, standing here on the remote, I'm sure no local government is gonna abuse it. But there's no way we can interfere with anyone's soul or council's decisions except for the local governments where we're at the council. In order to mitigate the risks, even the least risk, we have come from the Committee on Monetary Affairs with this proposal for improvement in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U266	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U267	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Since the questions in this Chamber also reflect whether this proposed change will in any way encourage more borrowing and lower the loan burden, if existing laws had been in force, could we ask the Cities and Municipalities Association or other parties how they will see whether the pace of debt reduction and this period are reasonable or if they have alternative proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U268	Thank you. This draft was also drawn up by the Cities and Municipalities Association. This situation may arise in certain municipalities when EU projects are co-financed. But we can ask the Commission, on behalf of the Commission, that is a natural action that has always taken place during the first and second readings, from the parties it concerns, we have always asked for an opinion. We Members of the Commission do not have that need. But we have to be responsible. If we have made a law that has come to this hall through our committee, and we see that there may be a risk to some local authorities, then we must mitigate this risk. It is our duty as the Committee on Monetary Affairs, with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U269	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U270	Thank you for the floor. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I understand that this really does not directly concern this draft, but nevertheless, I will come back to my first question. As chairman and statesman of the Monetary Commission, what do you think would have happened if it had been so that the Fatherland had managed to put the budgetary balance requirement into the Constitution in its own time? How would this relate to the law that we are currently dealing with here and to the law that we are going to deal with tomorrow, i.e. the state budget, where it is still light years away from balance? What would we have done about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U271	Thank you. I must admit that I do not know whether you were a member of the Riigikogu at the time of these discussions, I certainly was not, I was not in any political party at the time. People learn their whole lives and make adjustments when needed. If there was an economic crisis in the last decade, the decision was to be cut. After all, we can discuss whether this was the right decision or the wrong one, but we do not know the final answer for the simple reason: we do not know what would have happened if we had borrowed at that point. It was not possible to borrow at that moment, even for a simple reason: we wanted to join the euro zone and everything else was there. Today, the odds are different. Can't be the pope's pope. While the European Union as a whole, even Germany, which has always set an example for us with its budget side, has increased the loan burden, as a small island, it is somehow, I think, impossible for Estonia to be different. Or it's possible, it's always possible, but is that reasonable? When I say my personal opinion, the economy could be much, much more invigorated. The mistake is that in previous formations, whether in the Riigikogu or in the government, they did not dare to think any longer and prepare investment projects. Investment is still the way we can boost the economy. In the Riigikogu, we can only share the money that comes from business through taxes. We do not usually come from anywhere else, apart from the European Union, but it is also taxpayers' money, on the one hand, our taxpayers in the Member States of the European Union, on the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U272	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U273	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! The second pillar of the pension for the following year, after a major dispute, is known to become voluntary. There are certainly people who take out their money, pay taxes, and the money goes into consumption. Have you calculated whether all of this has an impact and what its impact on the local governments' income base?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U274	The right answer is that this has not been taken into account in next year's state budget (this is not what we are discussing at the moment; tomorrow we will be discussing it). The state budget came to the Riigikogu before the Supreme Court had made its decision. At the moment, the state budget only takes into account that the state's contributions to the second pillar have been suspended until 1 September next year. What amount will be taken out on 1 September next year, which could affect next year's revenues, is today to predict, I think, very difficult. We know that the pension pillar has an average of 6,000 buckets and 75% has 2,000 or 3,000 or less. This amount that is withdrawn is not large, and it is 20% that the income tax is paid. There will certainly be a small amount of support for municipalities in different regions, but this amount cannot be much. If you count 2022, our majority of municipalities live not only on their income, such as Tallinn, but the state still compensates the municipalities for the loss of income. This increase in income tax can only give rise to a budgetary impact on local governments for one year, and it will not produce it for longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U275	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U276	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have had this kind of thing from the previous crisis to date in ten years, called the merger of local governments, or whatever, right, administrative reform or not. It is expected that we will continue to have some decisions to make between the next elections and the next elections, because what was not good in this previous amendment should be corrected. This is not directly related to this issue, but in a broader sense. Is there any analysis that would assess the financial management of local authorities in the context of the administrative reform that has taken place so far? We assumed that local authorities would become stronger, more competent. How has financial management taken place in local governments in the context of this old reform? Is there an interim analysis? We should start doing the mid-term analyses that have actually happened in local governments since the previous administrative reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U277	Thank you. I don't have that kind of analysis to tell you the truth. We could ask the Treasury if anyone's done it. Financial management has certainly improved in accounting terms, thanks to the fact that in Estonia local governments have such accounting programmes, that I, as the Chairman of the Council, know what is going on and what is going on at all times. Budget management has improved considerably. The subject of mergers is certainly that the merged municipalities have not all been equal, with the same capabilities, I do not know any such cases, perhaps some are, but I do not know. If three, four or five municipalities joined, the financial capacity was better somewhere, it was worse. We note that the merged municipalities around the cities have still invested a great deal in this centre for all three years. At the same time, in the coming years, it will need to be balanced with the rest of the settlements, villages and regions within the limits of the municipality, whether on the educational side or on the social side. This analysis should certainly be carried out. I believe that, after the next local elections, there will be this balance within four years, so that those regions that may have been lagging behind and the centres that have been strengthened are being helped. Then we can start talking about the following decisions. I hope that the Riigikogu will not start talking about any forced mergers of local governments or any other kind in this composition, because at the moment, the solution should still be that this environment, which is united, can somehow take one step. After all, different regions are talking about the assembly of farms that took place in the 1950s and 1960s, but so far villages have not been able to reach agreements. I do hope that the councils and leaders of local governments will do everything in their power to develop their municipality or city equally and to create this sense of unity. This is certainly the most important thing for the region. In a year's time, the local authorities will see whether the people in power have done the job well or badly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U278	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions. It is possible to make speeches on behalf of the political groups. Lauri Western Forest on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U279	Ladies and gentlemen, This opportunity is undoubtedly very important for the municipalities and for the people that we have given them in this crisis: to borrow, to invest more. Indeed, the situation is that work tends to be low in some areas, both in construction and in other areas. This opportunity that we have given the municipalities is very good, it gives some breathing space. When we think about local governments, I dare say that the 79 municipalities that are in Estonia are quite well and responsibly managed, particularly in terms of financial management. I have not noticed, nor have I heard, that somewhere in the municipality there are problems with commitments that cannot be met. Yes, if we recall and look back in time, there have been, and there has been more of them, the further we go back in time. But in the meantime, both the Ministry of Finance and the Riigikogu have actually improved laws and their behaviour. I dare say, having also been the head of the municipality and being also a member of the municipal council, that the rules of financial management are quite well respected. If we look at today's situation that yes, municipalities are allowed to borrow up to 80% of the revenue from the core business, then I do not understand where this opinion comes from or where this information comes from, and I actually, let's be honest, didn't hear that problem either, that the municipalities are not going to repay the loan or that they are not going to be able to repay it. I have been in quite a number of debates, where we have looked at the monetary policy of a government that has the problem that the debt burden is allowed, at the usual maximum. Indeed, this crisis measure has given relief to this municipality, and these things have been well managed. In all these discussions, it does not matter whether it is an opposition or a coalition, whether it is an employee or a politician, it is all very clear that the commitments made must also be met and that these commitments must reach the normal rhythm or pre-crisis situation, which should continue after 2022. This means that the whole plan will be made responsibly. In short, without the draft we are debating here, both this municipality and, I think, very many other municipalities are able to cope very well with their commitments. It is therefore difficult to understand why we still need this bill. I do not think we need to bear in mind, here, those municipalities that have very low credit obligations, because they have no problem at all. I looked at the map of the municipality of Tartu. The parish of Kastre only had some sort of 6% loan liabilities. These municipalities don't have a problem. Rather, this bill is only necessary for those municipalities whose loan burden is close to maximum. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U280	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U281	I dare say, perhaps the reason for my corruption is that when I look at these municipalities, I see that they have one thing in common: there are people of one party in the coalition to exercise power. Isn't that a question hidden here somehow? We actually give these municipalities some breathing space, but quite frankly, we're just giving them the chance to do the local elections well. Otherwise, everything should be pulled back and fit in with the rules, but now there is an opportunity to spend, sensibly and perhaps even unreasonablely, in the run-up to the elections. And there may be quite the opposite effect, so if, after the elections, perhaps other parties form a power union, they may find it difficult. I think that here this result is possible in the same way and is actually possible in the opposite direction. I have a feeling that this'reverse' option has not been sufficiently analysed and evaluated in this draft. It is a time of crisis, we do not know what the economy is doing, what economic growth is, what the local government tax receipts numbers are. I have looked, by the way, at the budgetary forecasts or budgetary strategies for the following year for the same municipalities affected by this draft. They have quite, I dare say, optimistic tax revenue forecasts. I think this bill will contribute a little again to countering the elections, but in fact, we should still be responsible. Let us not give these opportunities to put the authorities in a difficult position in this crisis situation. I call, however, that, if there is a second reading, the Committee on Monetary Affairs could analyse it with this look and look at this bill, that the opposite situation might arise: that it is possible to make a fine investment for elections, and that this point or change will make it much more difficult for these municipalities to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-17_U282	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 282. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 1 December at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, There are eight minutes left until the end of the sitting, and we will most likely not be able to deal with the ninth item. Isn't that right? Would you like to speak further? I will take the President's break of 10 minutes, ladies and gentlemen, and that concludes today's session. Thank you. See you tomorrow!
