ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 12th working week of the 3rd plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, By decision No 564 of 20 April including the President of the Republic, Raul Siem has been appointed Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology. Today we have the opportunity to hear the oath of Minister Raul Siem. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U3	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U4	So, ladies and gentlemen, we can move forward as usual. Valdo Randpere, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U5	Yeah, I have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U6	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U7	The text of the Minister's oath of office, which has just taken his oath, was, in my opinion, somewhat flawed. He did not pledge allegiance to EKRE and its chairman, Mart Helme. I would like to add to this text. Thank you. [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U8	Thank you. Well, you must have some other oath text. But let's keep going. Now is the opportunity to hand over inquiries and drafts. The members of the Riigikogu do not wish to submit inquiries or drafts. Then the attention! The following information Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting of the support group for a transparent and credible electronic vote in this Chamber, convened by Kert Kingo. [[In the diner.]] Incoming check, please! 75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 26.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U9	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic to develop legislative changes to solve the problem of long-term maintenance burden', initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Ladies and gentlemen, on this item, each member of the Riigikogu is able to put one question to each of the rapporteurs and only the representatives of the political groups and committees can participate in the negotiations. So, first item: First reading of the draft decision 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic to develop legislative changes to solve the problem of long-term maintenance burden' submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please waitress a member of the Riigikogu Helmen Küti!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U10	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! My great calling and love is social work. The people who do this work, I think, are doing one of the most beautiful but also one of the hardest jobs in the world. That is why I wish them health and strength from this Riigikogu speaker today in this wonderful work. In the light of the above, I am very pleased to introduce to you the draft decision of the Riigikogu 149 "Proposaling the Government of the Republic to develop legislative changes to solve the long-term care burden." The Social Democrats handed it over on 17 February this year, and according to it, the government should develop concrete measures with funding to ease the current situation and to look at social work and health care, including informal care, as a whole and together. After all, the drafting of the state's budget strategy for next year will begin, and if no additional financial resources are planned, in 2021 there will be no change for the municipalities or people in solving these problems. Good fellows! The purpose of the draft decision of the Riigikogu before you is to allow human-centred and dignified welfare for all people who need it. The draft deals with eight issues that are currently being dealt with and proposes amendments to the Code. These proposals are: firstly, the need to increase public funding to improve access to services, with a view to allocating additional money to local authorities for the development and provision of social services; secondly, to reduce the own contribution of persons with care needs to pay for care services; thirdly, to define the minimum standard of living of the person receiving the service, i.e. the limit of income, the amount of money that a person has to receive after paying for the services; fourthly, to establish precise mandatory minimum requirements for social services to ensure equal and better access to care services across Estonia; fifthly, to ensure the quality and supervision of care services; sixthly, to integrate social and health services to improve people's livelihood and to provide more effective assistance; seventhly, to ensure that carers deserve the amount of care allowance, social guarantees and other support measures; eighthly, to ensure that there is a skilled workforce in the area of long-term care. 'Man is young temporarily. " That's what Louise Anike said in 1991. And Kai Saks has said, "Old is always the first time in life, it could be a beautiful journey. " It's a journey where you can't be afraid to grow old, where old age isn't a disease, it's a life cycle, or it's more accurate to say, even a part of the cost of life. And that period should be enjoyed, just like youth or middle age. Rudi Westendorp, one of the world's leading geriatric experts in medicine, wrote in his book Living Old without feeling old: "Less than a hundred years ago, the average life expectancy in Western countries was 40 years, now 80 years. And there is no end: the first person to live to 135 years of age has already been born. This is the most radical change in our society since the industrial revolution and, of course, many questions arise in this regard. " By the way, this perfectly written and boldly opening book of all aspects of old age is now also available in Estonian. And I'm sure when you read this book, you're looking at old age with a completely different, more enlightened look. I daresay. The eight proposals made by the Socialists are based on the principle that a home is the most important and important for a person. In order to be able to stay home as long as possible and spend your old age there, it is necessary to increase open care services and support all measures to take into account the individual's own wishes and self-sufficiency. It is better for people and cheaper for both the municipality and the state. These measures include home care, personal assistance and support services, home adjustment, from physical access to technical and smart innovative solutions, service houses, social transport, day care centres for both the elderly and dementias, and all the more so that people can live in their own homes. We are also talking about nursing homes, palliative care and hospital services if necessary, but these are all the next steps. I will give an example of Sipoo municipality in Finland, where older people, as well as demented people, are helped by robots at home to remember how to take medicines. They don't have to live in a nursing home if they can't take drugs on their own. At the right time, it's the drawer you need to take. The assistant robot will report it. At the same time, the information runs to the Social Services to see if everything's okay. In Finland, the social and health sector cooperates very much with universities and researchers, both in improving the quality of life of elderly people living at home and in maintaining their activity in general care homes. In this municipality, the goal is that 90% of people over 75 years of age live in their own homes. They do everything they can to make it at home. And believe me, they really can, because in Finland, it is the obligation to provide social services to people, and people's own participation is only their pension. To this end, of course, not all nursing homes need to be owned by the municipalities, but the municipality announces procurements for the purchase of places, also checking the quality and price ratio agreed in the contract, and this is done on a regular basis. We do not have to do what we do in Finland, Germany or the Netherlands. We can take the best practices from these countries and make an Estonian model that is decent, which is compatible with our opportunities and combines social work and health care, also ensuring that the care of the loved one remains, not forced, but if desired. The remuneration and social security of in-house carers would be guaranteed and their own health would not suffer as a result of hard work. The goal of our eight steps is that there is a long way between home and nursing home, there are many opportunities that will change as the need for help increases. The assistance provided at home must be able to pay, its good quality must be guaranteed and, most importantly, its availability must not depend on the place of residence, but must be equally guaranteed throughout Estonia. I am quite convinced that there are no people in the Chamber who do not know the problems that exist today in healthcare and welfare arrangements. This does not require special or higher education in this field. There are people in this hall who have experience in the work of the local government who have people in need of care or care for someone in their family or in their friends. The fact that the social sector has been underfunded for years, even decades, is not news either. This draft Riigikogu decision does not look for the reasons why it is, nor for who is guilty, but is invited to find solutions together. I'd be unfair to say nothing's been done over the years. I'm sure it is, but unfortunately it's a little bit tinkered in one corner and then in the other corner without seeing a bigger whole picture. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal sets out, together with references and sources, a long history and overview of the studies that have been carried out in this area and which all reach a common conclusion: namely, the conclusion that the recipient of the principal costs and liabilities is currently the recipient of the service and that his family's own contribution is increasing over the years. Children and grandchildren are the ones who pay for the difference. For example, the share of the recipient and his family has increased when paying for the place of the nursing home. It was 65% in 2010, 76% in 2016 and 80% in 2018. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, in 2018 people paid 53 million euros for nursing home services. It consisted of the pensions of the elderly themselves and the fees paid by children and grandchildren, which were set to offset the amount between the pension and the nursing home. At the same time, the state and local authorities spent 14 million euros on nursing home services. I bring the following data for comparison. In 2008, when the cost to the state and local authorities was 11 million, people paid a total of 17.5 million. In ten years, the cost of municipalities had increased by just EUR 3 million, while the amount of money that people would bear was EUR 35.5 million. This is also confirmed by the comparison when looking at how large it would be more accurate to say how small the public expenditure on long-term care in Estonia is than in other European Union countries. On average, countries spend 1.4 to 1.8% of GDP on financing long-term care. In Estonia, this figure is only 0.2 to 0.4%. In 2018, financing for long-term care accounted for approximately 0.4% of GDP in Estonia. When we compare Lithuania, Finland, Denmark and Sweden, we see that as of 2016, Lithuania spent 1%, Finland 2.2%, Denmark 2.5% and Sweden 3%. The World Bank has pointed out in its analysis that the costs of long-term care in the Estonian public sector must rise to at least 2 or 2.5% of GDP in order to improve the situation in our long-term care system. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, local governments and the state need additional funding of almost EUR 150 million to improve access to care services. This figure has also been expressed by Minister for Social Affairs Tanel Kiik, who is certainly aware of the situation and understands it very well. I think it's objectively correct. Today, there is too much pressure on the shoulders of family and carers, both financially and directly. The secret is not for anyone, either, that the poverty of older people is very high in Estonia. In June 2019, the Ministry of Social Affairs has carried out a study on "The economic coping and poverty of the elderly" and it is open to all. The Dementia Competence Centre Katre Pall has provided solutions to many problems and concerns that concern people with dementia. The concerns of the caretakers have been spoken at both Estonian and European level and have sought solutions with the team of MTÜ Eesti Omastetehooldus, i.e. Ivar Paimre, as well as with the NGO Estonian Caregivers' Association or Tiina Kangro. Thank you very much for this work. This topic is still more than ever seen and known throughout society. I have always had great respect for research and I think that decisions must be made on the basis of scientific arguments and knowledge of the situation. Let me just introduce a small part of the chronology of the development of long-term care, starting in 2002, when the development plan for social welfare was started for the years 2005 to 2015. This is to ensure that health and social work go hand in hand. In 2015, 2017 the Administrative Burden Task Force worked. In 2017 August, the government endorses the proposals for funding for initial maintenance relief measures for the years 2018 to 2021. In December 2017, the government endorses the recommendations of long-term care policy, the work of the Task Force. In 2018 the Ministry of Social Affairs put together the concept of long-term care on the basis of the work of the Task Force. In 2018 the government confirms this concept. 2019 get the Ministry of Social Affairs to make a detailed intervention plan on how to build up the long-term care system in Estonia. The 2020 January government confirms long-term care development plans. By the end of 2020, the Ministry of Social Affairs will present a draft law on long-term care. Only by the end of 2020! It's too late. Good fellows! We've been doing research, and we know what the problem is. We have the opportunity today in this Chamber to show with a vote that we want faster decisions, we want solutions to the current very worrying situation to be proposed by 1 January 2021. Briefly and summarily, once again, the ideas in our draft on how to make long-term care more human-centred. First, stay at home as long as possible with the help of self - support. The open care services offered are affordable, in other words, pensionable. Third, each person receives the right service to provide the help and support that he or she needs. Fourthly, health and social affairs go hand in hand and people are not being evicted from one system to another. Fifthly, similar opportunities and guaranteed quality across Estonia. Sixthly, if there is no way at home, then the place of the nursing home, if necessary, is valued for the pension. Seventhly, the work of the caretaker is honored, so that it is done, not by coercion, but by will. And by eight, the availability of educated, qualified staff and their salaries correspond to the work done. And finally, two more quotes from the beginning of the presentation: 'Man is young temporarily. ' 'Old is always the first time in life, it could be a beautiful journey. " It's a journey where you can't be afraid to grow old, where old age isn't a disease, it's a life cycle, or it's more accurate to say, even a part of the cost of life. And that period should be enjoyed, just like youth or middle age. And people should be treated equally by those who have children and those who do not have children. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U11	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U12	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! First of all, I would like to thank you for your meaningful report on the bill. You once noted there that you could create Estonia's own model. Do the Social Democrats who have initiated this draft have a clear vision of what this Estonian model could be like?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U13	Thank you very much. Dear fellow official, Aivar, first of all, I would like to thank you very much for answering one question in the supplementary budget procedure. When the question was asked about the elderly, their care and the costs of their loved ones in this regard, you said very seriously and very rightly that the elderly who have children and those who do not have children have been treated unequally in Estonia. Now to your question. Yes, the Social Democrats actually have this model. We have presented this to the government, perhaps with you, I hope, proposals that should be included in this model. I'm sure we're ready to bet on it. I would very much like this model, which concerns the elderly, our dignified citizens, to whom we actually owe a great deal, to be not party-based, world-view-based, but human-centred, holistic, and so that all political parties can give their best ideas in shaping it. I do not think that what the Socialists have proposed is the only right thing that cannot be improved. It is certainly possible to improve, it is certainly possible to argue, it is certainly possible to discuss, and that is how this model of Estonia will come about if all political parties contribute there and the government engages all political parties, regardless of the coalition and opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U14	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You have put forward very good proposals to the government, but the question that concerns me is that, in principle, it is a public secret that welfare institutions are actually a good source of income for their owners. Perhaps the state should put the brakes on raising the welfare fee, so that it is based on the principles of social welfare and is not the source of enrichment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U16	Thank you. With regard to the remuneration of nursing homes, this is certainly a matter to be discussed. The same example of Finland that I have given is one option. And if the municipality itself doesn't create these places, it'll buy them by tender. This will also be the price, which will also be the quality control, so that everything will be assessed if necessary. Those who want to live in a nursing home are not very many if there are any such people. I doubt it. Most people are forced to go to a nursing home because there are often no other services. However, I do not think that the cost of a nursing home is too high, I would rather say that the pension is small and it is one of the biggest problems. As far as special care is concerned, the Ministry of Social Affairs has calculated the cost of so-called care, the cost of the place. This is calculated because when a person in special care becomes elderly, he or she no longer needs this service. Once he has been directed there by the municipality, and special care, as we know, is a service provided by the state. If the municipality is willing to take this person to the general care centre because his or her health has changed and he or she has become old, he or she will no longer need special care. For this purpose, a place fee has been calculated, which the state guarantees to the local government. Last year, there was a difference between pensions and place fees, I don't know what it is this year, just over 700 euros. But your question is entirely justified. We also have no minimum requirements in this area. A nursing home can be run by anyone. Unfortunately, the need for care homes is much higher than their number and, looking at our demographic situation, it is clear that this need will not be reduced. This will only decrease if people are able to obtain certain services at home and before them there is not only a choice of home or nursing home, but there are many opportunities that a person can use longer in the home. But thank you for that question. The subject is very topical.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U17	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Social Democrats have been in government for half the past decade, five years. These points, which are now set out here, are well worth discussing and considering. What have been the main obstacles, why have your ministers not been able to implement all this so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U19	Thank you for that question. Indeed, in 2014-2015 I was the Minister of Social Protection. So, what did we start? There were two things that were done later, by the way, thanks to the cooperation of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the principle that a nursing home is a home and the same tools that people could obtain at home with state benefits can now be obtained in a nursing home. That's one thing. One year is a very short time to make major changes, but the question is well-founded. Secondly, at that time, there were a great many increases in child support. Priorities must always be set. For 11 years, child benefits remained unchanged and there was a huge need to raise them. I definitely want to thank the Reform Party that we were in the government with at the time. Child benefit rose from EUR 19 to EUR 45 from 18 cents already in 2015, and now, if there are two children in the family, the allowance for one child is EUR 60. Unfortunately, the position of the Minister of Social Affairs has no longer been given to the Social Democrats. We have received a portfolio of the Minister of Health and Labour, kept by Rannar Vassilyev, Jevgeni Ossinovski and Riina Sikkut. The portfolio of the Minister of Social Affairs has been in the hands of the Fatherland, so these promises could have been fulfilled by the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U20	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U21	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your very thorough presentation. My question is due to the current difficult situation... Sorry, good worshiper in the hall, Tõnis Mölder, I find it difficult to communicate unless I see a waitress! Thank you. The current difficult situation, in my opinion, has significantly changed the image and status of a social worker, and that is very good. It is a respectful and just work that many people do. And that is why I am asking that, since there will certainly be a need for good social workers in the future, how can their training and further training be organised? How much should these people have changed in the labour market in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U22	Thank you very much. Firstly, the role that currently exists for those working in the social field, including the great responsibility that those working in nursing homes, have really spoken to society more. I also want to acknowledge ESTA, the Estonian Association of Social Work, who has done a lot of good in introducing this specialty and raising its reputation. It brings together more than 500 workers in this field. The association of nurses and doctors has made very accurate calculations, looking to the future at how many nurses we need, how many doctors we need. The age composition of people currently in employment has also been appreciated, but the national overview you asked for has not been made, as far as I know. Social work largely consists of services provided by local governments, with the exception of special care. Each municipality is looking at how many child welfare workers and opening-up staff are needed in the municipality or city. This depends on the number of people living in the municipality or city and the municipality calculates, especially with regard to children, how many of these people would be needed to get their jobs done, to carry out all the tasks assigned to social workers. In a crisis situation, in an emergency situation, social workers are given an additional role in relation to the unemployment fund, but the number of these workers has not increased. The state supports the wage support of kindergarten teachers. But I am very happy to talk today just I know more about the city of Viljandi than I do that the city of Viljandi has been trying to increase the pay of social workers. What can be done to enable people to study this wonderful profession? Fortunately, however, social work is relatively popular among young people. They learn it and go to work, but very often they come out of it soon because it's hard. It's difficult both physically and psychologically. It's either the kind of public stories that bring out bad things. The media must do their job, but the good things that are being done all the time in this area are very little reflected. The journal Social Work does this, as does Touchpunkt, Tiina Kangro magazine, and the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People magazine with you. These are places where social work is also reflected in its beautiful. I am not critical at all because the shortcomings are highlighted. Deficiencies must be highlighted, eliminated and learned from them. If things are wrong, you have to make them better. But how many of these people are really needed, it depends on whether we focus on institutional care and only read how much we need nursing homes, or we look more broadly and contribute to this first part, so we prevent problems that can be prevented, we maintain the level that can be maintained, even in the case of dementias, so we do this work with joy and really love. This wisdom and experience, which older ones can share, gives the maker more than it takes away from him. That's where those who want to work, who love it and who get recognised by local governments will stay. And I am very pleased that the city of Viljandi is such a municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U23	Dear colleague Kalle Grünthal, during this item on the agenda, members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to ask each of the rapporteurs a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U24	But, Kalle, I promise you, after we get out of the hall, I'll answer five or five.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U25	Let's go! Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U26	Thank you, dear waitress. President-in-Office of the Council. This is certainly a very grateful subject initiative, but when I read this bill here, I see that it is full of the words 'would','should','should'. You have given the Government of the Republic all these tasks here, but have you also calculated the financial measure of this bill? And what are the sources of cover?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U27	Thank you very much. That the bill is in the form of 'let it be done, let it be done, etc.' is simply because the Social Democrats, unfortunately, are in opposition. Otherwise, there would be a completely different bill: we will, we will and we will. That's one. The second thing is that, unfortunately, we have initiated drafts that have not been supported by this Chamber. We have also tried that we have proposed that when submitting a tax return, those who pay for loved ones should have the right to recalculate 20%. The idea was discussed in the government, and we actually hoped that it would be approved. The Prime Minister has said that it is not who says it is important that if there is a good idea, it is done together. But the first time it didn't get past the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the second time the hall voted down. We've been trying to take these steps. As I said in my presentation, 150 million is the price that Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik has said, whom I certainly want to acknowledge. He started different ideas, too. I would like, for example, to think about caring insurance in order to bring in a variety of financial resources. True, this idea is not the idea of Tanel Kiig, but it is the practice of other countries, such as Germany. That's what Kai Saks said. Those members of the Riigikogu who were a member of the previous Riigikogu know that we had a debate on a very important national issue, where Dr Kai Saks, who is a highly valued expert in this field, came up with the idea of this care insurance. So one number you can say is 150 million. It has been calculated by the Ministry of Social Affairs. And I'm sure these things aren't all done right away, but they should be started. So many of these problems have already been investigated, and one thing we know is how many elderly people we have in ten years' time. We know our demographic situation. Of course, we hope that more children will be born, that there will be people who will contribute to society, who will pay taxes, which will help ease old age.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U28	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U29	Thank you, my dear colleague, for a very thorough approach to the subject. As a result of the previous question, I am also asking about funding and care insurance in this area. Would you open up a little more of this care insurance and its possibilities? Every once in a while, they pick it up, but it kind of wears off. But it does seem that it's very important how we go about this at all. Would you mind enlightening the subject of care insurance?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U30	Thank you very much. Indeed, I was then chairman of the Social Affairs Committee when I brought here more than a thousand signatures from the 'Building Care Insurance in Estonia' initiative, submitted by the People's Initiative. It was in 2017 or already in 2018. And then I brought myself up to date, and I could discuss it with Kai German for a long time. Germany has, for example, chosen such compulsory care insurance as early as 1995. People pay monthly contributions from their service, which, in addition to regular retirement, receive the necessary care during their old-age days. The system works there so that the employee pays 1.5%, and if he is without children, it will be added by 0.25% from the age of 23, and the employer will pay the second share, i.e. 1.52%. It is true that Germany should change the system a little this year. The participation of close relatives will also be increased if their income exceeds a certain amount of money. Right now, this German model is working. I also have a lot of literature about it, and if I have German, I'd be happy to pass it on. The system will be collected jointly and severally, as is the case with our sickness fund, and will be used to pay for services as necessary. Of course, there is a standard or minimum that will be guaranteed. The World Bank study I referred to in my presentation did not really recommend such care insurance to Estonia at the time, but that does not mean that we should not discuss it. I was very sad when Tanel Kiik could not find support from the coalition partners when he came up with that idea. This topic would have been very interesting to discuss and I would certainly have been interested in discussing it from the perspective of different laws. If everyone starts to pay the care insurance payment after the completion of their studies, then the family law should also be amended by imposing the obligation on children and grandchildren to pay for the nursing home of a loved one in the future. It's like these are complex steps. Unfortunately, this debate did not come to the Chamber and I do not know how much it has been held in the coalition, but it is worth discussing. Any debate that is held in the field of social and health care is better than not discussing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U31	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U32	Thank you. Dear waitress, Your presentation was extremely warm but also practical: all your thoughts were covered in numbers and it was very nice. I ask you to put this whole issue in the context of the 'loss of contributions to the second pension pillar'. This money was actually meant to secure the future in many years. How do you combine this step with the fact that the average life expectancy of people in new generations is increasing? Would you like to fantasize a little bit about how these things sound together?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U33	Thank you. As far as possible, read the study and analysis of the Ministry of Social Affairs in June 2019. This is about the livelihood of the elderly and about poverty, and it clearly sets out an analysis which has also looked at world practice. It is considered that losing the second pillar is wrong. I don't want to be able to express my opinion here, but with this bill, I'm sure it's a big deal. It is very important what the amount of our money is and how we ourselves can contribute to securing our old age and raise as much as possible. When payments from the second pillar were suspended during the previous crisis, people were actually given the opportunity to pay more themselves than anyone wanted to continue collecting. But today, I would like to focus first and foremost on these proposals. The government would have been given free rein by this decision. To achieve these ideas, the government has the opportunity to offer a wide variety of options. I was referring here to the Dementia Competence Center. You may remember that during the discussions on the second pillar of the pension, Aivar Kokk, together with another committee, held a public discussion. Katre Ball was also present, who made it very clear that this decision was wrong, don't do it. It was a public hearing. Katre Ball is not a politician. You can blame me for being in opposition, you're a politician, and you have a different view of the world, and so on. However, a study by the Ministry of Social Affairs in June 2019 entitled "The economic coping and poverty of older people" looks at different countries. The presentation by Katre Palli, the Head of the Dementia Competence Centre, during this debate on pension matters, showed very clearly that this is also the opinion of experts in the field. I'm not going to refer here to the banks, the banks are generally understood to be everything about the devil, as very often sounds in this hall. I do not bring up banks who have said so, but other of the best experts in this field have brought it out, and I respect their opinion. I really am a believer in research and science.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U34	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U35	Thank you. I have read this proposal and there are indeed many things that are very reasonable and which I certainly support. Indeed, the government must monitor, for example, carers' allowance, social guarantees and other such things. It's very important. But in this debate in this Chamber, you have highlighted the possibility of a maintenance contribution, and that has caused me great concern. It sounds like another mandatory collection, which means that people are told once again that they have to set aside their own money to make sure that we do not come here in solidarity as a society. I'm worried about that. Have you ever thought that there could still be a solution to making corporate income tax, for example? We'd fund these things from a common boiler instead of making people collect on a mandatory basis. This mandatory collection may in this case even mean shooting in the leg.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U36	Thank you very much, Oudekki. I'm really glad you really read the bill. But when you read both the text of this decision and the explanatory statement, you had to see that there was no word in them, not a word about care insurance. Not a word! My first preference is also that the state will find the means to do so. This was also the result of a World Bank survey at that time. It started in 2015 and lasted until 2017. The subject of compulsory care insurance came up with questions. I enlightened it about what was happening in Germany. And your own party minister has come up with that idea. Tanel Kiik came up with this idea at a major debate organised by the Chancellor of Justice on the possibilities for obtaining people's services, or rather, very often not receiving services because of their high price. This means inequality among older people who have children and do not have children. There Tanel Kiki spoke with this review. I said I was ready to discuss it. And, for example, the insurance of the health insurance fund in Estonia is also a collection of money, for which certain services can be obtained. I would be happy to pay this money all my life and not need any services myself, but unfortunately we need these services more and more. I quote once again that the first person who lives to be 135 has already been born. And the more the average age grows, the more we need these services. It's just an idea, an explanation of how things are organised in Germany. Personally, I like the Finnish model very much. The Finnish model is such that the state and society and municipalities commit to it. People deserve these services and are offered in the best way possible. The most important contribution to the most recent services is the home, hospital, all the most difficult and most expensive services, and it has achieved good results. To say that there is no concern for a person in Finland is certainly not right. They have problems, too. Some private carers who provide the service enter into a contract at a cheaper price but lose out in the quality of the service. But there will be more monitoring, constant quality control, and there will not be confrontation between the elderly and children. Let me give you an example that I like very much. We all nod in local governments and throughout the country that, of course, kindergarten fees are paid by the parent. Family law states that parents take care of children, and in the case of small children, kindergartens pay the place fee and also the food money. The actual cost of kindergarten is considerably higher. The actual cost may be 600, 700, 800 euros, but the parents have a ceiling of 20% of the minimum wage, which is the maximum that the municipality can charge as a place fee, plus food money. For the children of older people, this same family law imposes certain obligations. In Finland, children and grandchildren do not love their parents or grandparents less, but they do not have such obligations there. They are not forced to become a carer of a loved one because they simply have no money to pay for a nursing home. I agree with you, Oudekki, that the state should first contribute more resources to this system. But it's gotta come from somewhere, right? In order to reach a compromise in this Chamber, this issue needs to be discussed. I know that ESTA has been discussing this issue, I know that it has also been discussed among young people and there are very different views. I wouldn't avoid any chance of discussion, I would like to talk about these things. And when Tanel Kiik made this point, I really became interested in studying more of Germany's experiences. And Kai Saks, as a specialist, strongly recommended it. This is where it is possible to do something together between the various parties. But right now, I don't think we do much together. The problem is still in the air.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U37	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U38	Dear waitress, I also come to this issue of care insurance. Today, I think we have the knowledge that the introduction of a care insurance system in Estonia would require a social agreement and also that this social agreement would be held politically. After all, it is quite similar to a long-term agreement like the second pillar of the pension. Given the recent nature of Estonian political culture, long-term agreements are thrown out of the window at some point, it is probably pointless to discuss this care insurance in the near future. But that is not what I want to ask you about, it is not the main issue today. Listening to this debate in this large Chamber gives the impression that there are no serious arguments against the proposals. But this bill needs 51 votes in favour in order for it to go to work. Can you state anything about the arguments in the Commission's discussions that prevent coalition ambassadors from voting in favour of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U39	Thank you very much. Indeed, the issue of care insurance is not reflected in our draft, not even in the explanatory memorandum, as I said when I answered one question. The chairman of the Social Affairs Committee shall give an overview by the Commission. But I can say that in the Committee on Social Affairs, where a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs was also present, there was a very sensible debate, very much the way I say it now, a constructive debate. Everyone said there was a problem. The vote on the decisions was four in favour and five abstentions, not against. As an optimist, I hope that the hall will give those 51 votes. Maybe it's very naive, but as long as you live, you still have to believe and hope. And it seems to me that there are no world-view differences. But this kind of position, how I say it, of the Members of the Commission, was that the government was already dealing with this problem. At the same time, it is known that since 2002 different governments have been dealing with the issue. As I said at the beginning, this bill does not blame anyone for what has not been done, it does not claim that someone is guilty, but seeks ways of solving this problem. We had a disagreement on point nine. I have introduced the eighth to you in a very long and thorough manner, but on the ninth point, we are calling for the government to enforce this package by 1 January 2021. We think it can be done because all the necessary research has been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U40	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U41	I thank you all both for the questions and for a very good debate in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U42	I would now like to ask Mr Möldri, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U43	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu twice discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, to propose legislative changes to the Government of the Republic to solve the problem of long-term care burden. At the first meeting of the Commission, as usual, a representative of the initiator of the draft decision, as well as a representative of the Ministry, were present. There was a substantive debate. I will go a little further on what was then the main points that we discussed in the Commission. The previous speaker has already spoken, but I will come back to why this bill was presented in this form. Indeed, as has also been said, the deadline for entry into force is 1 January 2021. The initiator of the draft act explained once again that the draft was submitted because the problems were acute, but it seems that the government is too slow to deal with these solutions. The problems of low support for carers and the care of older people at all are also reflected in the press. I understand that they simply want to focus more on this issue and speed up the pace of action. But we also had a ministerial representative at the desk, and I think it is very important to bring up the position of the ministry representative. Indeed, it was acknowledged that the proposals in the draft decision are the same as those already dealt with by the Ministry of Social Affairs. These things are working. The Ministry has been tasked with drawing up an intention to be drawn up by the end of this year. The drafting phase of the draft law would be next year and the date of entry into force of the law would be 2022. This time frame also takes into account the discussions on the country's budgetary strategy and the finding of certain financial resources in the strategy. As came out of the previous debate, of course, the changes also require a source of cover. So you could practically say that the biggest difference is in this ninth point, which contains a specific year, a specific date. The representative of the Ministry was asked what these resources are or on what basis these allocations are provided for in the national budget strategy. Indeed, the Ministry pointed out that these additional requests had been made. And they will also be presented in the future according to the timetable. In cooperation with colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, such a scheme has been discussed to ensure that the state contributes 50% of the income base of local governments and that a further 50% of the income base of local governments is available. So it would be cooperation with local authorities, it could be one of the sources of funding for the change. Now, there could certainly be another source of funding. This was also discussed in the Commission. This is the same opportunity that has already been mentioned here today: it is the same care insurance tax. The Ministry has charted the current state of play in other European countries, and the representative of the initiator of the draft has also discussed this in his presentation. He gave an example of Germany; we were given a more overview of the Netherlands. It was said that this could best fit into the Estonian model, as the role of local government is taken into account very clearly in the Netherlands. We also had a debate on quality and supervision in nursing homes. Generally speaking, the level of our nursing homes is considered to be good, but there are certainly other examples that the public has learned about. However, the general situation is, according to the Ministry, positive. There was also a longer debate on what the role of local government is now and what it could be like in the future. There were different opinions. There were those who thought that the role of local government was very clearly in place, but people do not know the opportunities available and local authorities do not provide enough of the services that people would need. There's this kind of discord. Some suggested that under no circumstances should this service be centralised. This should, however, be precisely the competence of local authorities. The local government is, in fact, the institution that knows best what people need on the ground, what services these people need specifically. And actually, they also know a little bit more about the most historical background. And one such long-term discussion was that, given the different national models, a member of the Commission came up with an idea that is worth considering in itself. Right now, our nursing homes are very much the same type, but maybe there should be different levels of care or, let's say, levels according to people's needs. They should not be quite single-hatted, there could be three to six different types of nursing homes that are furnished according to people's needs. Although the Ministry said that they do not see such a system of steps in their long-term plan, it is certainly an issue that needs a longer discussion. That is all, in short, from the Commission's debate. On 13 April, the Commission addressed this issue again and took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 21 April, to appoint Mr Mölder as rapporteur and to propose that the first reading be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U44	Thank you. You have questions too. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U45	Thank you very much for your presentation. I have a question for you about carer support. Your programme states: we will raise the care allowance to EUR 100 per month. Given how different carer support is in different municipalities, this would be a welcome and expected step. Is it done and done by the government? You said the government would soon come out with its own program.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U46	Thank you. You referred to some kind of specific program. I can only say so much from this remote control that the Social Affairs Committee does not have a separate programme with which we might try to win political points. In fact, we have a lot of very, very smart people with a lot of experience and good ideas. I guess this is all our common platform.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U47	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Since the good colleague Helmen did not answer my question, I will ask you again. In 2018, the general care service was provided to 12368 people and according to the Ministry of Social Affairs, these specific people paid 53 million euros for it, and the state and local government paid 14 million euros. These amounts are quite high: EUR 67 million per year. Here's the question. Do you know if it has been calculated how much profit these institutions make in this lucrative business? And shouldn't the state set any restrictions here? This is how prices can be increased at any given time, and we are obliged to pay for it at all times.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U49	Thank you for that question. I have listened briefly to the dialogue you had with the previous speaker, and I think there was a beginning to the answer. But I can go over again what we talked about in the Commission's debate. We did not specifically mention the annual accounts of the various companies, their profit figures or their loss figures. But I share your idea that if the country's role in this area is to increase and the state is to pay for this service in part or in full, then surely there must be fixed prices. It would follow the same model of health insurance. After all, the health insurance fund also has a certain amount of fixed prices and the state compensates for it. The other way around, if it was as profitable a business as you say it would be, I'd like to say there's a market failure somewhere. We've got a lot of nursing homes missing. If it were a very profitable business, there wouldn't be so many homes missing. Well, the truth is somewhere in between.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U50	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U51	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! First of all, I would like to thank you for the very meaningful explanation that took place during the debate on this draft in the Commission. But I'm listening to people in this hall say that somebody's gonna be rich, and there's gonna be big profits. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all: entrepreneurship is done for only one purpose; it is profit-making. There are no other goals. But my question is simple. If prices rise, the standard of living rises, pensions rise, then, of course, the place payment of the nursing home is likely to rise. If you put a limit on it, if you did what you said, according to the health insurance system, is there supposed to be a coefficient? Has it been discussed in the Commission that, if the state or the municipality were to support it, could it be a certain amount of money, no matter where the children put their parents in a nursing home? Should it be the same in all municipalities, then it is EUR 100, 200, 300 or 400?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U52	Thank you. As I said in reply to the previous question, there was, in fact, no specific debate in the Commission on the methodology for calculating these prices or on the methodology for remuneration. I just gave you one example, one chance. Once again, the health insurance fund also has different coefficients. If you work overtime, there is one coefficient when you work under the contract of the Health Insurance Fund, the other coefficient. This is one way, one way, to deal with this situation. Surely every service has a price. People who provide this service want to get a fair reward for this work. Undoubtedly, it is grateful, but it is not an easy job at all. It's hard work. Here we need to find this balance. But, of course, the first question for people is that if April 1 is the day of the indexation of pensions, then exactly from that day the payment for nursing homes has risen. Whether this is a coincidence or whether it is the right moment to increase this price, because then the 'payer's income base' must be very difficult to say! But I will say once again that there was no such debate in the Commission, and perhaps I am going to go down a little too far into creativity here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U53	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U54	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have a question about funding. This bill of understanding is perfectly normal, nice, and obviously no one will mind. But where to get the money? The state is in relative trouble with their nursing homes, but the private owners who come to the aid definitely want to make a profit. We'll come back to the insurance funds. Perhaps we have misbuilt these packages, as was the case with the second pillar, that they are simply burning money. Maybe combine the care package with health, for example? These are two sides of a single medal. And maybe an employer could also contribute to it in addition to the state and the person himself? Such thoughts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U55	Thank you. Once again: as I said, specifically the pricing policy in the Commission was not the subject of discussion. There was a very clear message in the Commission and a goal that we should all have in common: the social sphere and health should be intertwined. Caretakers and nursing homes, I think they're the keywords that support it. This whole service should still be very broad-based and include all these sides. Now for the care insurance fee. Once again, there are different options. I believe that if the Government of the Republic, when implementing its programme, comes up with a large package at one point, they will certainly have several options on how to finance all this. There was a long discussion of the care insurance fee in this hall, but there are other options. And as I said, the ministry itself has come up with one option, according to which 50% would be paid by the state and the same amount should be put out by the local government. Once again, local government has a role to play in these services. Whether this role will be properly fulfilled, whether this role is so clearly formulated that we all share the same understanding of the different approaches here. There was a long debate in the Commission, or a long debate, rather a reference to it, which specifically concerned one municipality. The monitoring carried out in this municipality revealed specific shortcomings. The role of the state is also to supervise local governments. But the other way around, we need to understand that the responsibilities imposed on local governments must also have a source of cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U56	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U57	Thank you. Dear waitress, It's a proposal to the Government of the Republic, a draft decision of this kind. As a representative of the leading party of the coalition and chairman of the committee, please tell us what will happen next. How does it move to government, and what result can be expected?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U58	Thank you. I understand that now that I have answered some more questions from members of the Riigikogu, there is a round of negotiations where representatives of political groups and committees can negotiate, and then we will decide. Then this hall will decide what happens to this draft decision. In fact, it is very clear here that if the large hall supports this draft decision, it will go to the government with specific tasks. There are eight of them here in total: concrete ideas-proposals and there is also a specific date. The difference between the government plan and today's proposal is exactly one year. As the Commission pointed out, the main difference between today's draft and the document in government's work is the date of entry into force, which is set out in the ninth paragraph. If it is 1 January 2021, the government will speak on 1 January 2022. Is the schedule that we're proposing today real? Hard to say, hard to predict. When we held this debate in the Commission, there was an absolutely different situation in the country than what we have today. That's what's up a lot of schedules. So the world is changing, and every big plan needs to be developed with time adjustments, nothing to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U59	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U60	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good chairman of the committee! With the last answer, you already answered my question a little bit. My question would have been when the government was going to come up with their plans. As we know, the option we have proposed and currently on our tables has taken more than a year by the government. Like you said, maybe all the plans have gone uphill, and maybe this time will stretch. But we know that in today's crisis situation, too, it is very important that this change enters into force earlier, so that people whose loved ones are in care get a little bit of ease. And my question is personal to you. Do you support our bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U61	Thank you. The introduction to the question was in the right key, but the end was such a trick. I would like to remind you that I am here, in particular, representing the Social Committee of the Riigikogu and introducing the debate that took place there. So I should avoid personal opinions. The Commission's presentation could be as neutral as possible and address in particular what was discussed in the Commission. Once again, we in the Commission discussed this issue, but not my personal opinion and my view of the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U62	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U63	Good President! Good Tõnis! First of all, Mr Pikhof, of course, had in mind the electoral programme of the Centre Party. Of course, it was possible to understand this with good will. My question is somewhat more general. The social sector is always concerned about the lack of funding. The crisis in COVID-19 has greatly aggravated the situation and social issues are becoming increasingly important, increasingly serious, and the sector needs more money. What is your vision as committee chairman, what is this way out of Estonia's social crisis? We are at least on the verge of a crisis right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U64	Thank you. Again, this is a broader question and I could reply briefly that the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has not discussed these matters in connection with this draft. At the same time, I can confirm that, as far as the particular crisis in Estonia and the world is concerned, the Commission has discussed the situation every week and practically even more than a day or at least several times a week. We have very clear discussion circles where we are dealing with this issue, both with ministerial officials and with people more closely involved. This Thursday, too, we will have a broader debate focusing primarily on science, on what scientists think about this virus. This is a further debate. We have already discussed this once, and now it has been a few weeks, and we will see how the forecasts of scientists have been correct and what they are forecasting for the future. It is very difficult to say whether we have passed the main crisis, whether we are still on its threshold or what is really ahead of us. So these are questions I can't answer right now. These predictions, no matter what I say, I'm 99% convinced that I'm wrong. Now I am going to say my personal opinion, but I admit that I too underestimated this whole problem from both a social and a health perspective, but above all from an economic point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U65	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U66	Thank you! Honourable waitress! My question is motivated by the answer to Mr Espenberg's question when you said that a very sympathetic proposal, but where will the money come from? I have no longer dealt with this area in depth for some time, but my memory shows that this social issue, which is very important for many families, can be solved for a maximum of EUR 50 million. Older people in need of long-term care would then receive a nursing home for their pension. This is actually not a big picture, a very large amount in terms of the state budget. This is primarily a matter of priorities. These amounts can be recovered during the annual budgetary process. Does it also seem to you that Mr Espenberg expressed the opinion with his question that this issue is not a priority enough for at least one government party, or was he just embarrassed that the government was able to find this money? Or has he been informed that this concern is actually quite manageable when the will is?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U67	Thank you. I am trying to be very specific here. I did not think a good colleague said that this was a sympathetic bill; he said that it was normal. I think there's a big difference. It's worth a look at after the verbatim. But it is not really a question of whether the draft is normal or sympathetic, and in fact I do not know exactly what a good colleague meant. That, I think, you can discuss later. But once again, your approach is correct, but is it 50 million, 100 million, as your good colleague and my good colleague have said, Minister Tanel Kiik has said that it is perhaps 150 million instead, in fact, this exact price we do not know today. It all depends on what is a specific strategy, a plan, what are the time frames. And this amount is not a one-off number, this money must be constantly in the budget, so that people can always get the service they need. So in that sense, it is very difficult to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U68	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U69	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Of course, the issue is very serious and needs to be resolved. There has been talk about this many times, but I would like to ask again: is it wise to proceed with this bill now that the government has a draft of the same substance in the process of developing it or whether it is intended to bring it to the table? At the moment, it all seems like a political game, soccer is coming up faster with their bill. What's your opinion, is it wise to go ahead with two drafts? Or do we stick to the government bill that's coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U70	Thank you. I come again to the debate in the Commission. Indeed, the initiator of the draft noted in the Commission that they were not satisfied with the pace of government solving this problem. This is the main bottleneck and the reason why this draft decision came out. The Ministry of Social Affairs, which is carrying all this topic on behalf of the government, says that most of these nine proposals are good and similar to the project the government is working on. These proposals are accepted. I think that this whole hall also agrees that these proposals are good. This whole issue needs to be addressed. But the ministry and the government, I understand, have assessed their capabilities, including the state budget strategy, the necessary source of cover, and have proposed 2022. The Social Democratic Party has proposed 2021. It is very difficult to assess whether the Ministry has the capacity, the money, the sources of cover in the negotiations on the state budget strategy, in order to resolve this issue so quickly. It is a difficult question, and there are no simple answers, but I believe that if the government has set the target for 2022, it will still be tried together and with maximum capacity to deliver.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U71	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U72	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I was actually gonna ask Helmen, but now I'm gonna ask you. Point 2 and point 3 are saying that as a country, we should start reducing the ownership of people with care needs, but there is nothing said about loved ones here? Was that what the Commission was talking about? We actually know now that all this care service is still on the shoulders of most families, and that is due, as I understand it, to our family law as well. Did you mention that maybe we should change the family law first? At the moment, it is still the case that if someone needs a place in a care establishment, if their loved one goes to the municipality to ask for some kind of support, then it is the case that if the family has a family in Estonia and many people are close abroad, even if there is some kind of resort somewhere, some kind of property, then it is said that first sell it, okay, before we help you. Were the problems of loved ones discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U73	Thank you. What was really discussed about people's own participation. This is a problem we know that in Estonia, people's own participation in obtaining this service is unreasonable. At the same time, we also know that local authorities have a role to play here. If, indeed, those people whose family member needs this service are in such a financial situation as not to be able to pay for this service, it is the local government that must help and support it. We in the Commission found that local authorities treat this obligation very differently and that service standards or convergence are also very different. It's definitely a bad thing that it's very different, the other way around it has one positive side. In fact, the local government knows best what is needed specifically for a person, what kind of service, what kind of support. He knows every person's social background and family opportunities. This information is actually available to the local government. In one way, it makes sense that it is the local authority that solves these issues. But, yes, there should be no shortage of service, because its economic capacity is not allowed to use it, but it has a need.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U74	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U75	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! You're spinning in front of us today. On some issues, you boldly state your personal position, on some issues you clearly shirk it and hide behind the Commission's position. You said that the only difference between a very good and concrete draft and God knows when the government's proposal will come is the date of entry into force. Do you not think that in the current deepening social crisis, in which families lose their income, this very good proposal for a decision, or draft decision, should be put into effect in the first order? The sooner the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U76	Thank you. Again, we'll be able to interrogate what we're talking about, check it out. I may have been wrong when I said that this was a very good bill. I don't know if I would have said that, but for the sake of the verbatim report, the government seems to have a very good bill. But once again: we in the Commission have not discussed these issues in this way, and in this sense it is very difficult to say whether one or the other date is correct. But what do I want to tell you again? I agree that the problem raised, this issue year after year, is getting sharper and sharper at the moment. But, as I said, in the current responsibilities too, this role has been assigned to the local government and, in fact, the local authorities also received more money by processing the additional budget, especially in order to provide people with different social services. I think it could ease this problem, solve it. But, as I said, we did not discuss it as such in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U77	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I would like to continue with Mr Breivel's question. Recently, my colleague, Jaak Valge, was able to read an article on how the Riigikogu works as a silent age and as if it performs the tasks assigned to the government and has little say. Now we have here the draft tabled by the Social Democrats, on which my colleague said that we could rather wait for the draft coming from the government, and that we are in a hurry here and we ourselves are working and confusing. How do you feel about this draft tabled by the Social Democrats, taking the initiative in the Riigikogu on an important subject, and we should do more of these things, or should we rather wait for the initiatives of the government and vote through these drafts numbly here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U79	I commend every proposal, then comes from the opposition or from the coalition. All proposals are welcome. And having a debate on the various proposals in this Chamber is part of our work, these proposals will be welcomed or not. The debate in the big hall is, in my opinion, a very important part of our work. So any proposal is very welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U80	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U81	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good chairman of the committee! I'm a little confused. You gave a very good overview of what was happening in the Committee on Social Affairs and you said one question in answer: but the draft government is better. The representative of the Ministry told us in the Commission that by December of this year the intention to develop is still being prepared, and next year, in 2021, a draft will be written, which will enter into force as a law in 2022. How do you know today what this government bill is, that you can compare them? That's one question. And the second is that you responded very well to the question of a good colleague, Helle-Moonika Helme, concerning family law. Indeed, on page 2 of our draft explanatory memorandum, we point out that the share of the recipient of the service and of his family members has increased steadily, and in 2018 it was 80%. This is the amount to be paid by the recipient and his family.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U82	Thank you. As regards the second part of the question and the reference to the question of my colleague, I agree with you on that. And I have to admit, the comparison with the government bill was a slippery path for me. Once again, I should focus more on the work of the Commission. To say whether one is better than the other or the other is worse than the other, let's not pick sides. Every member of the Riigikogu can participate in negotiations, give his or her assessment. So I'm not comparing or giving specific instructions from this remote control. The decisions we made in the Commission, I read it out. Just once again, the Ministry also said: this is a very sympathetic draft with the same points in the government's work programme. Consequently, I was able to say that if the government's work programme contains the same points, then I assume that the government's work programme is also good.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U83	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U84	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Do you personally support the Socialist proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U85	Thank you. I answered that question once, but I will answer again. Once again: we had a debate in the Commission. We did not specifically discuss my personal question, my opinion on this draft. But as I said to a good colleague next to you, to your benchmate, I would like to congratulate and congratulate the Socialists on bringing this important issue to this great hall. I think this is the right place to have such a debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U86	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U87	Thank you. One question is allowed to be asked, but I actually have two questions. First of all, would you describe the government bill you've been talking about here many times? What's better than this decision we've prepared? Please be as specific as possible, because we have not seen this government bill or know how to look for it anywhere. And the second question. In a crisis situation, it was possible to take one serious step in the supplementary budget in this area. In a situation where many people lose their jobs and income, many can no longer pay for their parents and grandparents'home. The Social Democrats proposed an additional budget amendment so that the state would assume this responsibility in cooperation with local authorities. What did you do as Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee to ensure that this proposal was supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U88	Thank you. I understand that everyone has one question, you had two questions. Well, I guess I could desperately choose which one I'm gonna answer, but I'm gonna answer both. Firstly, with regard to the debate on the additional budget, indeed, during the Commission's debate, which was in February, we had no idea of the additional budget. In fact, we had no idea of the situation that began to rule in Estonia and the world a month later. This crisis, which we have been thrown into, I say again: it is a very serious crisis. Leaving it is very difficult, very long-term and diverse measures, especially in the social and health field, are very important. But there are different approaches and different options. I have already made it very clear that, in fact, in the context of the debate on the additional budget, local authorities were given more money to their budget, and precisely the principle that they would use it in the social sphere, in particular, to deal with this viral disease, to prevent it. This is a very important place. Now for the second question. Once again I say: I have not seen this bill either, but I believe that if a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs in the Commission says that this bill looks similar, that it is the same on most points, then I believe him. If a representative of the ministry says that your bill is sympathetic, but the government is working on its own draft, which is just as sympathetic. The difference lies in the time of entry into force proposed in point 9 of your draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U89	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Let's open the negotiations. Heljo Pikhof, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! First of all, I would like to thank Helmen Kütt for his very thorough and meaningful presentation. Nobody denies that we have a lot of problems in long-term care. The burden falls on family members both when caring for care and when paying for care services. Access to the service is increasingly dependent on the solvency of the user of the service. The public sector in Estonia spends too little on long-term care compared to other EU Member States, approximately 0.2 to 0.4% of GDP. At the same time, the World Bank has pointed out in its analysis that in order to improve the situation, expenditure in this area should rise to 21⁄2.5% of GDP. The European Commission's report has pointed out several times the underfunding of our nursing homes, the scarcity of places and the unfair height of the price level compared to the average pension. There is great poverty among older people. The Ministry of Social Affairs summarised the problem in this way: the organisation of long-term care as a whole needs to be reviewed at national level. Our question is, will we keep looking at it? Until the March elections, a bunch of people and carers in need of assistance were on the agenda. It already seemed that society as a whole, as well as experts and decision-makers, had realised that the settlement of pains could not be delayed. The population is aging. The proportion of people aged 65 and over is projected to increase to nearly 26% of the population by 2040. Together with the ageing of society, the number of people in need of care is increasing. There are tens of thousands of people living in Estonia who have to arrange long-term care for their loved ones. If there is a helpless person behind closed doors who cannot cope on his own and needs constant supervision, it also means a heavy burden on the helpers, often burning out, and a remorse that he cannot do as much for his mother or father as the heart tells or doctors-sisters-sisters can, but there is no place to be found in the nursing home or can't be paid for it. Older people's pensions are not enough to pay for living in a nursing home, yet in one developed country it should not depend on whether they receive the care they need, on the economic situation of their children and grandchildren. An elderly person has worked all his life and paid taxes, so if necessary, he or she must have access to a nursing home for his or her own pension. We have an estimated 13,000 people who are so busy caring for someone close to us that they cannot work. According to the letter of the law, the right to seek the support of the municipality is limited to counselling. The state, together with local authorities, must ensure the necessary medical and care services so that older people can manage independently for as long as possible. Above all, it is important to contribute to the development of all kinds of home services, including nursing care, all the more so as to make society cheaper. The system needs to be changed so that the family does not have exclusive responsibility. In developed countries, of which we consider ourselves, care insurance usually works, or the amount of a person's own pension is taken into account, and sufficient allowance must also be available in the inpatient. It is not appropriate for a child or a grandson to live his or her life so that a loved one can die with dignity. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U91	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U92	Good fellows! We cannot escape the reform of the welfare system. In the coming years, the number of people in need of care will increase exponentially, and services will become more expensive. Under the leadership of the Social Democrats, we have repeatedly discussed the topic of informal care in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu, making proposals to improve the situation. Last time we proposed a change in the state budget for this year, we wanted to provide the person with a nursing home for his own pension from 1 July. The state, together with the municipalities, would pay the price difference. As far as the additional budget is concerned, we have proposed a similar amendment to this. We need to develop a modern and comprehensive care system that will allow the elderly to cope as long as possible at home and, if necessary, to live in a nursing home for their pension. According to different calculations, this would cost €40.50 million per year. We are living in a time of crisis, and that is true in many ways. Many have already been left, and many are still unemployed and not yet paid. At present, the state must fulfil its duty and provide the necessary assistance to pay the difference between the cost of the nursing home and the pension. And from the coming year, it could be made for granted, made the norm. The Socialist request is to support our draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U93	Thank you. Signe Riisalo on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U94	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Long-term care and the burden involved are a very personal subject for all of us who are in this hall, as well as for all other people of Estonia. We want it or not, we've all been through it or we'll be exposed to it in a very different role someday. If we say that we do not sense that long-term care is an important issue that society needs to resolve, then we deny our fears of the fear that we are aging, of the fear that an accident could happen to us or our loved ones, which will lead us to a situation where care, perhaps for a very long time, is inevitable. I would like to thank the Socialist Group, particularly Mrs Helmen Kütt, for this initiative. I would like to thank the Committee on Social Affairs for a very meaningful debate. I would like to thank all of you in this Chamber, because the questions have been really relevant and meaningful. And that makes me hopeful that we will not delay for a year the possibility of going to help our people both in organising the maintenance burden and in financing it. Some of my own thoughts come to this. At every stage of life, man has a role to play. As a child, you have to develop, learn and play, working-age people have to work to support society. But not only, they also have the right to private life, to personal life. And over the course of our lives, we are actually preparing for this period, which we regretably call old age, but which is age and could be active and dignified. This is also the case when the maintenance load is higher than normal. So what really matters? It is important to understand that care burdens do not only concern older people. This may affect our disabled children, our working - age loved ones, those in an accident, whose health is constantly deteriorating. What else is important? It is important to understand that long-term care is not just care. This also means targeted prevention and reduction of maintenance needs. This is the aim of social work, and it is possible and necessary. And it has to be dealt with. All these thoughts are actually well written in the draft decision. The Ministry of Social Affairs has all these thoughts. All these thoughts have actually been discussed several times in the Government of the Republic. Yet we are here today in this situation without clear decisions and clear goals. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of some of the links with long-term care. First of all, the size of the working-age population versus the number of people in need of care, children and the elderly. The more people we can keep active and on the labour market, including carers, as well as people with preventive care needs, the stronger and richer our society will be. The better we can integrate into the health and social care system, the more sustainable our society is when it comes to children. We don't have time to wait. Any decision not made, every year you expect, will only increase your problems. That is why I very much ask you to support the draft decision taken by the Group of the Social Democratic Party in this Chamber today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U95	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation by the political groups. The negotiations are over. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The commission's proposal is for a final vote and we are going to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group 'Proposaling the Government of the Republic to develop legislative changes to solve the problem of long-term care burden' draft 149. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft decision, no one opposed, no abstentions. The decision was not approved and accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U96	Let's keep going. Today's second item: Second reading of the draft law amending the law on liquid fuel supply initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mr Rimmel, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Liquid Fuel Stock Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, aims to transpose the implementing directive of the European Commission. According to the amendment to the draft proposal, it will be calculated in the future, not in the three months of the calendar year, but in the six months of the calendar year, on the basis of the data from the previous and previous calendar year. And that is also the only amendment to be adopted by this law. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 20 January and the first reading was on 19 February, where the deadline for amendments was 5 March. No amendments were received from the Riigikogu by this deadline. The draft was also sent to the Estonian Oil Association and AS Estonian Liquid Fuel Supply Agency to express its opinion, nor did they give a different opinion on this draft. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft between first and second readings at its meeting on 9 March and, as no amendments or opinions had been received, procedural decisions were taken. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 18 March and to propose that the second reading be terminated. In the event that the second reading is closed, the proposal for a final vote on 25 March could be referred to the third reading. However, the Riigikogu Board did not put the draft on the 8th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on the agenda, as the special situation was announced on 13 March. In agreement with the chairman of the committee and the rapporteur of the commission, the second reading of the draft was included on the agenda of the Riigikogu on 21 April. The commission intends to propose a new proposal for a third reading after completion of the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U98	Thank you, dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U99	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I listened to your report and read in the explanatory statement that no amendments were made. At the same time, I see that four changes have actually been made. One date has also been changed, and I am very interested in what is behind this change. I mean point 2, which says that in Paragraph 3 (11), one part of the text is replaced by another.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U100	I think you mean the change in date that relates to six months instead of three months. The current law had the date of 31 March, but now the reference period is postponed to six months, and now it is 30 June. If that's what you mean.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U101	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 133. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U102	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Courts initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Code of Civil Procedure. I'd like the Minister of Justice, Raivo Aegis, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Courts' issues, including the speed and effectiveness of the courts' proceedings, have been the subject of both political and social debate for a very long time. The draft law amending the Law of the Courts and the Code of Civil Procedure has now come before you. Work on this has been done for a year or more. The analysis panel of judges and officials has taken part together; they have screened the problems and also proposed solutions. The draft, which was drawn up on the basis of these proposals, received supporting feedback from the Court of Justice Administration Advisory Board, other legal practitioners and associations, as well as from the Chamber of Commerce. It should be noted, however, that the panel is already working on the next draft, which goes even deeper on the organisation of the courts. The draft that has come before you includes six solutions for better organisation of court proceedings. Firstly, the biggest problems facing the judiciary are uneven workload, as well as the tendency for more complex cases to be concentrated in larger places. With the draft, we offer a solution for harmonising burdens. We give flexible levers to the judicial system so that the work can be divided into smaller courts with greater burdens. At the same time, the existing judicial network is maintained: four county courts in 16 cities, two administrative courts in four cities. Redistribution makes it possible both to diversify the work of small courthouses and to deepen the specialisation of courts. The redistribution would be decided by the presidents of the district courts on the basis of the draft, who would do so together on the proposal of the president of the county or administrative court in need of assistance. The redistribution of the burden on the courts of first instance also affects the burden on the Circuit Courts as a level of appeal. The solution proposed does not mean that the party to proceedings should drive to the other end of Estonia. The draft provides that the assisting court is to rule on the case on behalf of another court, so that the jurisdiction of the court does not change. In particular, written procedures shall be reallocated. Based on the first quarter of this year, 78% of misdemeanours, 85% of civil cases and 86% of administrative cases are settled in written proceedings. However, if there is a need to hold a hearing and the parties concerned cannot do so via the video bridge, the judge will travel, not the party to the proceedings. Secondly, in parallel, there is the possibility that a judge of one court will go to another court on a case-by-case basis. This could be implemented if the calendar shows that it is not possible to appoint the next item for discussion within a reasonable period of time. In such a case, you can appeal to other courts for faster assistance in the form of an additional judge of the party concerned. The seconded judge will also retain the jurisdiction of justice in his home court. The case may be referred to the same court or to a lower court. Thirdly, the Supreme Court is granted the right to extend the mandate of a judge who has been dismissed on his own request or because of his age, if this is necessary for the completion of the proceedings. This will avoid a situation where a judge's departure must start discussing the matter again from the beginning. It should be noted that the judge has the right to retire at the age of 68 and the Supreme Court may extend it until the age of 72. The draft offers a new possibility that the judge will remain in part-time work to clear the table, but no longer than 72 years of age. A Judge with extended term of office would receive 25% of the salary of a judge, plus a pension if he was entitled to a special pension for a judge in the past or to a general pension under the law in force. Fourthly, the judge must notify his wish to resign at least nine months in advance instead of six months. This will allow more efficient advance planning of the work of the judge and of the vacancy. The fifth amendment is meant for an emergency. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is currently dealing with the so-called 'Multiple Immigration Prevention Bill', which bears the number 110. It transposes Article 18 of the Return Directive into Estonian law. In the event of an emergency of mass immigration as described in this draft, this bill entitles the President of the Circuit Court to include county and circuit judges in the temporary examination of applications for detention in the composition of the administrative court. The sixth, or final, change, is another step in the series of specializations in courts. Since the registration department that maintains the business register and the real estate department that maintains the land register are units of the Tartu County Court, the examination of the complaints submitted in these cases is also brought together under the special jurisdiction of the county and district courts of Tartu. So far, these disputes have been settled according to the location of the company or immovable property. This means that judges in the Real Estate and Registry Department are given interpretative instructions and are examined by civil judges all over Estonia. However, commercial law and property law are areas of law where the predictability of case law is of great value. The draft allows the discussion of the register and real estate to be brought together in the courts of Tartu and thus to harmonise practice. I hope that the bill will receive your attention and support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U104	Thank you, Minister. There are no questions about this report for you. Now we must listen to a co-report, for which I would ask the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Paul Puustusmaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U105	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister for his presentation, which stressed the importance of this law. However, I, who, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, should speak above all about the work of the committee which is to be dealt with, stress that, as the Minister said here, this is a very necessary draft. This is a draft, which is subject to the old people saying that rege rauta in the summer, to repair the cart in the winter. The preparations provided for in this bill are necessary even when the problem is not yet here. It would be too late to start solving them in a situation where there is already a problem. So this is a good preparatory draft prepared by real specialists. As the Minister has already pointed out, the working group that drew up the draft and those who helped it have included very high-level judges and other specialists. I can say that I have been present at the court administration council and have listened to other discussions on the draft, I am sure that this is indeed not only a necessary but also a very well thought-out draft. As the Minister pointed out, the purpose of the draft is, in particular, to allocate the uneven workload of the courts and to make it more rational, cheaper and better. This also means the organisation of the work of territorial and judges, as well as the advantages of planning the work of courts and of some organization in register disputes. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs held its meeting on 14 April. The meeting was chaired by Ms Kalle Grünthal, Mr Marek Jürgenson, Mr Kaja Kallas, Mr Kiisler, Mr Lauri Läänemets, Mr Hanno Pevkur, Mr Martin Repinski and Mr Taavi Rõivas. Mr Raivo Aeg, Minister of Justice, and Mr Viljar Peep, Deputy Chancellor of Justice Policy at the Ministry of Justice, were invited to explain the issues of this bill. The Minister noted that one of the biggest problems to be solved by this draft was the uneven workload of the courts, and so the draft proposed solutions for harmonising the burden. The purpose of the draft act is to establish in the Courts Act a mechanism which gives the right to refer cases to a court of the second instance where this is necessary for the proper functioning of justice. The Minister said that there would be no change in their jurisdiction or the place where they were to be dealt with during the delegation of cases, and this was very important. The judges of one court shall rule on behalf of another court and the parties to proceedings shall in any event be granted access to justice by a single court. The Commission meeting also stressed that this does not mean that the parties to proceedings should run from one court to another. The judges are moving, the documents are moving. What's important is the moment that the organization is created, based on the principle of 'clean the table'. At the moment, we have a relatively large number of judges, but they are still constantly missing. At the same time, there is a problem with the retirement of judges, and there have been practically situations where no process can be completed for this reason and when a new judge comes, everything has to start again. This, of course, creates a complex situation that affects the attitude of the court as well as the procedures themselves. Now there is a chance that if the procedure is not completed, because the judge should retire, he will still be given the opportunity to complete his affairs, to clear the table and to retire with a calm heart. It is also important that courts are given the opportunity to plan their work better. The need for judges can then be seen for more than six months, by nine months. Resolving the problems of possible mass immigration is also an important step in its own right. If there were to be such a situation as to bring the country into a mass immigration situation, judges would have to start carrying out certain procedural procedures and would simply not have enough. Well, we have judges, but they're only in a certain area, they're connected to the regions. This draft creates the possibility that judges will also be able to resolve matters in another region. This is, then, a change in the nature of common jurisdiction. It is also proposed to amend the regulation in order to improve the quality of the resolution of certain types of complaints. These are just the records. The purpose of the amendment introduced in the draft law is to consolidate the business register, the whole of it was specifically competent in the area of the courts of Tartu and thus to increase the specialisation of judges. This will improve the quality of these solutions. Mr Pevkur said at the hearing that the changes to be made are generally technical and have an impact on the organisation of the judiciary, but he raised the question of the provision concerning the further work of a judge reaching pensionable age. According to Pevkur, this provision is reasonable in itself. After all, there has been a lot of talk that proceedings should not be dropped because of the judge's retirement. The amendment is now that when a judge reaches retirement age and starts receiving a pension, he has the right to continue working with 25% of his previous salary. Pevkur asked to explain how the idea of paying 25% of the previous salary arose and whether such a remuneration would provide sufficient motivation to continue working. In addition, Pevkur asked whether there was budget money for the proposed changes or whether it would be asked for more for the next year's budget. The Minister replied that this idea had been discussed and coordinated at length, including in the Courts Administration Advisory Board, where it had been approved. As far as the budget is concerned, the budget for next year has not yet been put together. However, these funds will be found in the budgetary procedure. This is primarily the expenditure provided for by law and the money will be found. Mr Peep, for his part, commented that it should be taken into account that there are two dimensions to this draft. The judge has the right to retire at the age of 68, but this can now be extended until he reaches the age of 72. In addition, the draft suggests the possibility that if the judge stays in office for that period, he will be paid part-time and 25% of his previous salary, but also his pension. It should be taken into account that special pensions for judges were abolished in 2013 and this applies to those who have earned pension rights. Pevkur asked me to clarify what the logic is. How will it be for those who no longer have special pension rights? If special pensions are lost and the judge works between 68 and 72 years of age, will he receive a normal pension plus 25% of his previous salary? According to Pevkur, this is a rather fundamental position. Viljar Peep replied that the judge would be entitled to a pension and, in addition, he would have the opportunity to earn 25% of his previous salary, working part-time and ending his business. The questions raised by Kaja Kallas concerned the registration procedures and their transfer to the Tartu County Court. He said that according to the explanatory memorandum, it is clear that the Tartu County Court is dealing with the matters of the register and these appeals go to the jurisdiction of the Tartu Circuit Court, but this is clearly not included in the draft. Viljar Peep replied that the Real Estate Department and the Registry Department have been at the Tartu County Court for several years. There are entry orders and supervisory procedures regulations that are carried out by judges' assistants. A judge's assistant is a judicial officer who may decide to issue an order on his own. Instructions on how to interpret the right are given to him by a judge. If the judicial assistance is not satisfied and is challenged in the form of an appeal, it shall be examined by the Judge. Under current law, such disputes are settled according to the company's location and the location of the property. This means that all Estonian civil judges who discuss registration cases in a court of law may express their views and examine legal complaints. The consequence is that the practice of dealing with registry cases is uneven. The amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure is intended to concentrate the resolution of these appeals in the hands of the county and district courts of Tartu. Kaja Kallas asked whether all other things, such as the payment order procedure, would go in the normal way and nothing else important had been omitted. Viljar Peep confirmed that there will be no confusion here. First, the Payment Order Department is located at the Pärnu County Court and, in the case of court aids drafting regulations, the right of appeal goes to the judges of the county court and then to the Tallinn Circuit Court. If it is the real estate or registry department of the Tartu County Court and there will be a decree appeal, it may not go to the Tartu County Court at the moment. The paragraph to be annulled states that an appeal is made by the location of the legal person or by the location of the property. It'll lead them all to four county courts. If this paragraph is cancelled, the resolution of the decrees of the registration and supervision procedure will go directly to the Tartu Circuit Court through the Tartu County Court. Paul Puustusmaa asked who would appoint the director of the court to the Supreme Court. The question is that § 125 of the Courts Act determines the role of the Director of the Court and states that the Director of the Court of the Court of First and Second Instance is appointed by the Minister of Justice, but the Supreme Court is also known to have the Director of the Court. Who's gonna appoint this person? Viljar Peep replied that the Supreme Court does not have a court director in the sense of the Courts Act. Everything that concerns the staff serving the Supreme Court until the Director is arranged by the Supreme Court itself autonomously, independently. The Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Court provide that the President of the Supreme Court appoints the Director of the Supreme Court. Kalle Grünthal asked that an action is currently brought in the action following the defendant's place of residence, but if the cases are divided according to the principle of equal redistribution, it may be that, if there is no written procedure, the case must be dealt with in a different area of court. The problem may be the least well-insured people, for whom such travel can be financially problematic. Mr Peep replied that this was not the case. In order to harmonise the burden on courts, things can be redistributed, for example, so that any other consumer's credit dispute would go from Harju County Court to Viru or Pärnu County Court. That would actually mean that this other court would settle this case on behalf of the Harju County Court. Jurisdiction will not change. If this is not a written procedure and there must be a hearing and this session cannot be held by video bridge, then the judge of Pärnu or Viru will go to Tallinn himself. The parties to the proceedings do not have to drive, the judge drives. This was also emphasised by the Minister in his speech today. The Commission took such decisions by consensus: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 21 April, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped and to appoint Mr Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. The committee supported the appointment of ten working days for the deadline for amendments pursuant to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. In doing so, the Commission had taken its decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U106	Thank you, Mr. Waitress. No questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups have the desire to negotiate with statements of opinion? I don't see that wish. The negotiations have been concluded or, rather, are not concluded and the first reading of draft 175 has been completed in accordance with the proposal of the lead committee. The deadline for tabling amendments is 6 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U107	We will discuss the following item: First reading of the Law on Plant Protection, the Law on organic farming, the Law on state fees and the Bill on Plant Reproduction and the Amendment of Plant Variety Law 142 initiated by the Government of the Republic. For the presentation, please, Minister of Rural Affairs Arvo Aller!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Ministry of Rural Affairs has prepared a draft law on plant protection law, organic farming law, state fee law and plant reproductive and plant variety rights law. The aim of the draft is to bring the laws into line with the European Union Plant Health Regulation and the Regulation on official controls. In addition, the Law on Plant Protection will be amended as a result of the amendment of the Sustainable Plant Protection Directive of the European Union. In the field of plant health, the circle of those covered is expanding. To this end, the obligation to notify economic activities is generally extended to all operators involved in the marketing of plant planting material. It also introduces authorisation requirements for operators of wood packaging material and operators wishing to issue a plant passport. In the future, an operator producing and marketing plants intended for planting, including seeds of some species that require a plant passport, shall be subject to a plant passport authorisation. In order to be authorised, an undertaking must undergo initial training and, subsequently, further training, which is organised by the Agricultural Office and which is free of charge. The principles governing the financing of post-plant health control activities will be changed. The amendment introduces a supervisory fee for inspections which were initially not planned but which are necessary due to irregularities detected in the course of official controls. State fees in the field of plant health have also been updated to cover the costs of official control operations and to ensure monitoring capacity. In order to ensure that the requirements are implemented, a misdemeanour shall be established for non-compliance with the requirements for the processing, labelling and repair of wood packaging material and for the issuing of plant passports. It also provides for misdemeanour in the event of non-compliance with the requirements laid down for the placing on the market, placing on the market or use of a plant protection product. For example, it will be possible to impose a fine on a person who uses a plant protection product incorrectly. The amendments to the Organic Farming Act and to the Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Law are mainly of a technical nature. The substantial change updates the national fees for monitoring organic production in order to compensate for the increase in monitoring costs resulting from the rapid development of the organic sector. The entry into force of the Act is planned in general terms, with the exception of amendments to the State Fees Act, which would enter into force on 1 January 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U109	Thank you, Minister. Questions. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U110	Thank you, Minister. The question of fees and charges. Can you explain a little bit more about what will be paid, what will be charged, how much additional money will be paid to the budget for 2021?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U111	Thank you. The main thing is that in organic farming, the increase in fees is linked to an increase in monitoring costs. In summary, the state fees were calculated on the basis of real costs and in the current situation it would have been necessary to increase the state fees four times. According to the draft, state fees will increase twice in size and, as a public good, most of the costs will be borne by the State from its budget. Now, in magnitude, the budget for 2021 is still being made, so I do not know what this specific amount is right now. I think that if the budget is to be made, we can also specify the forecast of these state fees. It also depends very much on how many new applicants will be added this year to the support for organic farming. On the basis of the surface, we could make a calculation by the beginning of the summer of possible revenue in the state budget for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U112	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U113	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. From answering the last question, I kind of got excited. I don't know much about agriculture, I'm just a pot farmer, but I really appreciate the work of farmers. Is such an increase in fees reasonable in the current emergency situation? That's one. And secondly, I note that organic farming actually has relatively high costs as it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U114	Thank you. So, cost structure and methodology for raising state fees. In Estonia, the national fee of 100 hectares would rise to 212, for example, in Finland the national fee of 100 hectares is 750 euros and in Latvia 726 euros. Perhaps even with the current increase, there will be a situation where our farmers, organic farmers, have more favourable state fees. And the second part will be paid by the state through its own budget anyway. The State fee is a monitoring operation, all of which are included in this price during the period or during the season. In Finland, Latvia and Lithuania, the subsequent inspections, i.e. the collection of analyses and samples, are separately remunerated; in Estonia, all of them are currently included in the price of the state fee. However, if the question is whether it makes sense to increase it now, these state fees should be proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2021. There is six months and more time to pay these state fees in April or June 2021. In this case, the notice period is sufficient, six months in advance is known to increase the fees.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U115	Ivari Padar, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U116	Thank you very much. Sorry for a question that does not concern this bill, but since you are not in Question Time tomorrow and farmers have asked me about it, I will ask you. If you can, come in. I ask in the context of the ministerial exchanges in your party: what about your loyalty? For example, I don't know if you're a member of the party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U117	Sorry, didn't hear the end!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U118	What about your loyalty? Are you a member of the party? I don't know that, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U119	I swore an oath before the Riigikogu, and I am loyal to the state of Estonia and to the employer, who is the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U120	Helmen Hunter, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U121	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I do have a question on the subject. Tell me the last time those fees were raised, those fees.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U122	Good question! They haven't been raised in organic farming, as far as I know. Perhaps former ministers can help, but according to my records, these state fees have not been raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U123	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Tarmo Tamme, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Commission meeting took place on Tuesday 14 April 2020. The Minister of Rural Affairs Arvo Aller, who also made a presentation here today, Hendrik Kuusk, Head of the Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Sigmar Suu, Head of the Plant Health Department, and Geir Veski, Head of the Legal Department. On the agenda, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft law on plant protection, organic farming, state fees and plant reproductive and plant variety rights for the first reading of 142 discussions. The Minister has already presented this draft here in quite detail, and he has also done so in the Commission. As has been said, he gave an overview of the changes to the organic farming law. He noted that the draft provides for border inspection posts where organic production can be introduced from third countries. With a view to improving supervision, the level of state fees will be changed. He gave an example of the size of the state fees for organic farming in neighbouring countries. We have to admit that we actually have significantly smaller ones. The members of the Commission asked that large quantities of forest planting material be introduced into Estonia, which is distributed between different intermediaries. They asked if all intermediaries had to issue plant passports. The answer was that if forest planting material brokers are only engaged in buying, selling and brokering, they do not have to register in the state register or obtain a permit to issue a plant passport. The minister added that if the batch was given one plant passport, it would move along with the split parts of the batch. It was asked whether in this case the intermediary would make a copy of the plant passport, which would move up to the final consumer. The Minister has confirmed that this is the case. There was also an interest in those who store seeds of forest trees: do they have to apply for a plant passport? It was said that only where seed was harvested, a plant passport should not be issued. It was examined whether differences were made in terms of quantities and whether the size of the lot was not regulated. It was also asked whether the draft regulation regulates the control of plant sprays. The Ministry's proposal is to extend the period related to the inspection of plant protection products and the plant protection certificate due to the emergency situation. It was pointed out that the opinion on draft 142 has been given by the various parties in the sector. The Estonian Farmers' Confederation has just sent a letter to the Rural Affairs Committee. It was asked whether the Ministry was planning to discuss the issues raised by the Confederation. The Minister replied that the draft did not deal with the collection of varietal data; this issue would be discussed later. They then asked whether the Ministry should also re-examine the issues raised by the Central Union. It has also been pointed out that this is also an issue of protection of intellectual property and that the law needs to be enforced. It was also said that operators must submit data on the use of the variety to the Agricultural Office by 30 June. It was pointed out that it was not possible to transmit these data without contact. One important observation was that when data is provided through PRIA, Estonia is a paperless country for the second year, everything goes through e-mails. I'm sure we have to draw attention to that. The opinion was further expressed that the data could be collected by the seed union, not by the state. A sensible solution must be found, and this can be done between the first reading and the second reading. In conclusion, it was decided to propose that 142 be placed on the plenary agenda by 21 April (consensus) and that the first reading of the draft be closed (consensus). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U125	Thank you very much. No questions for you, dear waitress. It is now possible to open negotiations, the representatives of the political groups can take the floor. No one has made a wish, so no negotiations will be opened. We have the commission's proposal to conclude the first reading of draft 142. No one has contested this proposal. First reading is over. The deadline for tabling amendments is 6 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U126	Let's move on to the agenda. We have on the agenda the fifth item of the draft Act 164 amending the Law of the Government of the Republic and other laws on the conversion of the Government of the Republic into the Agricultural and Food Administration, initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Food and Veterinary Office. We're gonna start reading it first. I'd like to ask Arvo Aller, the Minister of Rural Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U127	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The drafting of the draft law is linked to the restructuring of the institutions within the area of government of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, during which the Agricultural Office and the Food and Veterinary Office are restructured and merged into the Agricultural and Food Administration. The draft is based on the principle of state reform to reduce the same activities in different national administrations. It will also help to reduce the number of public authorities and improve the quality and availability of public services. Following the merger of agencies, the Agriculture and Food Board to be set up will continue to fulfil all the existing core functions of the two agencies, which require, inter alia, the maintenance of current competences and staff. As it was intended to maintain the current workforce after the merger of agencies, the new agency's posts will be filled as much as possible with existing staff, but in certain cases it may also be necessary to fill the jobs by means of a public call for proposals. The timetable for the restructuring of the agencies is planned so that the Agriculture and Food Board can start work on 1 January 2021. By this time, the Agricultural Office and the Food and Veterinary Office will have to cease their activities, and the Agriculture and Food Board will be set up on the basis of these two agencies. The main activities in the restructuring of agencies are the amendment of the Government of the Republic Act and other relevant legislation, which requires amendments to 31 laws. In addition, it is necessary to amend the draft law to implement 19 Regulations of the Government of the Republic and 153 Regulations of the Minister of Agriculture or Rural Affairs. Ministerial regulations in other areas also need to be amended: four regulations of the Environment Ministers and two regulations of the Interior Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U128	Thank you, Minister. There are no questions for you. No one's registered. Thank you and I would like to give the floor to the co-rapporteur, Mr Aart, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the Minister's explanations, I would like to say that this is a rather time-critical draft. If you want to launch a new office or a joint office on 1 January, at least on 1 July, the Head of the Office has to launch a competition. In addition, it is necessary to endorse the new Agency's Statute, to deal with the restructuring of work, which also includes the structure of the Agency and the composition of its staff. Both internal and external communication must be addressed. It's a pretty long process that's been going on for almost two years, but now that we have the right to do this officially, it's getting pretty fast. The Minister has explained the issues relating to the establishment of the Joint Authority in the Committee on Rural Affairs on 14 April. The Committee on Rural Affairs decided by consensus to appoint Merry Aart, a member of the Commission, as rapporteur for the 164th draft, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 21 April and that the first reading of the draft be closed. That's all I got. If you want, I'll answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U130	The desire to ask questions has not been revealed. Thank you, dear waitress. Let me ask you now: do the political groups have a desire to participate in the negotiations? Nor has the desire been shown. So I consider the negotiations to be concluded. We have the commission's proposal to conclude the first reading of draft 164. The first reading is closed, no other proposal has been made. The deadline for tabling amendments is 6 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U131	We will proceed to the sixth item on the agenda, which is the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, number 176. Let's start reading it first. Mr Hanno Pevkuri, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would like to speak as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Special times also require specific measures, including flexibility and readiness, from Parliament to respond as quickly as possible to the existing situation. Thus the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has for some time been working on amendments to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act in order to be prepared at the Riigikogu, also in the large hall, to meet in the form of a remote session. In fact, at the beginning of a real emergency, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs formed the view that meetings of committees could be conducted electronically, but in our opinion, discussions in a large hall needed more precise regulation in the law. At present, however, our rules of procedure and rules of procedure clearly state that the sittings of the Riigikogu are held in Lossi Square 1a, in this large hall, or in another location designated by the President of the Riigikogu. But clearly, it's still a certain physical location. Consequently, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs started amendments to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act with a narrow focus to limit changes to the creation of the possibility of a remote session. And in order to prepare for the creation of this opportunity, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we made a small working group consisting of one member from each political group. With this working group, we worked with the people of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and we have now reached the stage where we have a draft to offer to the large hall, which briefly states the following. First, the Board of the Riigikogu can decide to hold a sitting with a remote participation. There must be compelling reasons for this. Why did we choose the word pair 'big reasons' rather than refer, for example, to the terms'special situation', 'extraordinary state' or'military state', which exists in the current law, in the same way as the emergency situation? The main reason is that Parliament is autonomous and free in its work and cannot depend on decisions taken by the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic has the right to impose a special situation in the country, but 'weighing reasons' are given the competence of the Board of the Riigikogu to assess whether these reasons are such that we must also create the possibility of a remote sitting. Another very important principle is that the Board of the Riigikogu must also establish the appropriate procedures for implementing the possibility of a remote sitting. This means that we have a lot of technical nuances that do not need to be included in the law. We need, among other things, to ensure that the rights of people with special needs are guaranteed and, most likely, the most sensible place to do so is the same procedure for holding and implementing the same sitting as the remote sitting. This can be done by the Riigikogu Board. I would now point out that the Board of the Riigikogu must then ensure that members of the Riigikogu are able to attend this session. The simplest idea is that, just as we currently have a voting board on the desktops, a similar application should also emerge electronically. We have a secure electronic environment in which members of the Riigikogu can sign in and carry out their voting activities in the same way as when they participate in this Chamber. To this end, there is a provision in the draft that a member of the Riigikogu must be able to vote with a voting system or, for example, by raising his hand. If, for some reason, these options are not available, the draft provides for the possibility, as in the current law, that the result of the vote will be made clear in another way. In order to determine otherwise the result of the vote, a voting committee shall be set up, consisting of one member from each political group. It is already in the existing law, which we did not change. At all, we tried to draw as much as possible on the current domestic and operating procedures and to make minimal changes to the text when writing this bill. If the Internet does not work at home or elsewhere, it can also notify the Commission of its decision by telephone, for example. Now, what is still important for this bill? It is important that this remote sitting is subject to the same principles as an additional sitting or an extraordinary session. Perhaps there must be at least 51 parliamentarians present and attend the hearing. If you come to these points a little more precisely, these so-called general provisions are included in the already existing sections of the Home and Working Procedures Act and a separate chapter 10 section 4 is added, titled the 'Long-Stakes Session'. It must also be said that the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu has also been given the same procedure as in the law currently in force, if anyone's participation in the sitting is not dependent on the one offered by the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. For example, if on the way to the Riigikogu's house a car tire breaks down and it does not get here for the duration of the sitting, it will not cancel the hearing. In the case of remote sittings, it is the same and in this case the President of the Riigikogu has to decide. But if the obstacle is due to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, if we do not have the remote control currently working, then the session will be suspended, the technical failure will be removed and the hearing will continue. And finally, how such a hearing will be announced. The tele-participation hearing must be announced, as the current law states regarding the convening of an extraordinary session, through the media. In the case of a remote sitting, it shall be carried out at least three days before the sitting takes place. If there are compelling reasons, the period of notice may also be shorter. Basically, I have now gone over the main points of this bill. I hope that the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu will accept the proposal of the Constitutional Committee to deal with this draft quickly. Consequently, we are proposing a relatively short deadline for the amendments, namely 24 April at 4 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U133	Ladies and gentlemen, We are at risk that the debate on this issue will not fit within the time set for today's agenda. However, I have a proposal to conclude the debate on this issue today. This means that I propose that today's sitting be extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than two o'clock. If that's okay, I'd be happy to invite everyone to the hall and put it to the vote. I don't see any hostile views. So, ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote the President's proposal to extend this sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but not more than 2 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of this proposal, 1 member of the Riigikogu was opposed. The proposal has received broad support and we will continue to deal with this last, or sixth, item. Now there's a round of questions. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This is a law that extends the work of the Riigikogu and is therefore very important. It provides that, even in the case of a remote session, a member of the Riigikogu must be guaranteed the opportunity to observe the session, to perform real-time operations and, of course, to report obstacles. Technical support must be provided for all of this. And this is covered by § 891 of the Rules of Procedure Act. But there are other things that are troubling. You yourself said that the concerns of a member of the Riigikogu with special needs should be resolved by the Board of the Riigikogu at its own time. Here's my question. Other matters have already been discussed here, but do you think this provision also includes the obligation to provide the necessary technical support for a member of the Riigikogu with special needs? Why has it not been considered necessary in the Commission to supplement the draft with a provision for taking account of people with special needs? It could at least be in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U135	Thank you. According to current law, the management board of the Riigikogu must ensure that people with special needs have access to a large chamber of the Riigikogu, for example. When we talk about physical disabilities, it is the task of the Riigikogu's board to ensure, together with the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, that people can come to this Chamber with a wheelchair. This is rather uncomfortable because you have to go up to the L-wing and take the elevator, and it is only there that you can get into the Riigikogu hall, but it is arranged. Similarly, you have been given the opportunity to use special tools so that you can participate in the Riigikogu sitting better. In current law, all this is already guaranteed. And, as I said, our wish was to change as little as possible the existing law. Just in order for the Riigikogu to be able to say in advance to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu that technical possibilities must be guaranteed, a provision was added that the Riigikogu's management will have the right to lay down the requirements for the conduct of a remote sitting and the procedures for its implementation. It is clearly stated here that all these conditions must be taken into account. Similarly, from the very beginning, we had the principle that a member of the Riigikogu must have the same rights as a member of the Riigikogu in a remote session as is currently in the Chamber. So it has to be guaranteed. We must, between the first and second readings, see in the Commission whether we need to make further adjustments to some provisions or explanatory notes in order to make it clear that the conduct of a remote sitting also involves taking into account people with special needs. Then it would be clearly stated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U136	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U137	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! My idea is from the Masked Thinker series with a spacious fantasy. Did your working group address a possible situation where, for example, the Government of the Republic does not see the need for Parliament to meet, and our Bureau also does not want to express the existence of this compelling reason, does this demand of 51 people remain somewhat restrictive? I am convinced that after the third year, the majority of Members of Parliament are here, but can we learn from another country how Parliament can better express its will? The other part of the question is that if we had an extraordinary session today in the form of teleworking and 51 delegates were to register, but one of the emissaries, for example, would the session be considered closed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U138	Thank you. Indeed, not only in the working group, but also in the Commission, we discussed various possible scenarios, how it would be possible to torpedo the sitting, how it would be possible to interrupt the sitting, for example, and how we tried to go through other bad or unpleasant scenarios. However, the general understanding is that the general rules of the sitting apply to all of us. If anyone wants to start torpedoing, even in a remote session, decisions cannot be taken, and there are no 51 members of the public. The tradition of our parliament is that the seat of the Chairman of the Riigikogu has always been in the hands of the representative of the coalition, and the Chairman of the Riigikogu always summons the board of the Riigikogu. Secondly, there are two coalition ambassadors and one opposition ambassador on the Board of the Riigikogu. And thirdly, when the Riigikogu Board discusses this with one another, there is a possibility that the Riigikogu Board will not reach a consensus on convening a meeting. Then it must be decided by the great hall, or we must decide it together. So these options have been discussed. I believe, however, that the victory of common sense is that all Members understand that when urgent decisions are needed, when there is a need for an electronic gathering or a remote gathering, everyone still does so within the limits of their conscience and within the framework of this mandate, which, among other things, says that we remain true to constitutional order.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U139	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U140	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu does not establish the quorum required for the sitting, except in the case of an additional sitting and an extraordinary session. The remote sitting extends our job opportunities and is likely to be discussing not only exceptional issues. Why don't you explain why the committee found that a quorum is required in the case of a remote sitting, i.e. more than half of the members of the Riigikogu participate?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U141	Yeah, thanks! Indeed, we were discussing what requirements should be applied and whether, for example, the three of us could also have a hearing and hold a remote sitting. But the general understanding of the committee, or the understanding of all the political groups, was that since this is a very exceptional case, the first rule is that the Riigikogu is meeting in this Chamber, the second rule is that the Chairman of the Riigikogu, in this case, you have the right to convene the Riigikogu somewhere else. And the third option: if we really have to go to a remote sitting, in order to increase legitimacy and to keep Parliament properly operational in the case of remote sittings, it makes sense to apply the same requirements as in the case of extraordinary sittings and supplementary sittings. However, if the political groups feel that this requirement can be alleviated, we will, of course, discuss it in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In the opinion of both the working group and the Commission, it is more reasonable to keep this threshold slightly higher for an exceptional undertaking such as a remote session. Parliament's main objective must still be the debate in the large Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U142	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In order to prepare the draft, a working group of members of the Riigikogu was set up in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with one member from each political group. And the staff in the office also helped. Were the proposals that you mentioned in your presentation suitable for all members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? In other words, did you have any arguments, or did everyone agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U144	The proposals that have arrived in this Chamber are all adopted by consensus. We, of course, had a debate. For example, if at the very beginning we set up teas that we should follow, the first question was immediately whether, in theory, the members of the Riigikogu could also be given the right to participate in ordinary sessions in the form of distance participation. In today's session, for example, someone would participate either from their room in the castle or from their home or on the road, using, for example, 4G or one by one data link. That's the debate we went through. What has now arrived in this hall, was approved by consensus, i.e. the 176 SE approved by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U145	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U146	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I am of the opinion that at least the explanatory statement must be supplemented. I would like to give an example that the explanatory memorandum states that the Chancellery of the Riigikogu must provide the ambassadors with the necessary or sufficient IT support. However, at the same time, there may be something else in support of a special need, at least from the point of view of this draft. IT support is a broad concept. I come to the subject that the preliminary costs of this draft have now been estimated at EUR 300000, which the Riigikogu is applying for from the reserve of the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Has this sum been put together in the light of the needs of the current Riigikogu and does it also include support from special needs such as translation, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U147	Thank you. Indeed, the explanatory memorandum also sets out possible costs. Of course, these costs will be specified when the procurement is specifically carried out. After all, we all understand that it is not possible to create a long-distance form of work without costs. The best expert analysis that the working group and the committee could use was, of course, the support of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. They offered that the work would be in two stages. The first and fastest investment that should be made so that we can have an electronic remote control, or tool, like we have on the table today, would cost the order of 300,000. When we talk about a whole change in the voting system prepared by the Registry, it could cost a million-and-a-half euros. So these sums are different. But, of course, if Parliament adopts this law, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu will have a duty to prepare all these changes in a bitter manner. Currently, the members of the Riigikogu are provided with computers as tools. Similarly, it must be ensured that the work done with the computer is suitable for all members of the Riigikogu according to their needs. I hope we can solve this problem. I certainly agree that the explanatory statement needs to be clarified. As I said, we will examine whether or not there is still a need to change the wording. At first glance, it seems that there is no need to change the wording, the explanatory memorandum and the guidelines of the Riigikogu Board to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu are sufficient to ensure that it is necessary. But it will certainly not be possible to conduct a session if no member of the Riigikogu is able to attend a sitting with a distance participation due to a technical obstacle I mean a technical obstacle in principle, not for example that the data link is down or that there is no Internet connection at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U148	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U149	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! My question is driven by the news that some members of the Riigikogu have been invited from some faraway country to the Riigikogu. There once was news that someone had to fly in from Madagascar separately from their family. Can this compelling reason be applied by the board if the bill requires at least 51 votes in favour, but, for example, the delegation of the Riigikogu is currently abroad? Will they be given the right to vote in a remote session? Can the requirement of at least 51 votes be a valid reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U150	Thank you for that question. If my memory is not deceived, the example you gave was not about the work of the Riigikogu, but about the work of the Tallinn City Council. But be that as it may. In answering your question in particular, I will explain that our principle, which also received a letter of the text of the draft law, was still that the tele-participation session would not replace the ordinary session. It can't be that if you and the delegation are on a mission somewhere, so that a remote sitting is implemented in order to gain more than three or four votes. No, that's not a goal. The first dispute we had in the working group, and also in the Commission, was which principles must be taken into account in the case of a remote sitting, or for which we are creating this possibility at all. Everyone understood in the same way that we are still creating it for exceptional occasions when we cannot hold a ordinary sitting in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu or anywhere else. To this end, we must create the possibility that all members of the Riigikogu must be guaranteed the possibility of participating in a remote session. Not in cases where you or anyone else is not in Tallinn. That's what I said in my report.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U151	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, During the emergency situation caused by the pandemic, teleworking boundaries are being tested worldwide. When you prepared this draft, you certainly caught the eye, and you have information on whether Parliament is already working in this form anywhere in the world. And even more interesting is the question of what information you have about the almost oldest British parliament in the world. What do they think about this remote form?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U153	Thank you. Indeed, we asked our analysis department to collect world practice and we have a pretty comprehensive overview of the work of all, not all, but a large part of the European Parliament, as well as the work of the Congress and the Senate of the United States. While I am trying to summarise this very briefly, Bulgaria has practically stopped the work of Parliament's plenary and committees in exceptional circumstances. In some countries, both plenary and committee sessions are limited, only priority and time-critical issues are addressed. These are Belgium, Spain, the Netherlands, Croatia, Ireland, let us say that a large part of Europe. I'm not going to count everyone here. There are fewer countries where only committee sittings are restricted. These are Austria, Greece, Finland and the Czech Republic. In Finland, all major debates take place. The countries where the work of this House and the committees continues largely in their normal format were, at least on 16 April, when we collected the data, Malta, Sweden, the United Kingdom, Hungary and the United States. There are small additions. The United Kingdom went on Easter leave early, and Sweden has given Parliament's leadership guidelines to focus on priority issues, just as our focus at the beginning was. For example, teleworking in committees is used in Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, the Lower House of Spain, Croatia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Norway, Poland, France in limited numbers, Romania, Germany, Slovenia, Finland, Denmark and Switzerland. And there are some countries that also use proxy voting, i.e. with a mandate. These options have been tested by France and the Netherlands says that their law would, in principle, allow them to do so, and the United Kingdom is also looking at this a little bit. The possibility of remote voting has been created or is being created by Spain, Poland and Romania. Behind Greece, we have a little question mark here. But this in-depth analysis has been done in our analysis department, and we've got that overview.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U154	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U155	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The question again about "Mask thinker." We imagine that some members of the Riigikogu have represented our parliament in another country. Under some circumstances, he has no ID-card in the vicinity or simply a coup and telegraph and mail in this small country has been conquered and there is no communication with Estonia. However, we have an important voting process. This MP cannot suspend his mandate to become an alternate to the Riigikogu. In this situation would it be acceptable to have a facial recognition, remote recognition method performed by Estonian notaries? Was that discussed? Not only in a crisis situation, but also in another situation where a Member cannot return home.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U156	Thank you. The law currently in force also takes into account a situation in which a Member cannot participate in Parliament's work. As I said, the simplest option is that you drive this way and your car's tire breaks and you won't be able to vote. And, unfortunately, there is the so-called '51 votes' bill, and your vote also depends on whether or not the bill goes through. Well, there's a good chance you'll be able to take the chairman's break. There are, however, procedural ways of keeping Parliament's work under control: breaks, long speeches, Bureau breaks, etc. But giving up a mandate is not so easy in the current law that you just call somewhere and say that I'm giving up my mandate now. Similarly, the new Member cannot take office in a simple way because it requires a decision of the Republic Election Committee. As far as this theoretical possibility is concerned, as I said, yes, it is purely theoretically possible to have the situation that the Board of the Parliament convenes a sitting with remote participation and that all members of the Riigikogu have been notified of it and that member of the Riigikogu, who is away from Estonia, can participate in the same way if he finds this possibility online. And if, for any reason, he cannot participate, as I said, it is possible to give his wish or vote in any other way that the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu must allow. However, it will be necessary for each political group to give one person to the voting committee, who will then fix this vote if you are abroad and cannot use the electronic voting system. Your voice may be considered to be passed on by telephone, for example. So, yes, we went through these options, but we still have to rely to a large extent on the fact that there is also technical capacity to participate in a remote session.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U157	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It is somewhat strange that, even in an emergency, in a crisis situation, we are increasingly dependent on technology, although we should be prepared not to depend on technology. But the truth is that situations can be very different and the level of readiness must also be different. My question is the preparation of technology. Did you also talk about how quickly we could develop a solution that would cost EUR 300000 as a minimum package to create a new technological capacity? And did you discuss the fact that we've made this Volis environment for the municipalities how it works? Could it be possible to transpose it in some cases, or is it necessary for Parliament to develop a separate solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U159	Thank you. We really did. I am very pleased and I would very much like to congratulate the people of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu who contributed to this in both the technological and the legal aspects, helping to prepare this draft. Indeed, the issues you asked about were also covered. Firstly, as regards the cost of the system and the time of its development, the cost is EUR 300000, as you mentioned. The fastest solution could take up to two months, which was the evaluation of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. How is it in real life, given the constraints we have, it becomes clear when you go to the procurement. But the initial estimate was that it could take about two months for this simplest, elementary capability, or electronic remote capability. A longer process to rebuild the whole system naturally takes more time. Yeah, we've also been through the Volis owned by the municipalities. However, the understanding was that since in the system of processing our drafts, or in the EMS, as we know it, the necessary functionality exists both for viewing the drafts and for reading the explanatory notes as well as for everything else, the most sensible thing is not to build a new system and not to integrate some of the adjacent systems, but to use the billing system to create this additional capacity. This assessment has been passed on to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and now to the large hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-21_U160	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. Is there a desire on behalf of the political groups to negotiate? I don't see that wish. The negotiations can therefore be deemed to be exhausted and the proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 176. There has been no other proposal. First reading is over. The deadline for tabling amendments is 24 April at 4 p.m. Our trial today is over. Thank you very much, everyone. Closure of the sitting at 1:14 p.m.
