ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government! Let's start our weekly briefing. First, we'll run a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U2	17 members of the Riigikogu are present, 84 are absent. Today's Question Time will be attended by the following members of the government: Minister of Finance Martin Helme, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Rural Affairs Arvo Aller and Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology Raul Siem. As usual, first the pre-registered questioners will get the floor, who will also have the opportunity to ask a more specific question, and then they will be able to ask an additional question from the floor. The length of the question is two minutes, three minutes to answer. As usual, before the session of the Riigikogu begins, we leave time for a hall call.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U3	The first questioner is Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and is answered by Finance Minister Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U4	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Before we go out of control of the corona crisis in this Question Time, I will ask you about a decision taken last week by the government that you approved the allocation of more than 4.5 billion euros for Estonia for the next seven years. We're talking about euro money. On Friday afternoon, a fairly general note appeared on the Ministry of Finance's page, where the details are still not opened, not even afterwards, with any substantive involvement, including informing Parliament's Committee on Monetary Affairs or any other committees, did not even ask them for an opinion this time for a gram. It is now known that, for example, the part of Ida-Viru County intended to exit oil shale energy was dealt with by the government in such a way that the steering committee, which worked very hard for more than six months, had been told that their proposals would be expected by the beginning of the year, probably knowing that the government had already taken a decision by that time. In this way, unfortunately, local entrepreneurs and people remained in a rather silly position. In my opinion, this rather bizarre secrecy with regard to the decision to share money on the future development of Estonia with such a great influence and volume is not just unprecedented, but can stop or stall the introduction of all this money. In fact, the European Commission attaches great importance to inclusion. My question is how you will improve on the government side that inclusion, including the involvement of Parliament's Committee on Monetary Affairs, has not been fully implemented in this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U5	Thank you. In my opinion, it was a normal and normal process of involvement. I have to admit that I was not involved, but the municipalities, the entrepreneurs, this steering group and the officials really held regular meetings, made idea collections, sifted opportunities. Of course, it has to be understood that in the summer, in July, when the principles of a fair transition fund were agreed, the real conditions had not yet been agreed very clearly, i.e. there was no regulation under which we can say whether one project or another project or an idea could or will not receive money. We didn't even have it in place in the autumn when we made the budget, at all, very precisely. I understand, of course, that feedback has also come to the members of the Riigikogu that there is a murmuring, because the proposals and wishes to receive money from this fair transition fund were different things, just as usual, in the case of the state budget and euro money, there are just as many times more than the money itself. So there must have been a lot of people who came up with their proposals or ideas, but still didn't fit into that distribution. They must also have expressed their dissatisfaction in one, another, or third way. The government's view of the matter is, of course, wider. The government must look at the fair transition fund and put it first, of course, in the context of the development of Ida-Virumaa, in the context of climate policy, but also in the context of the use of the rest of the euro money, in the context of the objectives of "Estonia 2035" and the context of the RES, and they must all match. When local governments come up with very interesting and often really talented ideas, it doesn't necessarily mean they fit in the rest of the matrix. But if you say that there has been no involvement, it is certainly not true, or if they say that there has been no debate or that it is some sort of a process beyond the corner, I do not know what to do with this criticism. I would add that what we decided last week in the government was a fundamental distribution of measures. If we have 200 million in one measure, then what projects are going to be back there or how that 200 million is going to be distributed is not yet. It hasn't even been announced yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U6	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, a specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U7	Thank you. Good minister! Perhaps then we will have a different understanding of inclusion. A very large part of the response focused on the Fair Transfer Fund, but in fact my question was not even about the Fair Transfer Fund, but about the size of the EUR 4.6 billion (I might be mistaken for the decimal place here) which is much, much higher than the Fair Transfer Fund of 340 million. But with regard to the fair transition fund, there indeed the funds originally intended for the exit of oil shale energy to Ida-Viru County decided to expand surprisingly to three counties, and Lääne-Viru and Jõgeva are now included. Well, a very big grunt (you call it murmuring) comes from the east side of Virumaa. Indeed, involvement and I say once again that the involvement of the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the Riigikogu has also unfortunately not been possible. It's gonna have to be fixed. But my second question is about decisions relating to the corona crisis, even the failure to make decisions. If restrictions are to be imposed in order to control the crisis, these restrictions must, of course, be precisely targeted, but they must also be accompanied by a support package for those whose actions will be affected by the restrictions. This certainly applies to tourism-related areas in general, as well as catering and entertainment activities. The government has now argued that these areas should primarily turn to the EAS for support. At the same time, operators say that the EAS measures will not help them. I would ask you to speak up about the specific support and assistance available to those catering and, more generally, tourism-related enterprises whose activities are already subject to the restrictions imposed by the government and possibly also to the extension of restrictions. Will the wage subsidy continue or will there be something else? Please speak up!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U8	Thank you. I really understood that we were talking about the fair transfer fund before, but of course it is true that there are more of these funds. There's a seven-year budget plan, there's a recovery plan, there's CO2 money. All of this together is indeed a very considerable amount. The Fair Transfer Fund is of a size of 350 million and has significantly different conditions than MFF or RRF, for example. Now for three counties. Indeed, Estonia can request that this not only work in this county. This aspect must be taken into account: Estonia's counties are, as a rule, smaller than other European countries. There's a "region" and that's all we have. The county is one region. For example, the same Aseri that moved to [the other county] in the course of the administrative reform and which is affected by this transition. In fact, the system would be very inflexible if we could not have the municipalities bordering Ida-Viru County do the projects. I think what we want to do here is sensible and flexible. As far as catering and tourism are concerned, I would remind you that we have not left them without support. We took several measures in the additional budget in the spring, for at least 35 million. We have made separate decisions in the autumn from the government reserve in the order of 6 million dollars. Last week, there was a government, and we should also be able to confirm next week that 8 million will go to catering and accommodation companies. We all understand that for an industry that has lost several hundred million, it is a small amount. But I suppose, at least, the Reform Party agrees that in view of the balance of the budget and the level of debt, we cannot take all the loss of income into the taxpayer's account. That is something we have never promised. I don't think anyone's asking us to. We are still talking about some crisis measures to help the sector at least adapt and somehow survive or survive. That's what we've done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U9	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U10	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Is it true that the cultural sector is 100% excluded from the RRF budget of the European billion-budget recovery fund? If so, please explain why. The cultural sphere has been severely affected by the crisis, and not only in Estonia, it is the case throughout Europe. As far as I know, the European Parliament has recommended that at least 2% of the RRF and other funds be allocated to support the cultural sector. Culture is an integral part of our daily lives and also a very important economic area. You probably know better than I do that Estonia employs more people in the cultural and creative fields than in the European Union. Allegedly, the Ministry of Culture has sent a large number of proposals to participate in this budget. Have you really rejected all the proposals in the field of culture? Why? What was missing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U11	Thank you. That's not true. There's nothing to accept that I'm some kind of ludit who wants to see destruction and hunger in the cultural field. Even a fair transition from the fund is provided for the cultural sector in its own drawer, just as in RRF and MFF. I cannot tell you these numbers now, but I am simply pointing out that projects in the field of culture are also very often financed, say, under the lines that fall under the name of the field of education or integration. We have booked this money from this euro money, quite remarkably, also under regional policy measures. Cultural funding is often under regional policy measures. If you now take this aspect that, yes, the Ministry of Culture has made its proposals and many of these proposals have not entered into agreements, then the problem is not that the Ministry of Finance or the Minister of Finance does not want them, but that the problem is that the euro money regulations relating to the spending of this money impose certain considerable conditions. We all know for sure that the European Union has its priorities elsewhere. The priorities of the European Union are a digital revolution, a green turn, as well as some other specific things. But, for example, from this same digital revolution, the cultural sector gets money. So here we need to be able to read correctly, and we need to be able to take advantage of these opportunities in order to channel extra money from external funds to the cultural field.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U12	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U13	The next question will be asked by Indrek Saar and will be answered by Finance Minister Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U14	Thank you for the floor. Well, then, Minister, this is it. In August, the Social Democrats repeatedly asked the government whether we had a plan for schools to meet this autumn. This plan was made and made, the responsibility was put on the hands of schools and local authorities. In September, we said that instead of arguing about whether or not a mask can be imposed, a clear recommendation could be made at least to wear masks indoors. This too took almost two months before this prevention was achieved. In mid-September, we submitted a draft to compensate for the sick days in order to prevent the spread of infection, so that the workplace sites do not disperse, which has also been brought to the attention of the Health Board since September. But now we're in a situation where there's no other choice, the government is imposing additional and powerful restrictions. As a member of your government, do you also feel responsible that we have reached a health situation where, unfortunately, all kinds of indicators set records, not only within Estonia, but in some cases in the context of Europe? Why weren't we doing prevention in time? Why did we not speak in the language of clear messages about the serious situation, the second wave inevitably comes and must be prepared for it? Why didn't we do prevention?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U15	Thank you. I am happy to take responsibility and I would like you to congratulate me on this responsibility, too. Last week, news came out that the Estonian economy is the third best in Europe in terms of how it has dealt with the corona crisis. We are basically at the very top of how well we have dealt with the corona crisis in Estonia economically, but also in terms of the number of deaths (we put the second number aside here). Estonia has handled the corona crisis perfectly, and I would like both the opposition and the public to commend us for it, and we will take responsibility for it. This has been the result of informed policy options. The claim that we didn't know or didn't understand or didn't know that the second wave was going to have to be on-- I don't know what it was based on. Everyone has realized that when, after the low season of summer, it first opened up in Western European countries and came closer and closer to Central European countries, the growth of the coronation will reach Estonia as well. There's a second wave in Estonia. I think the government has been communicating this for about the last month and a half. We have made selected, targeted restrictions and measures to keep the infection in the lowest possible tide, which has also succeeded. We are infected by numbers, say, one of the countries where the second wave of infection reached most later and where the rise has been quite flat compared to many other countries. Yes, it is true that in these countries, such as Belgium, Ireland or some central European country, for example in Italy, where the second wave has passed and where very strict measures were taken (in Belgium, people were essentially house arrest for several weeks in a row), these measures have resulted in a significant reduction in infection. They're at a lower level than we are now, but that's because they went farther and farther than what we've come to by now. When we talk about Belgium, there were about 1250 infections per 100,000 inhabitants. The record states have been on the 1400s. We're at 400, not 1400, but 400. If the situation has called for this, we have taken the next steps. On Tuesday this week, too, the Scientific Advisory Board presented to the government a number of proposals that would need to be made. I will certainly be able to talk more about them during the next question. But the plan is to introduce new restrictions at the government meeting tomorrow, first regionally, or Ida-Viru County, and then a little less restrictive restrictions across the country. So I think we've been very clear on the cost of events and we've done well so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U16	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U17	Thank you for your answer. You won't lack confidence. But I'll come back again to why you didn't do prevention in time. I've already mentioned different dates and distractions. At the beginning of November, experts also presented you with the possible scenarios that have proved to be true today. So far, people who need it can't stay home because they have symptoms. They cannot afford it because sick days are not reimbursed. If they are low-paid, it is not an option for them because they cannot manage their budget. Looking at the disease figures, we can see that they've gone very high. Why didn't we do the preventive action in time? It's very easy to shut everything down at some point, but why didn't we do prevention, what was behind it? Why, for example, do we still have no system to compensate for sick days, preferably on a temporary basis, starting on the first day or at least on the second? It's exactly the same with quarantine. If a person has to remain in quarantine, no one will compensate him. Why have we not dealt with preventive activities when we knew in advance that the situation could be critical? In comparison, Finland, for example, has significantly lower infection rates than we do and their hospitals are not overloaded. Among other things, they have a very good system of compensation for sick days, for example. That, too, is probably one of the reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U18	Thank you. You still have to deal with the self-respect, especially if no one else does. This is what you dealt with throughout this matter when you spoke about your proposal to compensate for sick days. It is perfectly understandable in politics that self - praise must be dealt with. I do not question the fact that compensating for sick days from the first day or the second day contributes to the fact that people with symptoms do not go to work. But I don't know where you've been. After all, we have agreed and approved that, from 1 January next year, the sickness days will be compensated for four months from the second day, not from the first day, but from the second day. I think it's done right here in the hall. I don't know why we have to break in this open door together right now. But I don't agree that it's very easy for us to turn things off. On the contrary, in government policy since the summer or after the spring wave, after the spring emergency situation, when there were restrictions, I would point out that the spring restrictions were not actually too strict, the main difference coming from what was and is the behaviour of people themselves, was a very clear feature that we are avoiding as long as possible the strict closure of society, which we do not want to do. We have been trying to keep society normal as long as possible, both in terms of people's mental health, the normal functioning of society as a whole, and the economy. One of the results of this policy, as I said before, is that the Estonian economy has done much better than it was feared or predicted in spring or when most other European countries have gone. It has been a conscious choice not to quickly and rigorously close society once the first signs of the return or growth of the infection have come. Now we're in a situation where we can't go on like this anymore, and we have to take the next steps, make some further closures. We would like these closures to be as temporary as possible, but this, in turn, requires these closures to be effective in that sense, so that people really avoid contacts as much as possible, so that when we shut down entertainment facilities, for example, or ban sports events, they do not go anywhere else to get infected. These are the steps we're taking. I think we are taking a relatively adequate step, we are going along with what is a social expectation, which is a necessity, and, on the other hand, with what is the right balance to seek or maintain, in order for society to function normally.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U19	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U20	Thank you. Good Minister of Finance! This pandemic is not yet over, and I would not recommend that we hurry to conclude. The infection rates are not only in Ida-Virumaa, but in fact, the whole of Estonia is still growing with a pretty ugly curve. I don't think the hundreds of people who have to spend their Christmas at the hospital agree that the government has done absolutely everything possible to prevent the spread of the infection. I also do not believe that it would be quite adequate to assess the state of the Estonian economy or the impact of this crisis on the economy by looking only at the GDP figures for the second or third quarter, because the crisis is far from over in the economy either. One of the things we can say with certainty that will worsen the state of the economy for many years to come is your own activity as Minister of Finance and the activity of the government as a whole in budgetary policy. In a situation where you boast, I dare say, as a very good state of the economy, you will, however, let both this year, next year and the whole visible future, even though it has been predicted that the economy will grow into a very large deficit budget. You let the economy down mainly to cover current costs, which means that this minus spins and spins and creates a deficit even when the pandemic is long gone. After all, this deficit, which continues to accumulate, must be paid by the private sector and taxpayers, which is why the competitiveness of the Estonian private sector will deteriorate and the economic climate will deteriorate. My question is simple: how do you feel about how you, as Minister of Finance, have managed to balance the budget with the most important task of budgetary policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U21	Thank you. But we have our differences here. I believe that budget balance is not the most important task at the moment. I basically disagree with that. The question made it look like some kind of mistake is that we have a huge public debt. No, it's not. A great public debt is the instrument with which we ensure the good functioning of the economy in the current situation. You don't understand that, and there's no point in me explaining it. But that is the instrument with which we ensure that there is employment, there is no explosion of unemployment, there is no fall in GDP and there are no social tensions like ten years ago. It's amazing. When there was the previous economic crisis and the Reform Party led the country, we were in the deepest crisis in Europe, the biggest fallout. Strangely, it was viewed as an achievement and praised by the government. Now the government has handled the crisis best, we are among the best in Europe, but we are still being insulted. That's an interesting phenomenon. But once again, yes, the most important objective is not the budgetary balance. The most important objective, I can extend it to my philosophy as a minister of finance, is not the balance of the budget or the carving of the budget, but the most important goal is the well-being of the Estonian economy, because there comes the good fortune of the Estonian people. Well, here we are, basically seeing things differently again. We're living at a critical moment right now. We have actually come through the first economic shock, we have spent a lot of 'debt' on it, and we have another year ahead. I fully agree, the crisis is not over, the economic crisis is not over either. The next most dangerous part of the economic crisis is not our domestic decisions, but the most dangerous part is what happens to our main trading partners. Once again, a very dangerous place is what happens to the world's money markets. There's been a lot of really scary hiccups around here. In this situation, it is not the time to take your foot off the pedal of spending, but the time to push down the pedal of spending.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U22	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U23	Next question, number three. It will be presented by Urmas Kruuse and will be answered by the Minister of Rural Affairs, Arvo Aller. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U24	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I would also like to say a small remark to the Minister of Finance. If there had been a government today during the previous crisis, Estonia would probably not have joined the euro. You will continue to try to compare two crises that are completely incomparable. This shows that you do not understand the substance of economic logic. But the question is indeed for the Minister for Rural Affairs. Yesterday, there was a PMAN meeting at the Ministry of Rural Affairs. PMAN is the Agriculture and Rural Development Council, which is an advisory body for the Minister for Rural Affairs and the Ministry of Rural Affairs, with business, industry and scientific sector representatives. The surprise of the sector's representatives was quite high when it was found that the allocation of 12 million so-called crisis aid has already been decided. Why was the surprise so big? For a number of reasons. I recall the meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs, which took place on 16 November, where the Minister said very clearly that the substantive cross-sectoral distribution is proposed in PMAN and decided within December, and once this internal distribution has been made, the application for State aid will also be submitted to the European Commission. It now became clear that the 12 million distribution plan was actually decided on 10 November at the meeting of the Cabinet. Incredible, however, the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 17 November presented a more detailed distribution plan, which means that restrictions had been introduced on what was supposedly decided in the Cabinet. When we tried to find out where they came from, we were not able to respond very clearly. Minister for Rural Affairs, can you tell us why you had to blind us in the Committee on Rural Affairs? What was the point of this? If you had made it clear that a political decision had been made in the government office, and let the sector know that this is and will be the case, it would not have been necessary. Please tell me why you did this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U25	Thanks for the question, good questioner. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Thank you, of course, for confirming the possible allocation of 12 million to the agricultural and rural sectors by the Government of the Republic, but also thanks to the Riigikogu, who shared the 12 million with the Ministry of Rural Affairs with the changes in the state budget. However, if you ask about 16 and 17 November, it was indeed 12 million at the Cabinet meeting and it was decided that it would come into the administration of the Ministry of Rural Affairs with the state budget for 2020; the Ministry of Rural Affairs would have to propose and ask for authorisation from the European Commission to pay out state aid. It's being dealt with. The conditions for crisis relief measures and the distribution plan are in the process of negotiating with the sector. When you say that there has not been a dialogue with the sector, I would remind you that the representative organisations of the agricultural organisations proposed 24 million applications and subsidies for the agricultural sector. Thanks to the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic, an opportunity has been found to satisfy this request in the agricultural sector with 12 million. What sectors will it be divided into? The representative organisations proposed beef. The beef's on the list. The representative organisations proposed pig farming. It says pig farming. Representative organisations proposed dairy cows. The dairy cows are accounted for. The representative organisations proposed sheep and goats. Everything's on the list. The representative organisations proposed gardening. The gardening is covered. Similarly, organic products, organic cereals, were offered. Organic cereals are listed separately, they are listed separately. Organic production also includes organic bovine animals, organic dairy cows, organic goats, chains, organic gardening products. The sector has been very strongly taken into account here, and the sector has also seen that their wishes and expectations have been met.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U26	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U27	I understand that the honourable Martin Helme gave you a little advice on how to continue to blur in your answers. Excellent training in that sense. But you understand very well that I was referring specifically to: there was a division at the cabinet session, a fundamental decision to allocate 12 million, a distribution plan was already agreed at the next session, but there was a more detailed distribution plan in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. What you're saying is a dark example. For a very simple reason. You're talking about pigs. In the Commission, you also told us that it was not decided whether they would be paid for sows or fattened. There's a fundamental difference. The villagers are already joking about whether Kadri's golden sows have started running for public money again, because it says here that they are paid for sows who are involved in so-called performance testing. Did you notice what the representative of the Chamber of Agriculture said yesterday at the committee meeting? After all, they were very clearly disappointed that you did not take into account their calculations and distribution principles, which also concerned the dairy sector. The needs and value of the dairy sector are clearly greater in nature. This means that if the dairy cow receives EUR 20.30, the golden pig, the sow, will receive EUR 200. There's a fundamental difference. Why did you have to blur along with the Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Aivar Koka, who said that the Minister for Rural Affairs or the Ministry of Rural Affairs proposed how to share this money? This table, made in an invisible milk letter, became an additional table in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it was also sent to this Chamber and it was said to be hypothetical. But you said yesterday at the committee meeting that this was a distribution plan decided by the Riigikogu. What are you blinding me for? Tell me you had an appointment before and you just couldn't get past the Minister of Finance. It'll be all right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U28	Thank you for the clarification. I would like to remind you once again that the agricultural sector has proposed, and what has been pointed out here, the meat cattle, the pigs, the dairy cows, the sheep, the goats, are all covered. On this distribution plan, you say we're dimming. In this sense, there is no confusion. The Ministry of Rural Affairs brought 12 million into the government. Very well, we are very grateful to the government for the opportunity we have found. Then it was necessary to find the sectors to be given. We went to [government] with a list of sectors where money is needed. The government agreed in principle that these sectors could be supported by 12 million. Whether this percentage is 18, 17 or 15, that's another question we can look at according to who's asking it. Why have dairy cows received such a sum? In the case of dairy cows, direct payments still exist. Dairy cow farmers also receive direct payments, on the mainland for cattle with up to 400 cows and on the islands for cattle with more than 400 cows. In this respect, I do not think that milking is part of the orphanage. Milk is one of our export articles, milking is a very important source of added value for us, and it also creates jobs in rural areas. In this sense, I cannot agree with you at all, as I should do all these things on the basis of the proposals of the Minister for Finance. Of course, we'll discuss these things. Of course, the entire cabinet is discussing these matters. Of course, all coalition partners are involved in financing the agricultural sector as much as possible and as fairly as possible. As far as support is concerned, let us not forget one thing: very much thanks to the Riigikogu for the change that we have lowered special diesel fuel excise duties. This is one of the most important ways for farmers to get their money. We cut the excise duty from EUR 133 to EUR 100 in the spring. It is a very tangible money that remains in the hands of farmers, and it is also one of the crisis relief measures that can be used by all the agricultural sectors that were on the list before and with which we can move forward. So I think this is the best possible solution in the current situation with the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U29	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U30	Thank you. First of all, if I may, I will comment a little on the question put by Mr Kruus. You repeated several times that the government found a way. At the same time, we know that, in fact, both this year and next year, the budget is several billions in deficit, and this opportunity found is simply to write up the taxpayer's bill. There's nothing to look for or find, you're just spending as much as you can. It is all the more paradoxical that for some very important areas, this possibility is not found in this bottomless residue. But my question is a little more general. This may not even have such a direct impact on rural areas, but is wider. Are you discussing this in the government? There are measures that are specifically designed to address the crisis, so that whatever area, be it agriculture, be it tourism, be it catering, can cope better with the crisis, businesses do not go bankrupt and people do not lose jobs. Do you have any format for analysing who exactly and how these measures should go under? Why am I asking that? I have been asked by companies in a number of areas who, objectively and with complete certainty, have been hit in the crisis and have been hit precisely because of the restrictions of the virus or the government, but they fall somehow between the two. Let me give you an example: the boarding service of aircraft. It is not tourism, it is not under this measure, nor is it a restaurant. But objectively, if planes don't fly, there's no one to feed. Is there any way you can analyze these things in the government? Are you prepared to look at these things flexibly so that sectors do not get hit so painfully?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U31	Thank you. Of course, the government is discussing a variety of ways to cope with the current crisis and during the Coronavirus pandemic. Let's be honest, the government doesn't shut anything down because it just wants to shut it down. We're still looking at the broader picture in the context of the corona. The Korona has caused us difficulties and challenges, and we should be able to survive this time together. As far as catering is concerned, plane catering can be considered as part of the HoReCa sector, catering'. They have been hit and received various grants in spring through EAS and KredEx. You shake your head and you think it wasn't like that. Perhaps the following speakers will be able to clarify. At the same time, I know that those who were active in rural areas had the opportunity to apply for a revolving loan and an investment loan from the MES in order to obtain working capital in a crisis situation, to make decisions for the future, so that the crisis would be easier to survive. It will also be seen that apart from the corona crisis, it will be possible to expand its activities and also to bring more money to the Treasury and the state budget. I think that it is very important, in the case of rural areas, rural areas and agriculture, that this possible application for loan and guarantee has come through the MES. As additional measures, the government will certainly discuss the future every week. All I can say is that we're always watching what's going on in the terrain. We keep an eye on the troubles. If we do not see it ourselves, we will also receive weekly letters and draw attention to where there could be opportunities for support and financial resources. So we are in a very diverse field of information, and on this basis we must make good decisions together with the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U32	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U33	Next question, No 4, author Katri Raik and he will be answered by Finance Minister Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U34	Good President! Minister, thank you for finally taking the decision to impose clear restrictions in Ida-Virumaa. The recommendation does not affect the local population very much; there must be clear arrangements; now it has come. Obviously, it's a little late, but that's what it is. It's easier to be smart in the back. But what kind of support should Ida-Virumaa receive? I am talking about financial support, but I am not talking about money for a fair transition right now. I am thinking of support for two hospitals, I am thinking of support for the Police and Border Guard Board, which supports the Health Board in making people wear masks. I stopped by Narva train station last Sunday, where masks were shared. Not all people put them on. This is a very important job that is being done. What about the wage subsidy? What about paying off the first day of sickness? I consider this very important, especially in Ida-Virumaa, where work is done in a different way than we do with you, Mr Minister. This is work that comes into contact with each other, where it is necessary to be present in production, and when one production cycle dies, all production will not be delivered. In your opinion, what should be the state's support and very rapid support for Ida-Virumaa in order to give people confidence?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U35	Thank you. Yes, last week we set separate conditions or additional conditions for Ida-Viru County compared to other Estonia. Yeah, there were special conditions in Harjumaa, too. Tomorrow we will have proposals in the government, which, I believe, we will also approve, which will provide for tightening restrictions throughout Estonia, but again more in Ida-Viru County. Among other things, we plan to stop leisure activities, all public events, close cinemas, theatres, concerts, museums, exhibitions, catering facilities are only available for co-sales, sports clubs, spas, swimming pools and accommodation facilities for three weeks. Of course, a compensation mechanism will also be developed for all the institutions that are being shut down by the government. This does not mean that all their loss of income or total turnover will be compensated, but some sort of compensation mechanism similar to what was in spring is planned. We also plan to close the border crossings in Ida-Virumaa in essence, only trade will remain, and to start considerably stricter monitoring of the implementation of isolation obligations and the control of the requirements that we already have, i.e. 50% coverage in shops, establishments or churches, for example. Shops, but also churches will remain open at Christmastime. So these are separate restrictions in Ida-Virumaa. In other parts of Estonia, we plan to close all educational establishments from next week, both primary schools, upper secondary schools, vocational schools and higher education institutions in principle until the end of the year. Next year, the studies will continue as planned. Of course, the situation is dynamic. I'd like to say a little bit about what I'm gonna say about the tone that you're finally gonna do something. We are constantly monitoring the situation and always reacting to it and reacting when the time is right. The government cannot act like some panicky plow, but we must consider the functioning and interest of society as a whole, as well as the functioning and ability of the medical system. If you ask what help has been given to hospitals, medical doctors from both Tallinn and Tartu have been sent to hospitals. Police and Border Guard Board, we have a nationwide structure. If he's sending extra troops there, it's the distribution of his internal resources. We know there's extra payments. The subject of the first sick day we've actually been through today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U36	Katri Raik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U37	There was no real response to these same support measures. I'd rather not ask what happens if Ida-Viru County still has half the number of people in the hospital tomorrow than there are today. But I'm gonna ask you a question. I'm worried about the headlines. Perhaps you have not noticed this, but a local entrepreneur writes that the state has abandoned them. This is the issue of the security of our country's servant when the entrepreneur begins to write that way. Please tell me if the oil plant is coming or not and how the money for the fair transfer is still distributed in proportion between the three counties. These are two questions that people are linking directly to the Estonian state and to what they expect of the Estonian state at the time of the Coronary. The corona period ends once and for all. Will there be an oil factory and how much of the fair transfer fund money remains in Ida-Virumaa? These little pieces, which were attached to Ida-Viru County before the administrative reform, are not very large.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U38	Thank you. Yeah, that's right. I don't read the papers, I save my mental health, I don't know anything smart about it anyway. But yesterday in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we had a very interesting and perturbing debate about the oil plant. I've confirmed that the investment plan for the oil plant is in effect and is moving on. I am saying here what I said yesterday in the Committee on Economic Affairs that today's government has absolutely no plan that we will stop in Estonia from producing oil shale and from decompensating oil shale. If we reduce the production of oil shale electricity, we will find other, more productive and better applications for oil shale oil or oil shale chemistry. This is, I think, also a very important message for this region. Of course, entrepreneurs are, of course, mainly entrepreneurs in the entertainment, tourism and catering sectors, who are in total distress and whose companies have virtually collapsed. As I said at the beginning, we cannot save all of them and we cannot compensate for all their income or all their turnover. This would probably not be the kind of action that anyone would require or find wider social acceptance. Some businesses need to adapt and some businesses have actually run out of their business to date. From this hall, it all seems abstract. In real people's real life, it's actually a personal tragedy, and I just don't want to make it look like it doesn't work or it doesn't concern us all. For hospitals, I'm still saying that hospitals have been given help. The Estonian Government just recently allocated an additional EUR 8 million to pay extra costs to hospital staff, both for overtime and for hard work. From Ida-Viru hospitals, patients have been moved to other areas, especially Tallinn and Tartu. Both doctors and nurses have gone from Tallinn and Tartu to help Ida-Viru hospitals. The most critical situation is Narva Hospital and Ida-Viru Central Hospital. We're working on it. This is, of course, the first area of the Minister for Social Affairs. He can tell us more about it in detail. But we're working on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U39	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U40	Thank you. You said in an earlier response that the government has been carrying this virus wave. I think it would be appropriate to say that you've lost it with it, and when it's gone completely out of hand, you've finally woke up, too. I know you've seen the pictures I've seen. Indeed, it cannot be said that the government would not be equipped with adequate information. However, the specific nature of this virus is known to require decision-makers to anticipate by two weeks rather than live in today's day. Let's look at the situation in Ida-Viru County objectively. It got out of hand around 26 or 27 November when you were shown these pictures. That was two weeks ago. Today we have reached a situation where the infection rate in Ida-Viru County is one of the highest in Europe. It's happened in two weeks. One of Europe's highest! Yes, Mr Aller, you and my country have one of the highest levels of infection in Europe. How can it be said that in a situation where hospitals are on the verge of capacity and those who almost double the hospital needs in Ida-Viru County over the next two or three weeks have already become ill that the government has responded in a timely and timely manner in this situation? I don't understand it. Please explain how you can say today when the hospital system in Ida-Virumaa is collapsing and there is one of Europe's highest rates of infection, The second question is about these restrictions, which were finally called out today, two weeks too late. Churches can continue their work. Can you explain if any information indicates that the virus is not spreading in the churches? Or why would such a striking distinction arise?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U41	Thank you. I don't agree with you that we're losing it. It's just your subversive or panic-inciting talk. It's not out of hand. Let's look at the county-based or country-specific numbers: yes, the situation is serious, the hospital network is under great pressure, but the situation is not out of hand. Okay, maybe we'll disagree on how complicated it is. Of course, we've seen these numbers, we've seen these graphs where the confidence intervals are drawn, so if it goes a little bit better, the numbers are like this, if the situation gets out of hand or the slope is faster, the numbers are different. We see these charts twice a week and we make decisions accordingly. There is no point in hiding that the attitude towards reacting more quickly and forcefully or waiting longer and being more calm is different for the members of the government. In this regard, it is good to switch to a question about churches. Churches are not the only ones with exceptions. In the same way for cultural institutions, there are also exceptions for sports institutions, with the argument that yes, there is a risk of infection, but for one reason, another reason or third reason, it is necessary to take that risk for society to function. We have experience of spring when we also closed down churches. It was a very negative experience, and it had a negative effect on people's mental health. We don't want to do this, and we don't really want to do it at Christmas. How do we manage this risk? This is how we mitigate that, for example, in the case of concerts, there is a requirement of 50% coverage, a requirement of masking, a requirement of hand disinfection, there are still certain conditions that are linked to the communion sharing in order for it to be safe. This can be done in such a way that churches are not the place where there is a massive spread of infection. Churches are not the only ones to be granted exemptions or to whom possibilities are sought to take mitigation measures or security measures based on their specificity in order to be able to continue their activities. In broad terms, we have also imposed restrictions on shopping centres, there is a requirement of 50% coverage, there is exactly the same requirement of disinfection, a requirement of masking. We do not simply want to bend our knees and shut down the whole society on the basis of the first more difficult situation. We don't want that. That's why we're looking for ways to do this in a specific, targeted way, so that life can continue to function as normal as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U42	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U43	The next question, in order of number 5, is asked by Andres Sutt and answered by Finance Minister Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U44	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! 6.7 million out of nearly 13 billion, 0.05%, a drop in the sea of money. However, roof money has stabbed the social nerve of Estonian society strongly and painfully. The most scandalous financial allocation: NGO Elu Mars, 141000 + 30000, 171000 in total, its main sponsor is EKRE, its co-sponsors are the Fatherland and the Centre Party. The members of the Monetary Commission have received a few hundred letters asking not to allocate money to the anti-abortion movement. I quote one of them: "Today I should search the Internet for a photographer to photograph my girls on their fifth month's birthday. Instead, I look on real estate portals to exchange our Tallinn home for Helsinki. By supporting such an initiative, you are driving out of Estonia children already born, women to the best hunting grounds, just as I remember during the consultative period, which I remember from childhood, because time is already very similar to that time. " The Association of Estonian Nurses, the Association of Estonian Midwives and the Society of Estonian Women's Doctors have made a joint return and it has very clearly condemned support for the anti-abortion movement, which refers to disregard for the health of the people of our country and shows distrust for both specialists working in this field and the deliberate choices made by the people of our country. Nearly 15,000 citizens oppose the provision of roofing money to the NGO on the March of Life. At the same time, the coalition does not consider it possible to support the amendment in order to create a complex service for sexually abused children in Läänemaa, a nursery. Today, the services of children's houses are regionally guaranteed in Harjumaa, Tartumaa and Ida-Virumaa, but are missing in Läänemaa. That's $200,000. $20,000, not $2 million or $200 million. Why don't you listen to the crowd?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U45	Thank you. We're still listening to the crowd. Different people from the people vote for different political parties. That's clear, too. A little wider than the roof money for an introduction. I know that the Reform Party is now the only flower in the middle of a villain who didn't accept the money from the roof. But it hasn't always been like this. When you were in the government, you liked the money from the roof. You were also able to make your allocation out of this $6.4 million this year, but you wanted someone else to make it $200,000, and then you could make your provision, but you didn't take your money. Well, we didn't give you that pleasure either. If you want to release the money, put your name under it, just like we put our name under the provision for the Mars of Life. The subject of abortion is, yes, in connection with this provision, and I am pleased that it has come up on the agenda. This draws attention to what is also stated in the coalition agreement. There is a very nice point in the coalition agreement that we are working to ensure that there are as many live births as possible in Estonia, that every child is expected and that there are as few abortions as possible. We all know that for years and years and years, the Ministry of Social Affairs has become a very large part of them, even in breach of the budget law, extremely liberal organisations or NGOs, which is somehow called civil society. But civil society, of course, has nothing to do with this. These are the Ministry's ideological contractors with taxpayers' money. I do not know what this has to do with civil society. It's never upset anyone. I am still waiting for the Special Committee on State Budget Control or the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption to raise the issue of the improper use of gambling tax, which I drew attention to during the summer. Nothing! Total silence, chirping crickets. Nobody cared that taxpayers' money was illegally funded by extremist organisations. But now all of a sudden, there's awful screaming. What this anti-abortion NGO is doing is explaining. It's about raising people's awareness, it's about expanding people's understanding. There is no human right, no one's human right is to kill a small child. This is not a human right. It must not be handled in such a key. Yes, we can understand that there are situations where pregnancy needs to be interrupted. In fact, Estonian society would need this debate on what these situations are. Estonian society would also need the debate about the pain of the people who are facing these choices and the support, understanding and support they need in this situation. That's what we're channeling the money for. This is in line with the coalition agreement, all the more so, it is morally noble.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U46	Andres Sutt, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U47	Thank you. Good minister! Never have we supported financial allocations with such a corrupt taste. When, in his time, Prime Minister Siiman's government began to distribute roofing money, the rooftops were actually patched up. It's been a long time, and it's time to put an end to this form of roofing money. You said put your name down. I'm in favour of it with two hands, only show me one venture in the table and a financial allocation, with the name of the supporter, not the beneficiary. It's not there. You will support the Estonian Orthodox Church of Moscow Patriarchate, Jõhvi, the Assembly of God's Appearances and the City of Tallinn. Are these really organisations or municipalities in Estonia that are most in need of help? Holstre Küllaslts has sent a request to the Committee on Monetary Affairs not to grant them EUR 4000 to support the Statue of Freedom of Paistu Parish to install the nameplates of people who have fallen in the War of Independence. The same village society has never approached any member of the Riigikogu about the installation of nameplates to the Statue of Freedom. Regarding the Hellenurme Yacht Society, the locals say that this NGO has nothing to do with the hunting and there are no rooms to repair for the grant. As Minister of Finance, you are responsible for the state budget. You have stressed that the budget must be transparent. He's not now. Why do you support opaque and corrupt money sharing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U48	Thank you. But it doesn't, but it doesn't. Let me remind you that the roof money is shared by Parliament. I have nothing to do with this. The money from the roof is shared by Parliament. What don't you understand? I have not brought here any proposals. If I want to make any proposals for allocating money, I will do so either through the preparation of the budgetary process or through allocations from the government reserve. The allocation of roofing money exists and has existed through Riigikogu formations because the members of the Riigikogu want it. This is what has always happened in the Riigikogu, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and in the large hall. So I didn't make any suggestions, and I didn't sign anything in. These lines are there, if I remember correctly, 666. A particularly scary number, of course. Yeah, you picked some out of there. About that Hellenurme Hunting Society I asked about, and I found out that with this financial allocation, they wanted to get their own rooms. Of course, they don't have any rooms, and that's why they want rooms. To say that money is given to spaces that don't exist is, say, slander. That's what money is for so they can have a place of business. There are still about 600 such proposals. Who will be given what? Even so they can gather somewhere, there's something they can do. Does the City of Tallinn need money? The city of Tallinn's budget is approaching a billion. I guess they'll be able to separate their municipal objects the way they want to. But more than 30 members of the Riigikogu have been elected from Tallinn. Yeah, me too. If there are members of the Riigikogu who want to make any suggestions in their constituency, this is a dispute between you and him. As Minister of Finance, I'm not gonna stick my nose in this, I swear. Don't laugh! No, it's none of my business. That's the money that's being distributed from the government reserve. I have said this several times, I said this during last year's budget and I said this year at the time of the budget: maybe we should cancel, then the government would have more reserve money, so we would have the money here, not you. But look, it's what it is. So I'm not taking responsibility for who's been giving money to what here. In this sense, it is clear that for each line you can ask which ambassador or group he has come from. We are not ashamed of anything that has been asked about. But as a minister, I'm not responsible for any record of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U49	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister for Finance in his duties as Prime Minister. Eesti Päevaleht made a week or two ago an overview of how your views on roofing money have changed. You have once said that it is wise to share it, then you have said that it is unwise to share it so that you can find savings with this money or do something smarter with it. We have a health crisis, the tourism sector is in trouble, the medical sector needs additional investment, and we continue to share money with a corrupt spirit. You just said a moment ago that you didn't know anything about sharing this money and you hadn't intervened in any way. My question is whether or not you support the sharing of the money from the roof. If you don't know anything about this, wouldn't you be lying about it, because, as far as I know, the government must have confirmed it before sending the budget to the third reading, or the government should have confirmed the sharing of the roofing money. There is one other part of this question: if you do not support it and you do not know anything about it, if, in about an hour's time, we will have a third reading of the budget here, will you give the members of the Riigikogu of the EKRE not to support the provision of a guide for roofing money, or will you no longer have a say in your party to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U51	Oh, so many nice questions. Have I finished drinking cognac in the morning yet? It still has to be understood that I work for Parliament and my group, they are my bosses, not I am their boss. Yeah, the party chain's the other way around. I do not read the Estonian Päevaleht, I continue not to read the Estonian Päevaleht and Delfi, so I do not know what they are writing, and I question what they are writing. They're probably making some kind of false news again. But you can definitely find people who say that I've repeatedly said that I don't think it makes any sense to share the money from the roof, that it could stop. But I completely accept that I am very alone with this opinion, both in the government and in Parliament. I do not disagree (if we are now talking about whether I have been in favour of it at one point or another), I do not object to the arguments that the members of the Riigikogu justify the necessity of the roofing money. This reasoning is very simple: it is a concrete, tangible, understandable way of doing something in your electoral area, to show what you have achieved since being in the Riigikogu, to be in opposition or coalition. Even if a member of the coalition goes to his own constituency and tells his constituents that, oh, we did some sort of pension reform thing or a tax cut thing, it's abstract. But to say that, you see, we opened up some kind of light traffic road here, and I brought the money to you, then every person understands it, and the member of the Riigikogu also realizes that it allows him to go before his constituents. That is why this money exists and it is not just the political will to say that we will end it. Is it reasonable that it is practical? Well, every year, everyone gets to blame for it, but they keep doing it. Consequently, at least the majority of the Riigikogu members have the so-called belief that the shame will go away, but the money will remain. That's just it. I think that's why every time you have a heart attack, it's just a kind of ritual dance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U52	Thank you. I will close this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U53	The next question, No 6, is posed by Helmen Kütt and is again answered by Finance Minister Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U54	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister for Finance, with emphasis on the words "Prime Minister's replacement"! First of all, praise. When I ask my husband at home why he doesn't praise me more, he always says that he would praise me if there was a reason. I would now congratulate the government on what was done in the spring. Rapid action, various measures, such as the possibility of opening digital disease leaves, reimbursement of sick days from day one, wage subsidies and very many other social and also economic measures, however, have ensured that we survived this matter relatively easily in the spring. I thought we lived quite well, people were terrified of the evil virus and assumed that the government would take action, knowing, as you pointed out here, that this thing would happen again in the fall. What is the situation now, autumn and winter? It seems to me that crisis management is on people's own shoulders. As scientists Fischer and Lutsar say, there is no reason for optimism. I really think you can't scare me. But there was optimism in September, October and November, although there should have been more action, because then perhaps we would not now be in a situation where very strict restrictions are being imposed by the government. It's a little late. It seems to me that doing the right things at the right time would have been better today. Now we're talking about one-family Christmas and a virtual meeting with our loved ones. I guess that's what's gonna happen. People are actually reasonable, you don't have to lie to them, you don't have to sugarcoat things, you have to be honest with them. I do not think that this has been done, the various ministers have given different signals. Do you really not sense that something should have been done differently, something should have done better? You yourself pointed out that not everyone in the government agreed exactly. But all of a sudden, there's something you're saying that should have been done differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U55	Thank you. I certainly don't want to go this way, that I'm going to somehow share the members of the government here, good and bad, or look for guilty people, that there's something behind them in the government. But the fact is, there have been three main ones, I don't know, an argumentation platform that's been running the government since September. The first is a fully aware choice, and there is quite a clear consensus in the government: we do not want to lock up or shut down society and, if possible, we will avoid it. It has been criticised, we see this criticism now in this Chamber too, but it has been a conscious policy that, as long as it is possible, we will avoid harsh restrictions in society. The second relates to the previous one, it is a clear understanding that whatever decision we take, what limitations we make, it must have broad social support. Compared to spring, the situation is now much different in autumn. There is nothing to look at but the controversy that has been on the subject of masks, which is actually a complete pseudopoletic or pseudothematic. But it describes or shows us that in society, a united and disciplined attitude that was in March-April is now simply no longer there. This means that if we do something, there really must be very compelling arguments or urgent need or pressing public demand. It must not be forgotten that the government still operates within certain limits of legitimacy. If society doesn't agree, we can't force ourselves to do these things. Ultimately, it has also been discussed at the table of the government that if we do nothing and we are at Christmas, I do not know, 1000 or 1500 infections per day, as we can see from the Lithuanian example, this will have its consequences. As a result, there will be 10-15 deaths every day two weeks later. If Estonian society says we're gonna put it like this until spring, then it's gonna be a choice. We do not want this choice, and we are currently doing restrictions so that we do not get there, but that is also the choice. There are also many other options. We have tried to find a balance point where we are making targeted and specific restrictions in order to keep the number of infection as low as possible and, in principle, to endure until the vaccine comes and spring comes. There's a big argument here. I would like to point out that these disputes are not just between the members of the government; the scientific council is also arguing very intensively among themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U56	Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U57	Thank you for your answer. Although I have to say that I was hoping for a more specific answer, that maybe there is reason to admit that something is late. But I get it, in this position, the government doesn't want to admit it. It's probably time to discuss how this pace goes on. But I have a very specific question about communication. We didn't hear until a few weeks ago that local governments get masks for underinsured people. It was a couple of weeks, maybe more back. The minister, who was then Minister of State Administration, has now become Minister of Education. The masks have not been received by municipalities to date, and the infection continues to grow and grow. I've been called by three municipalities and asked where to turn. They share the masks themselves. Indeed, the city of Tallinn shares itself, many municipalities share themselves, they cannot wait for the masks promised by the government. Can you say anything about that? Believe me, these municipalities are watching this briefing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U58	Thank you. I have to say, I've been less involved in this mask. But, as I recall, we decided to distribute masks from the so-called central state reserve to nursing homes and underprivileged families, and that goes through the municipalities. We did not agree that we would simply give masks to municipalities, but that we would give masks to municipalities to pass them on to specific groups. I know there's been some kind of glitch. Turns out that some of the masks they were planning to give didn't meet the quality requirements, and then they switched them. But I'm not familiar with this specialty today. I generally believe that there are municipalities where nothing has come to, but I also know that there are municipalities where masks have certainly reached. But I don't feel that specific about this situation, it's not my department.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U59	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U60	Thank you. To tell you the truth, your first response to Mr Helmen Hunt was shocked when you said that masks were a pseudo-issue. This is exactly an example of what, as I understand it, Mrs Hunter's question was motivated, i.e. the clarity of the message, the unity and logic of the government's decisions. I have recently seen a lot of Mrs. Irja Lutzar, who is the chairman of the scientific council, saying that wearing a mask is very important. The head of the health department says he's a masked worm, and so on. And now here in Question Time before Parliament, replacing the Prime Minister, thus representing the official position of the government, you say that masks are a pseudo-issue at all. How, then, can this government be understood? But what I really want to ask is a question of fact. This concerns what was decided today, which restrictions start Monday in Estonian education. If it has been said so far that schools are the last to go to jail, then today, like Vändra, news came from the sawboards, some of which say that schools are going to distance school from the 14th, and some say that the 14th is going to be a long school break and that education is not going to take place at that time. Unfortunately, there is no clarity of the message once again. But it concerns the life arrangements of tens of thousands of families. I'm just giving you a chance to explain, with the facts right now, what's going to happen in our lives from Monday.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U61	Thank you. However, I must draw attention to the fact that I did not say that masks were a pseudo-issue. I told you, it's pseudopoletics. That's what I said, the whole argument about whether a mask is necessary or unnecessary is pointless. Of course, a mask is necessary and must be worn if justified. It was pseudopoletics, it was a substitute, and it was not the government that dealt with it, it was the whole society. It was a substitute instead of talking about other things. That's why I said it was pseudopoletics. Now for school break. It has to be specified here, because it is nuanced. This is not an extension of the break, because if we were to extend the break, we would need to do these study days at some point next year. Speaking the language of the people, everyone understands that the intermission starts a week earlier, but actually we're closing down the schools because of the virus threat. These school days, when schools are closed, do not have to be followed up by schools until the end of the school year. It needs to be understood. Secondly, all educational establishments will be shut down, since primary school, including vocational schools, applied schools and higher education institutions will be shut down. But there are little exceptions. Consultations will continue if they are individual consultations and training for children with special needs will continue. In these schools, there are not many of them, which have moved to distance education, in those upper secondary schools that we moved to distance education a few weeks ago, if they wish, it is possible to continue with the current arrangements until the end of the break, because there is no contact education there at the moment. There are some nuances here, but what people need to understand and what our goal is is that people no longer gather in educational establishments. For this we will stop teaching in all schools starting next Monday. Kindergartens remain open. There is a small list of "stars" or exceptions that anyone directly concerned should be familiar with. But the main message is very clear: next week the schools will be closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U62	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U63	Question 7, the questioner is Heiki Kranich, the answer is Raul Siem, Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U64	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Last time you were here in government briefing, I asked you about the national databases. From your answer, I understood that either you did not understand the question or you did not want to understand it. In order to give you the opportunity to reply, I asked you a written question, which contained seven specific questions. Unfortunately, I have to say that I did not receive any substantive answers to these seven questions. In your answer, I'm reading some dark talk about using Microsoft Office, but there was no question about it. As the security of national databases is undoubtedly a very important issue, my question to you now is whether you stick to the position that your written reply made that it is not economically sustainable to create a national alternative to ensure the security of these databases. Those are your words. On paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U65	Can I be more specific? There was something about sound quality problems. What was the end of the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U66	Heiki Kranich's mike, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U67	My question is based on your written answer to me. The question is whether, in order to ensure the security of national databases, you will stick to your words that the creation of a national alternative is not economically sustainable. Those are your words about the answer to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U68	Thank you, of course, for the question. Sincerely, I have to say that in case the answer was somewhat vague, I apologise. Always gets better. As far as this question is concerned, whether and what is sustainable can be answered in such a way that, if we look at the location and articulation of our databases and servers from the perspective of cyber security, in fact, their overall maintenance would be significantly better if data sets and server parks could be consolidated. I am talking very specifically about the cloud of state and the concept of the cloud of state. Yes, in that sense, I continue to believe that today's situation is unsustainable in the long term and that this system needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U69	Heiki Kranich, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U70	Thank you. Of course, it's nice to hear that the system needs to be changed. But not creating a national alternative, which is based on your letter, is certainly not the way. Based on the latest information on how information has been leaked from national databases, it has been said about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it has to be said that the part of the Ministry of Economic Affairs has remained somewhat superficially handled. Is it true that the data from the national car register, which contains car owners, car numbers and many other information, has leaked? Again, referring to your own response, which you wrote to me, do you continue to believe that there is no separate database information security action plan and there is no need for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U71	With regard to the first part of the question, I can reply in such a way that the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications (which has also been announced publicly) has now released data of 350 gigabytes, which in turn means that most of these data were a public document register, which has also been communicated. I do not have any information at the moment concerning the registration data, but I think it is possible to clarify that. So I don't have that kind of information. One way or another, today will specify how and how much data has gone out. This job, as far as I know, is still ongoing. In addition, there is not much more to comment on, as this is information with AK marks and an ongoing police investigation. So there's not much to open up at this point in the speaker's desk right now. The second question was... Couldn't write it down. Please specify the other side of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U72	Okay. Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U73	The other part was that your own letter contained your view that you do not see any need to create any kind of process on information security. I'm afraid I can't quote you right now. Are you still in the same position?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U74	Okay, I get the question. Yes, your question was whether it would be reasonable to bring together the information security of databases in a single document or document at the moment. Under current law, three institutions are involved in the supervision of databases: the National Information System Authority, Statistics Estonia and the Data Protection Inspectorate. After all, data collections are managed in accordance with the Public Information Act. In view of the fact that we have many agencies, all of whom have work plans, work instructions, resulting from the development plan, the budget and sub-acts, which ultimately go to work level, there is currently no very substantial point in putting them together in a single document, given that we are still going ahead with the consolidation project.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U75	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U76	Thank you. I would first like to thank the President of the sitting because, having been both in the government box and in the chair, I know that sometimes it is true that there are no questions about the box. I think it is very reasonable that you made an exception so that the questioner and the respondent can discuss the matter properly. Such human exceptions are, in my opinion, always justified in the Rules of Procedure. But I'll come to the question. This 350 gigabytes is, in this sense, a rather useless fact that 350 gigabytes may be the recording of the Question Time we are both participating in, but there may also be some sensitive personal data for both of us. Perhaps the questions you cannot answer because of the AK marks can be answered correctly in writing. That would certainly be helpful, because this issue deserves clarification. But my question, too, is about the cyber attacks that came out last week. After all, this is quite a thrill for Estonia's e-governance reputation. If you didn't know the details, you could say you were right and our e-state isn't safe. But as far as I know, it wasn't the digital story where our health records are and where they continue to be kept safe, it was the attack on some other database, which is not quite clear what the law created it and whether it was on legal grounds at all, and how it was secured. This has nothing to do with e-state. Answer, as far as you can say, and if you can't, I'll also ask for a reply in writing. If I do not have to be in the Riigikogu by that time, please address this reply to the other members of the Reform Party Group. What kind of database was actually attacked, and was the database that was attacked, precisely in terms of health data, created on a legal basis at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U77	Yeah. I understand that this response will be forwarded in writing to the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U78	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U79	Question No 8, it is submitted by Ivari Padar and answered by Finance Minister Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U80	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, acting Prime Minister. Bring some light to this subject called tourism support measures. In answering one question, you somewhat enlightened the plans that are. After all, we have already had this debate in the Chamber two or three times this autumn. Organisations representing tourism companies have proposed to implement wage support until the next spring to keep a critical number of people at work. So what is this position now and what can tourism companies count on in this situation and today when December is halfway through?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U81	Thank you. I know these appeals, I have met these organizations, and I have read all the materials that have been sent. The tragedy of the tourism sector is that it is the sector most affected during this health crisis. This situation will certainly not improve in the coming months. The fundamental choice we had in the government when we took a wage measure in spring was that we made it for all companies because there was a general closure of society. It helped to overcome the shock. When life started to start again, companies started to come back and get back on their feet, except for the tourism sector, whose cash flows disappeared, whose incomes disappeared. Now there is a choice as to whether or not we will continue to give this sector money exceptionally, whether as a wage measure or as some kind of direct aid. There is no political agreement in the government so that we can carry the whole sector, say, through the crisis on a large scale until the summer of next year or whatever time it is. That's just not the political appetite. When we think about the wage subsidy, there is little difference in the financial dimension of whether people are made redundant and go to the unemployment fund to ask for money or whether the unemployment fund is taking some sort of special measure and paying these companies about the same size. The difference is whether or not these companies stop or in some cases freeze their activities. To ensure that they do not end their activities once and for all, but simply reduce their compositions and running costs, other support measures have been taken, as a rule, through the EAS. As I said, at the beginning there was an additional budget of 35 million, at the moment we have added a little less than 15 million. Compared to all other sectors, and if we add that we have also supported Tallink with large amounts of loans, for example, through KredEx, the tourism sector has clearly received the highest proportion of support from all measures anyway. But we don't have any illusions. We do not have this money and we do not have the political will to carry the whole sector through the crisis in a way that everyone can survive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U82	Ivari Padar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U83	It doesn't sound very optimistic to you that there is no political will and that the office has not been agreed. Can you explain more when these agreements might come? For example, does this option exist within this year's number, or does it use the new word indicated in the Word, the fire, or future year? Are these decisions going to next year? In one of your responses here today, you have also said that the stronger must be supported. When these decisions come, how can you do this selection? It is clear that there are companies of very different sizes in the tourism sector, that there are turnover-intensive companies and that there are smaller players. How do we do this selection? Two questions: when can these decisions come politically, and what might this selection be?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U84	Yes, in addition to the additional budget money we have already talked about and what you all know, the government has made a separate decision to allocate 5.8 million through EAS. This money has basically already been paid out, this decision was made in the autumn. Now we have EUR 8 million on a separate table, which we are also directing to the EAS, divided between four drawers: catering establishments, accommodation facilities, shops that sell items primarily aimed at foreign tourists, and foreign tourism agencies or tourism companies. Of course, if you try to feed the whole Cana wedding with that $8 million, you don't really feed. It's a little bit for the whole company. But the sieve we're using is a fall in turnover. If the fall in turnover has been at least 60%, they will receive this money. Moreover, there is no floor there, because we want small businesses to get it too, but it is on top of the ceiling. More than a certain amount, which has not yet been established, cannot be paid by one company. That is the basic framework.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U85	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U86	Thank you. This issue relates only partially to the tourism sector. I wanted to ask you what you thought about banning direct flights. Clearly, this makes people's movements more uncomfortable and their contacts multiple because they fly with multiple connections. Let's say the workers fly to Sweden to build through several countries instead of flying straight. That's what happened in the meantime. I asked Tavi Asa in writing. He claimed that all of this was necessary and wise, and it was as if recommended by scientists. At the same time, information has come from the scientific council that they think it has no effect, that it still has to control people, not airplanes. Why are we banning direct flights, not flying at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U87	I support it in this logic: if travel is uncomfortable, fewer travel and fewer contacts. It's as simple as that. Of course, we understand that some people still need to travel, and if they don't travel by plane and triple-over, they'll find another way. But the less travel these days, the more the spread of the disease has been suppressed. That's the logic of why direct flights are limited. I still come back to the fact that there is no common position among scientists. Practically the whole Corona theme has very, very acute or very fundamental debates in the scientific world about how it spreads, how to prevent dissemination, what are the best treatments? There are very, very different views on this matter. If there were one common scientific opinion that this is the case and do so, it would also be easier for politicians to make decisions, but it is not really.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U88	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U89	Question No 8, posed by Eerik-Niles Kross. He will be answered by Finance Minister Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U90	Good manager! Good minister, thank you! This is about foreign policy. It seems that the Government of the Republic is in a rather strange situation where one third of the members of the government recognize one man as the elected president of our leading security partner and two thirds recognise the other. At some point we discussed it in this Chamber, and then you said that if you ever meet, we'll see that we work with the president that America chooses. Today it is clear that President Trump has decided to continue to claim that he has been legally elected, and has declared out about like a parallel inauguration, while Biden takes office. Have you legally analyzed the findings? That's a pretty interesting problem, what happens next. When the EKRE receives an invitation to Trump's inauguration, will you go and will you communicate and will your ministers communicate with Trump's men and the rest of the ministers with Biden's men? What's it all gonna look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U91	Thank you. This is undoubtedly a very exciting and unprecedented situation. However, I would urge you not to use a word with a very specific meaning, such as'recognition'. Nobody here has recognised anything or anyone yet. The American election process has indeed not yet been completed, the electoral body has not been together, not even the results of the elections have been finalised in all states. In the state of New York, voices are still being read. Some states have addressed the Supreme Court directly. If I recall correctly, the state of Texas is requesting the Supreme Court to revoke the election results in four states claiming that there has been a violation of electoral laws so extensive that the principle of equal treatment in other states has affected their interests. There's a riot going on. We can't see or hear it from the Estonian media unless you read the New News, but there's a riot. So no, we haven't discussed it, I mean, the government hasn't discussed it, what happens if there are two presidents who have declared themselves president in America. This is undoubtedly not only a very difficult situation for the Estonian Government, but, let us say, for the entire Western world, it is a nut, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U92	Eerik-Niles Kross, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U93	Part of the New News, the Lens and your media publications are motivated because there has been an invitation to go from Estonia with a weapon to defend US democracy. EKRE activists have also sent invitations to members of the Riigikogu by e-mail. It is not a question of the current situation. We understand that you and Vladimir Putin have decided to wait until the last moment before congratulating or congratulating Biden. But the question is in the period that follows, because by now I think it is quite certain that President Trump is not going to admit that he has lost the elections. I don't think the Western world has much of a headache, however, unlike you. All Western countries have, by now, congratulated President Biden, President Biden. At one point, it seems to me, you still have to step back. Or?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U94	No, I don't know where we've gone, we have to step back somewhere. But I do understand that if we're with Putin, you're with Xi Jinping, who's like on the other side. If you want to find an autocrat to tie your political opponent up by the tail, you will. But no, I will continue to stick to the fact that the election process in America is not over, and we will wait until it is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U95	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U96	Thank you. Of course, your speaking as a member of the government must have finally destroyed this beautiful hope that foreign policy is a cross-party consensus. True, Edgar Savisaar tried to break it when he couldn't pronounce whether Crimea was annexed or released. Your talk about the position of the government is, of course, even more damaging from the point of view of Estonia's security. But since time is pressing, and unfortunately I'm not getting to my question, forgive me for changing the subject. It really depends very much on what our next year will look like. The question is that if Estonian society is open or closed depends on whether and how much we are able to vaccinate Estonian people, whether we have all the opportunities to do so, whether we have enough doses to do so, whether this arrangement has been thought out in detail. I will be honest with you that it seems to me right now that the government is exceptionally unambitious. Because when Tanel Kiik talks about 100,000 doses, which means about 50,000 people, the number of people who could be vaccinated during the first quarter doesn't even cover the entire front line. In Britain, for example, vaccination has already begun and the first people received the vaccine yesterday. Are you, who are replacing the Prime Minister today, satisfied with the ambitious attitude that Estonia has taken on the subject of vaccination, and when will the government finally come to the conclusion that we have a specific plan and that the entire population will have the necessary vaccination cover?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U97	I do not know when there has been a cross-party consensus in Estonia. I don't think it ever was. In my opinion, the security of Estonia has been significantly more endangered by a diplomat belonging to the ranks of your party, who was taken away from an orgy in Brussels. Of course you don't want to talk about that. But let's get to more serious issues. I think there's a completely open door break-in right now. Of course, I understand you're implying that in Britain, the vaccine is being used and Brexit has still been good for them. If, as an independent state, they are able to decide their own affairs and adopt these medicines, they are ahead of everyone else. All these vaccines are known to have been selected by the European Union for seven vaccines, which are considered to be the most potential, and have been booked first by the relevant European authorities. All Member States have been offered the possibility to participate in the pre-paid booking of these drugs and to obtain a certain amount of them. Estonia has registered in all these bookings and has also made advance payments. If we're gonna buy out all seven pills, we're gonna have a cost of 33.5 million. An extra 8.5 million is added to all kinds of accessories, from special syringes, solvents, needles, some ultra-freezers, dry ice and other things. It's an "infrastructure" that goes along with it, but it's something we're going to have for a long time, so we're going to upgrade our medical system's vaccination infrastructure. We have the hope, as has been said, of getting the first vaccines in January with all the other European countries. We have a plan to cover half the population in an accelerated fashion. These are risk groups: frontier workers, people of a certain age group and certain chronic patients. This half of the population's vaccine coverage we're going to do for free, it's a state-bought vaccine that can be free of charge. Following this, depending on the future evolution of both the spread of the virus and the development of medicines, in 2022 we will make a separate decision as to whether we will continue vaccination free of charge or free of charge or with part of our participation. But if we look at the quantities we have booked now and we consider that we can get all these quantities, then we can actually vaccinate the entire Estonian population 2.5 times over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U98	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U99	Next question, No 10, by Jevgeni Ossinovski and answerer, Minister of Finance Martin Helme, in place of Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U100	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! Even before this happy vaccination programme starts, the time between Christmas and New Year, as a result of the government sneaking, is such that the hospital system is staggering at the critical border, because at the right moment you failed to take the necessary preventive action and reached where we are today, with the leadership of society, that we have one of the highest levels of infection in Europe in one region. But just so it doesn't remain a declaration like that, I am very surprised by your answer to my previous question, that you do not agree that it is out of control, that you think everything is under control. That, if there is the highest infection rate in Europe, then it had to be that you have led the process, the spread of the epidemic, in such a way that you believe you have everything in your hands. Consequently, I have a very serious question that you should answer. You said that the government has been discussing whether Estonian society would be ready to suffer 10 to 15 corona deaths a day, etc. In the meantime, the government's goal of controlling the epidemic seems to have changed. Mr Ratas told us at the end of the first wave that during the second wave, the aim is to lock up the virus, not society, and said that all national restrictions are being avoided, because we are well prepared, we are preparing for the second wave, we are doing everything in relation to sick days, we are getting the information technology tools done, and then we are using precision restrictions. We know how it went. After keeping in touch with the Health Board, which was relatively successful until mid-October, the rest of things didn't go too well. So, what's the government's strategy for today, where else do you say it's out of control and it's not gone according to the plan? What's the rate of infection you can say, yes, you've taken that into account? However, I think that society needs a clear explanation when the strategy has changed and public health is no longer at the forefront.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U101	Thank you. First of all, I want to remind everyone that the corona virus is not an invented or distributed thing of the Estonian Government; it is still a matter of the Chinese Communist Party. It's not our fault this virus runs around the world. As I have said many times today, Estonia has been better able to cope with the economic crisis caused by this virus and its spread than most other countries in Europe. So all these talking points, the way things are out of hand, and it's crazy, and the way we've dragged a slipper, it's just not an adequate story. In the same way, it is not enough to talk about Estonia with the highest figure. Doesn't have the highest figure. We are now among the European averages. We were among the lowest in Europe for a long time, and now that other countries have gone through the wave and the figures are starting to fall, we are still among the averages. We all know that since this is happening with a certain time delay, we are probably going higher with our numbers and those countries that are already past the top are going lower. So we are really moving forward in this sense in this table, but there is a logical reason for this and we are still not in the highest indicators. Especially when we compare to what the other peaks have been. So I absolutely do not accept this criticism. You can, of course, talk about how we have no message or any plan. I am saying very simply: we are listening to the proposals made by the Scientific Advisory Board. We will implement the proposals of the Scientific Advisory Board after they present them to us, having considered them in all other respects, not only whether there are beds in hospitals or not. We need to look at the wider functioning of society as a whole. We make the necessary preparations and respond exactly when the time is right. It is not necessary to do that if we are thrown on a table on a Tuesday morning, we will not even read them, but we will immediately implement them. First, the members of the government need to understand what this entails, they need to negotiate with their political groups, and then we usually decide on Thursdays. This is a very reasonable model of leadership. No, I haven't missed anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U102	Thank you. Very quickly one minute for the question and one minute for the answer, then the time is up. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski, the question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U103	Thank you! There was no answer, after all. The question is whether the government's strategy has changed. The Estonian people have so far lived with the knowledge that the strategy has not changed, that the government is working and controlling the virus in such a way that the Estonian hospital system does not reach the overload that we do not reach the universal lockdown restrictions that it can be managed in a different way than it was in the spring, just as we were promised. Now we have reached the point that these national restrictions will come. That's one. I said that Ida-Viru County is one of Europe's highest rates of infection. We can see that there are 400, 500, maybe 600 people in the hospital at some point, leading to a crash in the hospital system. Now the question is: do you think the situation is still under control, and at what point in the paradigm of controlling your virus comes the moment when you say that it is actually out of hand, is no longer planned and is bad? What's your strategic objective of virus control?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U104	Thank you. First of all, I say that the strategic objective you quoted earlier is the same: to avoid the lockdown of society for as long as possible. That's the strategy. This is the strategy that has been reproached here for two hours in a row for me and the entire government. But I'm just saying that the medical system hasn't reached the overload right now. We have two hospitals that are on the verge of fulfillment and where there really is a problem. If there are still large numbers of sick people, they will have to start spreading them to other hospitals. But overall, Estonia is small enough; we can disperse it across the country. So it's not overloaded. I would also stick to the notion that the medical system serves people, not people serve the medical system.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U105	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 10th working week session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? No, it's not. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U106	Thank you. Thanks to the questioners! Thank you for your response. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U107	87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U108	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft National Budget Act 2021 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U109	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the preparation of the draft National Budget Act 2021 for the third reading, including 23 and 24 November and 3, 7 and 8 December. The state's budget strategy is based on the coalition agreement, whose priorities are the growth of the Estonian economy, population, security and people's well-being. The state budget for 2021 has four major goals: helping people stay healthy, contributing to health care, helping the most people in need through social protection, accelerating smart development and research and continuing investment in the future, green and digital revolution. The budget costs and investments amount to nearly EUR 13 billion and revenue to EUR 11.2 billion. The difference is due to the necessary investments in the recovery of economic growth, which is why the volume of expenditure exceeds the growth in revenue. The volume of government investment will amount to around EUR 1.9 billion in 2021. The European Union's contribution to the national budget for 2021 is planned at more than EUR 1.4 billion. Tax revenue will increase to EUR 9.3 billion next year, compared to around EUR 9 billion this year. The tax burden will fall to 32.7% of GDP next year compared to 33.8% of GDP this year. The general government budget is forecast to be nominally in deficit next year at 6.7% of GDP and structurally at 6.6% of GDP. By 2024, the planned deficit reduction will be structurally 1.3% of GDP and nominally 2.5% of GDP. By the deadline for submitting amendments, including 30 November, the Estonian Reform Party Group tabled 12 amendments to the draft. Several of these proposals overlapd with the amendments tabled for second reading. Explanations of the amendments are included in the list of amendments. One amendment was also tabled by the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities and supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Two amendments were tabled by the Committee on Finance. The Commission's first amendment largely consists of a number of clarifications within and between the areas of government of the ministries. The amendment has been drawn up on the basis of additional information from ministries and specific explanations have been included in each amendment clause in the list of amendments. The above proposal complements the draft with additional external grants estimated for 2021 at EUR 313 million, which will be recorded as a summary of government revenue. The distribution of resources between areas of government has not yet become clear at the time of the third reading of the draft, as negotiations are still ongoing with the European Commission. In accordance with the decision of the Committee on Monetary Affairs of 3 December, the Government shall, as soon as possible, present to the Committee on Monetary Affairs an overview of the planned allocation of external support by investees and activities. The second amendment increases regional investment. Various projects in the third sector and civil society will be supported in line with the proposals submitted by the political groups and the contributions received by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The text of the draft has been amended in linguistic and technical terms. From the proposals made by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the Commission took into account one proposal. The remaining proposals were not supported by the majority of the Commission. The proposal, which was supported, is to increase the amount of EUR 225000 in § 1 of the draft "State budget expenditure, revenue, investments and financing operations' in the Ministry of Education and Research. The aim of the amendment is to finance the professional year of school psychologists at Tallinn University Institute of Natural Sciences and Health and the Institute of Psychology at the University of Tartu, so that school psychologists are well prepared in more schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U110	You have questions too. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U111	Thank you. This is a historic and, unfortunately, historic in a very negative sense. This deficit does not arise from investments, as you mistakenly claimed, but mainly from current costs. And so this deficit will spread to the whole visible future. All the budgets that the current government has foreseen in the budget strategy will generate billions more loan burdens for the Estonian state and will do so when this pandemic has long passed. Thus, in some ways, the current budget is such a budget for prolonging the effects of the pandemic. And you've probably planned to repay our children. My question is precisely about investment. How can you say that more than 2 billion minus will be needed to make investments when we know that public revenue investments are less than a billion and that there are sums of European Union money on both sides, on both the revenue and expenditure side?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U112	Thank you, Tavi, for a good question. The state budget is not specifically mentioned, but there is also the revenue received by the municipalities, which includes investments. And some of the investments next year have also been adopted in this year's supplementary budget, which will be physically realised next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U113	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Let us continue with this investment issue. This has always been emphasised by you, too, in the preamble to your presentation, and it has been communicated throughout the period up to the third reading that there are 1.9 billion government investments. The state budget concerns only one part of the government sector; local authorities take out loans themselves for their investments. Isn't that right? And it doesn't make sense to consider local government investments as part of the state budget. But I have this particular question. If there are as many investments as you always produce, how much will state budget investments increase compared to this year? And if you want to mention the government sector separately, please tell me how much government investment will increase next year in percentage terms compared to this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U115	Thank you, Aivar! Like me, you have been present and listened to the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. During the preparation of the third reading, we did not discuss such issues, but talked about the amendments that were received by us on 30 November evening. It is always possible to discuss and argue about the volume and amount of investments. And, as I mentioned at the beginning of my report, there are very many potential investment objects to be carried out by means of European Union support measures that cannot be counted from the budget. There is only a number of money that is currently planned to come from the European Union. As long as the budget has not been adopted in the European Union, it will not be possible to present all these figures here. And we also agreed in the Commission that, after the European Union budget has been adopted and negotiated, the government will inform us of all its steps and investments planned to be made with European Union funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U116	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, we had an agreement to get information when the government comes to an understanding of what could be done with European money, not when the European Commission has decided things. And as far as the press is concerned, it happened on the same Thursday. So I would have expected a review, but what's not there isn't. And I would also like to make such a comment to you that when we talk about investments, we are talking about investments outside the European Union, which is, as we know, a zero line with two lines. There will only be 400 million budgetary investments, which is far less than nearly 2 billion. So please, make it clear to yourself! However, the question is: when will we get this overview of the European Union's resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U118	Thank you. We will get an overview of the European Union's resources in the first quarter of next year when the Government of the Republic has reached such a level that it has also reached the objects in the initial phase of the negotiations. This data has not yet been received by the Committee on Monetary Affairs today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U119	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U120	Thank you. Mr. Chef, you are the leading financial expert in this country, if not the whole region, but I am not happy with your answers. First of all, what you said to Taavi Clothes about deficit and comparison of investments. Municipalities have nothing to do with this. The impact of the municipal investments is already reflected in the balance of the municipalities themselves, so they are not a reason for this to be set at 6% minus. But my question came up with one of your other bad answers. This is what you gave me by answering the question about the state of our budget. You said it was a difficult time. Structural minus 6.6% is not related to difficult times. Tough times have already been separated. Would you please tell me the answer? How can such a minus come out of it? What are the future steps that the coalition is planning to take out of the 6.6% structural minus? It doesn't grow out, it's a structural minus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U121	Thank you, Jurgen! I haven't answered those questions today, but maybe I answered it the last time you asked. However, in order to come out of the structural deficit, there has been an agreement at the time of the budget transfer that the Ministry of Finance will have to present an austerity project for the discussions of the RES in the spring, stating the places where costs can be saved in the 2022 budget. We had this wish already at the time of the additional budget. Unfortunately, this agreement could not be reached between the ministries. In the budget for next year, on the one hand, the economic costs of all ministries have been reduced by 1.7%, but on the other hand, large IT investments are on the expenditure side. But for next April's debate on the RES, the task assigned to the Ministry of Finance is to find places in the budget where costs can be saved, and not in small amounts.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U122	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U123	Thank you. Let it be said, as a brief comment, that we are most likely to see nothing but hot steam there, because the contraction of the state budget in the year of the local elections does not seem to be at all likely for this coalition. But my question is completely different. The question concerns the procedure during the second and third readings here in the Riigikogu and in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, namely the amendments which still contain incredible allocations, namely even corrupt and arbitrary allocations to different organisations. The Government of the Republic was also required to give an opinion on these changes. Paragraph 120 (5) of our Home and Working Procedures Act states that amendments which have not been approved by the Government will not be put to the vote. This means that other changes must also have been approved by the government. My question to you is very simple: has the Government of the Republic given the Committee on Monetary Affairs an opinion and its approval to all the amendments that came in between second and third readings?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U124	The government has not given a favourable position to all the amendments, but has expressed an opinion that supports some of the proposals and does not support some of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U125	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U126	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, One amendment is on regional investment, and in this table we find an allocation of EUR 171000 for the non-profit association Life Mars, which is known to fight abortion, for banning abortion. A petition has been launched against the allocation of funds, with some 17,000 signatures to date. My question: how does this investment relate to regional investment? What problem does this solve in the regions? And the other half of the question: why do you support as chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and why does the entire party of Isamaa support the ban on abortion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U127	Thank you. First of all, I would like to begin by saying that all members of the Riigikogu, political groups and committees have the right to propose amendments. If the amendments come from the members of the Riigikogu one by one, each proposal separately, they can be discussed and voted separately within the committee. If the proposal comes in compact form as a proposal from the political groups, there is one proposal. We discussed these issues in two meetings of the Commission. Of course, questions were raised by all the Members of the Commission, not only about this allocation, but also about some other allocation. When we discussed these investments the first time last week, we had this change placed under the Regional Ministry, but we saw that this was clearly the subject of the Ministry of the Interior, and today it has been placed in the fields of the Minister of Population and the Ministry of the Interior. And I don't think there's gonna be a contract under the Minister of Population when it comes to banning abortion. I have also asked the group that proposed it. Their message is that it is to make life-acceptable propaganda, not to impose an abortion ban.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U128	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. For the third reading of this budget, 668 amendments have been tabled concerning the amounts that are called 'roof money', sometimes also for regional investments and so on. We know that there are different areas of prosperity in Estonia. The average GDP per capita varies, drawing very clearly where there is more money and where there is less. As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, have you done an analysis of how these roof money investments support the smoothing of regional disparities? Do you have an analysis of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U130	Thank you, Urve, for the question. Fair answer: the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs does not have such an analysis. But at the last meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we agreed that in January-February we would table the issue of regional investment in the committee. Last year we agreed on certain principles verbally, but we see that one hundred percent of these agreements have not been respected. Greater principles need to be agreed and these include whether or not regional investments are also in the case of Tallinn and Harjumaa. These discussions must be debated here in the Riigikogu between the political groups and try to make a consensual decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U131	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U132	My question concerns the Freeh agreement signed by the Minister of Finance. This is a legal aid agreement that has committed 3 million to the state of Estonia. This is a bad agreement, but it is not the subject of this issue. I asked the Minister of Finance why this is not in the budget for next year, which sets out the costs. In fact, no reference has been made to this in the special-purpose reserve, even though these financial commitments have already been made. I will ask you, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, whether the budget has shown the funds to cover this agreement. To simplify the answer: on page 5 of the amendments, there are some movements of money related to money laundering. Can you tell me whether the financing of this agreement has been properly put into this budget or whether the government intends to finance it in contradiction with the idea of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U133	Thank you. Looking at the amendments made between second and third readings on money laundering issues, one step is the transfer of the money laundering office to the Ministry of Finance. This does not take into account the conclusion of an agreement with the American company. The decision to conclude this was taken by the government this year and money is taken from the government reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U134	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U135	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! As the questions and answers come out of here, we do not have a good picture of how much investment there is in the budget. Nor is there a good picture of how euro money is used. The National Audit Office has said that the budget is so general that it is impossible to break the budget or to make a mistake against a point in its implementation. Similarly, two recent reports by the National Audit Office concerning the Foundation for Rural Development and KredEx are critical. Both are critical, talking about a lack of ambition, ambiguity in the implementation of measures. As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, when do we get to a budget that is understandable and transparent and that can be monitored?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U136	Thank you. On the question of budgetary comprehension, the approach is certainly different. I believe, good Andres, that the ability to read the budget may be different for you and for me than for ordinary citizens. This ability depends on whether there has ever been a need to draw up a budget, read it, and make decisions. But we have a first-reading draft made by your party to improve the transparency of the state budget. A similar approach has also been made to the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance, and their proposals could also come. There will certainly be discussions on budgetary transparency in the Committee on Monetary Affairs next year, and I hope that we will reach consensus on a solution that seems acceptable to all parties before spring or before summer break. In the debate on budgetary transparency, it is certainly important which bench is sitting on: either in the Riigikogu or in the government. The visions are definitely different in some way. Thirdly, I know, for a number of lines, there are disputes about what officials see as the state budget. But we have so far found consensus in the Commission in most cases, but we will also find consensus on this issue. Thank you, Andres!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U137	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You have made it clear that you do not support the ban on abortion and that you have accused a bit of a procedural rule that you cannot object. And the head of the EKRE just a few moments ago here said that he didn't support the sharing of roofing money at all. Then why are you doing these idiotic things? Where do these guidelines come from? 6.8 million will be distributed to strange places, people who have not even applied for this money. Instead, you could have done what, I believe, everyone supports: this is an increase in teachers' pay. That's what you canceled. Tell me, why should we support such a budget, which, it seems, even those who have prepared it, do not support it themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U139	Thank you, Yoko! Questions and answers often depend on the place where they sit. Very quickly, you forget that the Reform Party has also shared roof money over the years. And the members of the Riigikogu may otherwise not be able to support their region. If there's a tar drop in the honey pot, it's usually gonna ruin everything, and then they're gonna argue about it and discuss it. It may be necessary to clarify how and under what conditions regional investments can be carried out. We are talking here with a very loud voice about three- and five-thousand investments. Each ministry, however, shares millions and hundreds of millions without any member of the Riigikogu knowing about this, because it is done by decree of the Minister. There are usually no discussions about this; there are no debates about it. This is also one subject where there are different perceptions. Today, most members of the Riigikogu have believed that regional investments are necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U140	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You did not answer my previous question about how much investment will increase in next year's budget. They don't grow much either. Sven Pertens, head of TREV-2, has said that underfunding of roads has led to a critical low in the whole area. Road money will be slightly over 400 million euros in next year's budget, and this year will be the same. So there's no growth here. But what I have to ask is that it is not possible to understand the detailed content of the amounts of roads. When I asked for it, there was a reference to the tea plan. You also said that the government had to adopt it in November, that the road plan should have been at least in the form of a draft regulation at the budget. I'm asking you, how do we get an overview of the detailed distribution of road money and Sven Pertens speaking the right thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U142	Thank you. If I look at the government agenda tomorrow, the road plan will be on the government agenda tomorrow and will most likely be approved there. After that, it is certainly possible for all members of the Riigikogu to see it and express their opinion. And, of course, in road construction today, the state has not reduced the amount of investment in the budget next year, just as you, good Aivar, yourself, have mentioned. However, the sad finding is that private sector investment in the construction sector will most likely fall significantly next year compared to what was a year ago. A number of investment decisions have been suspended this year and as long as we have the situation of the corona virus, many companies are not taking major risks and do not make major investments. There are certainly other companies that make some investments because, as they say, the brave wolf's breast is greasy. But it could be full of wounds. I guess that's the point of risk, and to tell you exactly today what the company does or does not do, can't say. You can't order anyone. But, Aivar, you are right in this sense that the volume of the construction sector will certainly be declining next year due to the current economic situation and the construction sector will have not the best times next year. Already today, construction procurement shows that in so many procurements prices have fallen not 5% or 10%, but even more. Entrepreneurs are preparing to survive in any way next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U143	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U144	Thank you very much. Good waitress! Of course, I do not understand where the idea came from that the three political groups, together, are proposing these amendments to the money from the roof, but that is why. You must have feared that you would not support each other's proposals within the coalition. But second, I want to say that I am disturbed by this day-to-day history lesson in the Riigikogu: that, well, you did so too, and then it was. Today is today, and today's decisions you still have to explain today, not explain that it was ever the case. Enough history! But here's my particular question. Who specifically submitted the money to the NGO of Life Mars, which was founded in June this year, who has organised only one anti-abortion demonstration so far? That's all he's done so far. Who specifically submitted this request? And what was the reason for the money being spent? There must also be an explanation of what this money is going to be, after all, the state budget and public money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U145	Thank you. The performers were three political groups and the two other political groups were represented by the EKRE Group. Now, what exactly is the cost of the money? As you, good fruit, you know, in fact, all the regional investment funds are distributed by different ministries according to this table, which ministry something has gone under. Contracts will be concluded and the beneficiary must send the Ministry the full budget for which the money will be used before the contract is concluded. When the period has ended, the report shall also be submitted and indicate whether the funds have been used correctly. If the contract is not concluded, the money will not be allocated. And if the money has not been used correctly, the Ministry has the right to ask for the money back.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U146	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U147	Thank you. Since you left my previous question essentially unanswered, saying that some were supported and some were not supported, I will ask you more specifically. Amendment 3 concerns regional investments. Have they been approved by the Government of the Republic and also approved by the Minister of Finance? If it isn't, then it's my question who's lying. The Minister of Finance said an hour ago, answering questions in Question Time, that he did not know about regional investment nights or hats. He was in a tree when the bang went, he hadn't heard anything about it. On the other hand, last week at a press conference of the Government of the Republic, he said you'd see, like we put 30,000 more on Mars. I'd like to get your opinion on who's messing with us here and lying. Is the Minister of Finance wrong, and he really does not know anything, because it is like the work of the members of the Riigikogu, which has taken place here in order to decide on regional investments, the composition of the Finance Committee, or has the Government of the Republic, however, given its approval of regional investments, including the anti-abortion movement of 171000 euros?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U148	The Government of the Republic has given its opinion on all proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U149	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U150	Thank you. I think it's worth talking about history, but it's worth talking about history honestly. My position on roofing money has been the same for 20 years. And I haven't changed it depending on the seat. My request in both the government and the Riigikogu has been that it should not be dealt with. But one of the most famous regional political decisions is about Mars of Life. How it happened that it was thrown like a dead dog across the fence, from one ministry to another. How did this actually happen? How was it really that Anneli was thrown to Ot? How many times was it thrown, and what ministers threw that dead son of a bitch over the fence?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U151	Thank you, Jürgen, for a very good question. The honest answer is that we discussed this matter on Thursday and saw the table as well. As you know, in Excel's tables, some lines might go off. And the lines of the ministries were shifted from one point to one point in the entire table, and it was very clearly under the regional minister's field at that point. But on Monday, when we looked exactly like this, I asked the Ministry of Finance how the other ministries have come back here. And that's exactly how Regina The Outdoor explained it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U152	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Firstly, a brief question on the question of a good colleague, Hanno Pevkur, would continue. He asked whether the Government of the Republic supported these regional investments or whether it only gave an opinion. But now my own question. There are very many pensioner associations on this regional investment list, but there are considerably fewer of them than there are actually groups in Estonia. Can you confirm that all associations of pensioners operating in Estonia are fantastic associations, receiving budget subsidies after the end of the third reading of the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U154	Thank you. I hope I am not wrong in terms of memory, but EUR 50000 was allocated from regional investment funds to the Alliance of pensioners. It should be distributed to umbrella organisations operating in all Estonian counties, and it should provide support to all associations of pensioners. But I'm sure this decision will be made by the Alliance of Retirement. I'm gonna find the place they asked about right now. The Government of the Republic has assessed all the suggestions for improvement and has responded to which points it supports and which points it does not support. Among those supported by the government are regional investments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U155	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U156	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, To Mrs Alender, you replied that we could talk about large numbers, not small or regional investments. I agree with this and I have also written about it that I do not believe that these are regional investments, because by distributing 5000 or 10000 euros of Estonian money from the Riigikogu, we actually do not fix anything. A playground or a dog walk is not a regional investment. But you wanted to talk about big numbers. That's what I want, too. To Aivar Sõerd, who asked about investments, you said that he should know everything because he is a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I am not a member of this committee, but I am sure that as your chairman you can talk about investments. Please then explain to a simple member of the Riigikogu who is not a member of the Monetary Commission to what extent investments in the 2021 budget will rise compared to 2020. You can probably name exact numbers as an expert. Please mention some of the major investments that are included in the 2021 budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U157	Thank you. First of all, thank you for a good question. I must admit that this is not the subject you are asking for between second and third readings. You will be able to withdraw the investment table provided at the first reading of the draft state budget. Here, on several good pages, investment-related activities are listed. I can read a few from here if I want to. For example, the Health Insurance Fund will receive 143 million for grants and investments next year. The Ministry of Education and Research has been allocated a total of EUR 45 million for investments. The Ministry of Defence will receive EUR 50 million, with a total of EUR 400 million for road investments. For hospital investment... I can't find it fast, but there's a whole lot of hospitals, like Viljandi Hospital or PERH, with at least 12 million single-stage investments. These major investments are all included in the budget and could be taken from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U158	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U159	Thank you. You are the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and you have probably become one, because you also have a certain weight in the government union. In this context, I ask how your own moral compass is: is there a limit to these things somewhere? For example, in a country where the country and the church are divorced and which is one of the most religious in the world, we are shoveling taxpayers' money into one confession by millions. It doesn't give me any hesitation. You are defending the need to give money to anti-absorbers, which, frankly, is already on the brink of constitutionality. That doesn't make you hesitate, either. I don't know, well, let's imagine there's some kind of anti-vaccine NGO, can we give him some money from the state budget? Or, for example, an NGO promoting the death penalty would give money to campaign. Is there a line or isn't there a line? If the ambassadors do, we'll shovel the money, and that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U160	Thank you. First of all, I have never said that I support abortions. That's a sentence I haven't said in this podium or anywhere else. I'm the father of three daughters. This request does not state that propaganda against abortion will be carried out. It has to be said very clearly that if there is a contract between the Ministry and this NGO and there is a line of this, I will say that it is an investment that has gone into a very wrong place. But neither you nor I decide alone, there are 101 members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber and decisions are made with the majority votes. There are certainly decisions that we all like, and there are decisions that not everyone likes, and they are being debated and debated, and the final decision is still being taken in the vote. I'm sure you know from your experience, Evgeny, that when you're in government, you have to make decisions that you don't like a hundred percent. There were decisions you had to fight so hard for because you liked the idea, but others didn't. Consensual agreements had to be sought. One part of politics is seeking consensus, trying to make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U161	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, As chairman of the committee, you will understand that if the public considers that taxpayers' money is allocated to non-profit organisations that have not applied for money or have just been created, some time before the money is made available, that will give a very bad impression. But you noted that the ministries are entering into agreements with the NGOs or other organisations to which the Riigikogu has allocated money. I have received signals from local governments, but this has to do with last year's experience, after all, this year's experience has not yet a hundred percent, that they were forced to make contracts with NGOs that they did not consider to be very good partners in their own territory. Rather, they were considered to be suspicious partners, but the municipalities were forced to make these contracts. There were also examples that, in fact, contracts were forced with non-profit institutions that were not located in the territory of a particular municipality. Are you aware of this and are you 100% sure that all contracts will be concluded through the Ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U163	Thank you. I know that, in this year's budget and during last year's budget, there were such problems. In this respect, it is very clear from next year's budget that if money has been allocated to a registered NGO, the money will go directly to them, not through the municipalities. Then there will be no such situation that the municipality does not want, as you said in Urmas, to cooperate with this NGO and conclude a contract. On the other hand, it is also known that municipalities have not always used the money for what was included in the budget, but for something else. If we look at this investment line now, we can see that, in most cases, the recipient of the money is the one that has been proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U164	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U165	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! I'm here to help you explain to all of us how the money of the known anti-abortion organization has moved between different ministries. First of all, it was under the Home Office, and it was reported that it didn't match up with these subjects. Then it landed under the Ministry of Social Affairs, then under the Minister of State Administration, and eventually headed back under the Ministry of the Interior. But that's it. We actually had a few other strange divisions on the subject of discussion in the Commission. I am thinking of allocating money to a Holstre association that did not apply for money and to the Orthodox Moscow Church, which is rich anyway. The Committee on Monetary Affairs can actually make its own proposals and change such obviously dubious money allocations. Why didn't you take this opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U166	Thank you. It would be good if it were possible for one person to make decisions in the Riigikogu. Of course, much would depend on who this one is, but the other 100 wouldn't have to be in the hall and work. Thank God that there is no timokraati in Estonia, there is still democracy. We have 11 members in the Commission, and there are 101 members in this Chamber, and it is always possible to make different proposals and offer solutions. Of course, we had this debate, these issues were on the table. Some NGOs had been given investment funds to repair the premises, although there were no rooms yet. But I would like to stress once again that if there are no such premises, it is not possible for the Ministry to enter into a contract with this NGO. The money is earmarked for a very specific matter and, if it is to change the area of activity for which the money has been allocated, it cannot be done because it is listed in a separate section of the state budget. Yeah, right, roof money, for all investments, it's always the question that someone has one heart, someone else and someone else. What one likes, the other doesn't like. Surely the one who has made a suggestion will ardently protect it until the last breath. These proposals do not fit in. That's what we can argue about here. Among these 650 amendments are those that we strongly support, and there are those that we do not support. But these are the coalition's joint proposals and the coalition's support for them today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U167	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U168	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The non-profit association Life Mars has received disproportionate attention and received it from one angle, which is absorptive. My question relates to the fact that the purpose of Life Mars according to the statute is to develop cooperation between Christian congregations and organizations in Estonia and other countries in order to promote the development of culture and high morals in Estonia. Major events, conferences, seminars, advertising, study material, audio-video channels, websites are intended to carry out this project. The Prime Minister has said that public money is not used to promote a marriage referendum. My question is: can you confirm that the government, by giving this money, is convinced that this money is not going to promote a marriage referendum?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U169	Thank you, Signe! I cannot give any assurance here about how a contract will be concluded between the Ministry and a specific non-profit organisation and how the management board of a particular non-profit organisation and the users of this money will behave. I hope that at least it has been confirmed to me that this money will not be used for this kind of propaganda. But I can't be there somewhere to hold my hand, whether they do it or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U170	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question is about the amendment that was made to support the transition to a common Estonian-language education. We wanted to further support the organisation of study support for non-Estonian children at the Estonian-language school. This is actually a very big problem. There was a debate on Monday in this Chamber, and there were quite a few questions about what I have just mentioned. The Fatherland Group did not object to this. That would have been weird, of course, because it was in your election promises. You didn't vote. You are one of the strong players in the coalition and in the government, why did you not support this objective and this amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U172	Thank you. To comment, good Signe, I can tell you that if I look at the current budget, there will be 8 million euros in next year's budget for the transition to a single Estonian-language education. And we know that this transition must take place gradually. And this 8 million was allocated to support the acquisition of Estonian by children from different mother tongues.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U173	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I also have a question about sharing these 'roof money'. An organization such as Russki Mir, which has been erected and maintained by special Russian services, uses the churches of the Moscow Patriarchate all over the world for its influence. I could give you examples, but in terms of saving time, I'm going ahead. How is it justified that the churches of the Moscow Patriarchate are financed for the money of the Estonian taxpayer? The Moscow Patriarchate has the largest estates in the world, along with mineral resources and industries and such. How do you answer that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U175	Thank you for a good question. It is not easy to answer, but the answer is that the congregations operating on the territory of Estonia are supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U176	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, When you answered the question of my bench neighbour, Mr Gridship, you mentioned some investments, but his main question was how much investment will increase in 2021 compared to the 2020 state budget. I would ask for this specific amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U178	I don't know how much I can tell right now. Definitely, if you take some time and patch the folder, you can take that number out too. But there is one very clear question in the calculation of this year's and next year's investment volumes. Local authorities have received more than EUR 100 million in additional budgets, a very large part of which is in this year's budget, but actually will be realised next year and will count as surplus investments not included in the investments in 2021. If you look at the total amount of investment in this year's budget, together with the additional budget, it is clear that this year's total volume will not be used and that part will go to next year. This decision has been made that this money can also be invested in 2021. But the ratio between the volume of investments is more or less equal this year and next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U179	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U180	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Martin Helme, who was responsible for the Prime Minister's duties today, said in briefing that the churches were being held open to support people's mental health. When we look at the state budget for next year, mental health received EUR 400000 as permanent funding, which is intended for the professional year of clinical psychologists and a one-off allocation of money, together with our amendment EUR 825000. It seems to me so... As you say, we don't support abortions, but, well, we support them from the state budget. At the same time, we all consider matters of mental health to be important, but we do not want to support them from the state budget very much. My question is: for roofing money, you will find 6.5 million with elegant ease, but you have not found 1 million as permanent funding to support mental health. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U181	Thank you, Liina, for a good question. I know I promised to support you in the training of psychologists. And the Committee on Monetary Affairs unanimously supported this proposal. Thank you for proposing this amendment. At the same time, I would like to raise another topic. Sometimes you really don't get a deal. Much depends on where someone has proposed improvements. The same social area is still the subject of the Social Affairs Committee and you are actively and strongly involved in its work. The Finance Committee still expects proposals to come through other Riigikogu committees. Then, too, the power of the proposal is quite different from that of the Commission. Before the third reading, only one amendment came from the Riigikogu Commission and was clearly supported in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I've gotten us a lot on social issues over the last week. Somehow it is believed that the Committee on Monetary Affairs is generally able to keep up to date with all the issues and solve all the problems. With our good colleague Urmas, we are concerned about agriculture. But the proposal to support it came from the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We are concerned about the state of the health insurance fund and the reimbursement of sick days in the social field, but this proposal came from another Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Finance Committee looks forward to the support of Riigikogu committees on certain topics. And it must always be taken into account that there is a limit on the revenue and expenditure of the state budget somewhere. Today, on the one hand, we criticise the fact that the budget is structurally and nominally negative. At the same time, we are always talking about what other investments are needed, which areas should be supported more next year. And these are fixed costs, not one-off costs. Support for the economy is the most important part of the state budget. With the support of the economy, the revenue and tax receipts of the state will grow and this money will be able to invest in concrete or welfare, whether it be teachers' wages or social benefits. In any case, I thank all the members of the Riigikogu for fighting for and worrying about different areas. I certainly want to start by forgetting to congratulate all the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Thanks to such a well-functioning and highly necessary constructive criticism, this is one of the best committees I have had the honour of leading. Thank you to all Members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U182	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U183	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Indeed, this minus is a concern in the state budget. This certainly leads to the idea that the honorary chairman of your party once wanted to write the budget balance into the constitution. And you certainly cannot be proud of this budget yourself. But I would like to ask about the Reform Party's amendment, which meant a one-off cost and was linked to the tourism sector that was very badly hit during the Coronary period. Finance Minister Martin Helme said here a few hours ago that there is no political will to support this sector. Would you open it to our amendment, why it was not supported? Was the Commission also a question of a lack of political will to help the tourism sector overcome this crisis? This sector may have been hit hardest. What was behind supporting this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U184	Thank you. First of all, it must be borne in mind that the additional budget gave the government the right to use quite large amounts of money from the government reserve to solve the problem of COVID. These tools are still available to date enough to come out of different situations. Yes, you have indeed proposed to support the increase in tourism demand, the organisation of international conferences and other events, the development of tourism companies and tourism attractions of international interest. But several times, this year with an additional budget, the tourism sector has been supported. It is clear that the tourism sector has been hit the most. But can anyone tell us how to support Tallinn? This concern is greater in Tallinn than in rural areas, where domestic tourism has helped quite a lot. Maintaining all hotels for a year, paying for it from the state budget, this is not the most realistic solution. But I would like to emphasise once again that the government has been given the additional budget for this year to support certain sectors. These decisions can be taken by the government if it sees that this is necessary and practical.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U185	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U186	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, My question also comes about Amendment 3: regional investment. The question is this: do you not think that this proposal would rather increase regional inequality? Among these 668 proposals, I find the right number of support for Tallinn. At the same time, several municipalities are correct, where no investment is planned, such as the Cannabis municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U187	Thank you. I sincerely hope that those members of the Riigikogu who made proposals for regional investment still looked very closely at their electoral area and took all the municipalities into account there. If the elected representatives of South Estonia have really forgotten some municipalities, then that is a bad thing. I must say from my experience that, despite the fact that in most municipalities the Fatherland is not in power, all the electoral regions or all the local authorities were equally supported by me. After all, you still ask the local government leaders and colleagues what are the points there, which NGO or civil society would need the most support. The question here is that some applications have not been made. People are different. Some politicians write about it every day where they gave their investment grants. And there are others who do not write or talk about it, but they go around in their own constituency more and see that somewhere there are very good civil societies that could be supported. And I hope that these associations will just be pleased that at some point they will receive either operating support or investment support.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U188	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U189	Thank you, good manager. Good Aivar! I will listen to these questions and answers on the roofing money, which is so much under attention here, but also on the most important budget lines in general. Given that we have already dealt with the draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I have one constructive proposal concerning greater budgetary transparency and accountability. And I ask you if you are willing to support it in the committee. Even before this bill becomes a law, we are actually starting to look at the expenditure side of the budget on a regular basis. We're starting this in January.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U190	Good Andres! You set up your question somehow, so maybe I misunderstood it a little bit. I hope that we will adopt this draft today, but in January we will start by resolving these concerns during the debate on next year's budget, so that the draft is more transparent and the allocation of regional investment is very clear or at least clearer than this year. Last year, too, the problem of allocating regional investments was that the funds had been allocated to the NGO registered a few days earlier. We actually discussed in the Commission that there should be at least one year of action to see what someone has been doing, but since we have not finalised it on paper, it is not specifically written, we could not say to some associations this year that he is too young, too fresh and we reject the request. But in the last sitting of the Commission, if I remember correctly, Maris' proposal was that we come back to this issue. And we agreed, in a consensus, that at the beginning of the year we would take these issues to the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U191	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U192	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I am quite sad that every time I talk about the need for additional funding in the field of mental health, I get the answer that there is a profit and cost limit somewhere. Yes, the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is: there is always a profit and expenditure limit somewhere. That is the question of political choices, whether to separate 6.5 million into roofing money or to take care of the mental health of our children, which signals a significant deterioration. This year, many of the necessary things really got funding, but only one-off funding. And it's obvious that exactly one year from now, we'll be here with the exact same topics again. When do you think the Estonian society will be so prepared that it will be ready to continue financing the mental health of children?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U193	I hope that the economy will recover and that these decisions can be made in the near future. Your proposal includes support for the training of school psychologists as an additional improvement in the budget. Of course I agree with you, Liina, that this funding could be more and more and should not be guaranteed as a one-off measure. We could have an agreement that it has been funded year after year through the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U194	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U195	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, thank you very much. Remember, you made me a promise about an investment for which our good colleague Jüri Jaanson has stood for a very, very long time. I believe you, and that is why I am asking you, in the meantime, that we have not communicated on this subject, whether you have fulfilled that promise. Is such an investment included in next year's budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U196	Thank you. I asked you, just in case, maybe I wasn't in all the discussions either. But yes, it's entered the budget that I promised you. My heart was heavy back then. Not because of this promise, but because it didn't work out the way it was meant to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U197	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U198	Thank you, good manager. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! In Question Time today, the Minister of Finance very confidently confirmed, in answering the questions of roofing money, that the roof money is shared by Parliament, he knows nothing, he has not confirmed anything, he has done nothing. He has nothing to do with it, he says. That's what it says in the verbatim. And he also thought that anyone who wanted to direct the money from the roof to someone could confess it under their own name and answer questions. However, at the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we had such a situation that we did not really get information about who came up with what kind of desire and who wants to direct the roof money to whom. Similarly, the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs were unable to change any line. It was not even possible to leave out the money to an organisation that has publicly said that it does not want this support. So where is the truth? Is it possible for the Riigikogu to share, change, make decisions about the roofing money? Why did the Committee on Monetary Affairs not do anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U199	Thank you. Let's start with the first half. All proposals for improvement that come between second and third readings must be the subject of an opinion from both the Commission and the Government. And both the Commission and the government have given their opinions. That's the answer to the first question. And among them was the proposed improvement on regional investment. Perhaps in the Minister's sense that he has not read every line and got into their contents, but it is the government's duty and it is given to give an opinion on the proposed amendments. Surely it is also possible that each member proposes separately, everyone does so one by one. Then, of course, this would be a pretty interesting situation. It certainly depends much on how friendly or unfriendly they are. That is why joint amendments are proposed so that there is a single proposal. Here's the honest answer. But as we have agreed, as a good Member of the Commission, we will take it to the table and, at least in a large way, try to find a consensus on the conditions under which the proposals for improvement should be met or on the organisation to which the allocation is to be made. If anyone asks me, I honestly admit that I like the support given to civil society organisations because they are people who actually do some good things from their own time and usually free of charge. But I'm sure, as I said before, there can always be a tar drop in the honey pot that ruins all the honey.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U200	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U201	Thank you for the floor. Following my words: I understand that, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you have just admitted that there is such a huge tar drop in this honey pot that all the honey has been ruined, so the budget has gone to waste. I'll take the mask off. You admitted that this budget has gone to waste because there's a huge tar drop in the honey pot. Do you agree with what President Kersti Kaljulaid of the Republic of Estonia said recently giving an interview on the ERR broadcast that the message of this government in this budget is unambiguous when it comes to what we are mainly talking about here. EUR 171000 for a non-profit organisation that makes anti-abortion propaganda and EUR 2 million for a referendum that only one party needs to meet its political ambitions. Is that the main message for this budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U202	First of all, it would still be good to be quoted correctly. I understand that as a person with good acting skills, you like to add a little juicy. I certainly have not said that this budget has been ruined and that there are huge tar drops in this honey pot. I'm just making a figurative example that one tar drop could ruin a whole honey can. Of course, always, whatever budget lines you look at, here in the saalisk, everyone has a certain area that is closer to the heart. This area may be looked at a little bit more closely, looking at whether or not the grants allocated to it are sufficient. And maybe some other areas will be seen less. As I have said, there has been a joint proposal by three political groups and perhaps lines in it that one likes and the other does not like. You can always argue about that. But if anyone asks me if I support the anti-abortion movement, they certainly don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U203	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U204	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Here's the question. You said you liked civil society. I like them, too. But I mean, civil society organisations are mostly made up of citizens. At the moment, I am looking at this budget and looking at these roofing moneys as well, I feel that you do not quite understand what is the greatest concern and what is the closest solution to this. I want to talk about vaccines. Here's the question. We also learned in Question Time that Estonia intends to vaccinate half the population in the next year and 50,000 people in the first quarter. I'm looking at other countries. United States: 100 million in 100 days. Sweden intends to vaccinate all over 18 years of age during the first half of the year. I have the question: do you not have any thoughts of your own, or are you not a little ashamed that you are pudding 6.5 million to a large extent to some strange NGOs, rather than saying that this time we are buying vaccines, so that the citizens who make up these civil societies can quickly start living better?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U205	Thank you. First of all, the advance payments for vaccines have already been made from the government reserve and the government reserve also has funds for the purchase of vaccines. How many vaccines can a country receive in the first place is always a question of what kind of agreements are. As far as I am aware, agreements and joint procurements in the European Union have been carried out in such a way that all European countries that have joined the agreement and have made advance payments from their budget should receive the vaccine on the same basis. It should also be stressed that the use of the vaccine is voluntary and should not be forced to inject in any way. How much vaccine can you get and how soon can you get it? First of all, the vaccine is not yet in use. Moscow already has today, but I have realised that these vaccines will not be bought in by the European Union and that the rights to use most of the other vaccines will only come at the end of this year. If these rights exist, then surely the Estonian state will receive its vaccines. And today no one knows what the outcome or consequences of using the vaccine are. I guess we read in the press a few days ago about those who have already tried their vaccines and which are contraindications and which are not. Each country has made its own agreements, but today there is an agreement that vaccines will be purchased and next year the vaccine will be offered free of charge to Estonian citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U206	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U207	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Last autumn in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we talked a lot about the difficulty of reading the budget, it is opaque, but the budget will be different next year. Last year we talked about the fact that the arrangements for the distribution of roofing money, such as it has now become, are not really acceptable. That there will also be support from organisations that have been operating for a very short time, and we do not know what will be done with this money. Now we're in the fall a year later, but actually, those problems are still there. Can you confirm from the remote that next year the budget statement will be understandable to the normal person and will no longer be shared according to the current system of roofing money? Is the Committee on Monetary Affairs working on this for a year now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U208	Thank you. With the help of the TV bridge, you yourself attended the last meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and those decisions were taken by consensus. We had a suggestion that we would take these issues on the table, and the Ministry of Finance was given the task of thinking about how the budget would be more transparent already a month and a half ago. We agreed to look at the rooftop money in such a way that it wouldn't be the same situation as it was last year. Then your group had a child of concern, and this year there are children of concern in another place. We should at least lay down the basics and not be wrong about these basics. Actually, we've agreed something, but since it's not on paper in any way, everyone says they don't remember exactly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U209	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U210	Thank you. Good waitress! I listened to this answer to Riina Sikkut's question concerning the distribution of roofing money, and it turned out that something could no longer be changed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You said that it had been agreed before in the Riigikogu that these funds would be distributed in this way, even if there was something among them that did not like. So where's the deal? This is an opportunity for the Riigikogu to share money, to decide who should receive regional support. I don't know, we have 34 seats in the Riigikogu, which is actually a third of the Riigikogu, but we are not involved in such a debate. What does this have to do with the Riigikogu? Where can we participate in these discussions if, for example, the Committee on Monetary Affairs is not the place where these decisions are taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U211	All members of the Riigikogu, all political groups, all committees can make regional investment proposals to the Finance Committee. Certainly among the committees there is also the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which can make these proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U212	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U213	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I would like to congratulate you that, at last reading, you promised me a written answer and you did a very correct answer...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U214	It's late tonight!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U215	... suddenly in the morning or so. And now I was wondering if you could give me another written answer. It is not possible to answer this question now, because it may be too large, but you do have this information. I'm just interested in Annex 3. Which member of the Riigikogu made the suggestion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U216	I can immediately say without writing that no proposals were made by any member of the Riigikogu alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U217	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U218	President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! You basically answered my first question, and you didn't. You started telling me that the vaccines were coming, ordered and paid in advance. But we know now that there will be an insolent few in Estonia compared to other countries. The question is, you also said you needed money or ambition or something. I don't know which one was missing. Which one did Estonia lack in order to obtain more vaccines? In case of lack of ambition, Estonia can also order in addition to what the European Union has ordered. Several countries of the European Union have done so. Estonia has not done so. Estonia has not even joined all the agreements that the European Union has signed. The question is, if ambition was lacking, I'd like you to banish your coalition mates. If the money was missing, wouldn't it be a good idea to give up the roofing money and send a vaccine to all these NGOs and villages?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U219	Thank you. You're much better informed than I am, if you know exactly how many contracts have been signed and how many contracts have not been signed. I know that EUR 30 million has been earmarked for the purchase of vaccines in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U220	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U221	Thank you, good vice-mistress! Good waitress! In this debate, I have realized that the NGOs that are currently on this list are all kind of like criminal organisations. And obviously, the interest of us ambassadors is precisely that the next time we make these proposals, and when we formalize them, we will not be wrong again. Are there any of the so-called good NGOs proposed by the Reform Party who can receive support if you see as ambassador that they need help? And should the NGOs we are discussing on this draft be enforced? Are there any facts that we do not know here, or is that just the opinion of one party that these NGOs are very bad and very suspicious?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U222	I have not heard anything about any of the issues raised in this Chamber that all NGOs or other civil society organisations to whom money has been allocated are bad or that they should be wound up. There has been a debate on the allocation of funds to some NGOs. And the Reform Party also proposed improvements. Not directly about NGOs, but about improving the state budget, with quite a lot of money. And there were some good suggestions for improvement. I don't think this hall should be the place where we're trying to say that some are better than others. I think that most civil society organisations are very good, contributing to the development of Estonian society and its region in any field. I am now reminding you that the last one, literally at the last minute, asked me for support from a rescue team to clean up their building. And I was happy to support this command within my capabilities and means. I think everybody's doing a good job. At the same time, I say that there can always be places where something is wrong. Indeed, just as society is made up of very different people, so there are those who are very active and there is a majority of them, and there are certainly those who do not work as they should. But I cannot make any such comments in this budget debate. I hope that those MPs who made their proposals through the political groups have calculated very carefully, for whom and for which they have made support for this small regional investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U223	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U224	Thank you. In response to Tarmo Kruusimägi, you kind of said it was like your own money, that you supported the rescue command on the basis of your options, because he approached you at the last minute. Do you think it is right that the national taxpayer's money is distributed according to who gets hit by you or other coalition ambassadors? And the second question: did the Committee on Monetary Affairs also have a debate on the fact that, as we have a health crisis and also an economic crisis, many sectors get hit, we could give up these roofing money and allocate it instead to Ida-Viru County, for example, to deal with the health crisis and other current problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U225	Thank you. It's definitely not my personal money that got separated. That was my proposal. If I made a mistake in any way, I'm sorry. My proposal was to grant support there. At the same time, I don't think it's a good idea to raise that question, Echo. It's not a lie, that's not what I'm saying, but maybe it's not for the best. This is simply because civil society organisations have similarly been burned during the Corona virus pandemic. A lot of the things they may have made a profit with in the past have not been done this year. Much has been said about supporting the congregations. Congregations live in most donations. There are those who have ever been given forest and agricultural land, and those who have very expensive real estate that they can rent, too, but there are still very few. Most congregations have been through this summer period very difficult. The same applies to sports clubs, village societies, cultural societies whose events have been cancelled. I can tell from experience, I'm also organizing charity concerts for my money, not for the penthouse money or for anyone else's money. But this year, before Christmas, I announced that the event would be canceled. This congregation has usually received proper support for this charity concert in the form of donations. This time he won't get a Christmas donation like this, but we'll donate to him the other way around: the money I should have paid the band will now be the congregation. Yeah, it's complicated times. Never has the money so much that everyone who wants gets as much as they want. I guess the question is always on the table, to whom how much and whether this is the fairest distribution that is currently being proposed, or whether there would be a better solution. Well, a lot depends on the coalition that's in power right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U226	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U227	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I remembered from my colleague's question that you promised me, in connection with another bill, to send a list. This concerned local authorities and lending. But you still haven't sent it, send it after today's trial. My question, however, is about the amendment on long-term care and access to a nursing home for a pension. Municipalities could at least be allocated money to create new social services so that people can live longer at home. You have not supported it in your actions, but in your words you have always been very supportive and have admitted that as a former head of the municipality or as a governor of the country, you know the big problem of paying for a nursing home. Can you say that next year is not in the budget, and we are promised that it will come in 2022, that you will stand up for this problem to be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U228	Thank you. First of all, I'm sorry I really forgot to send you a loan table. If we don't make it tonight, we'll try to send it to you tomorrow morning. You and I have been with you in the Committee on Social Affairs, and I think we made a number of historical decisions back then. But no decision is a decision of one person, but all must be agreed by the Commission, on the one hand, and certainly also by the coalition, on the other. So was your proposals on compensation for sick days. You had a proposal to make amends from day one, but I know you had a compromise agreement to make amends from day two. There was a proposal by the Committee on Monetary Affairs to make this amendment to the law, and we also put funds into the budget. There have been many other steps in the social field. Your colleague, Ivar Padari, had a problem with the self-employed. Yesterday, there were very, very few people in the Chamber, but we finished our second reading on one draft, according to which self-employed workers will be able to deduct another EUR 500 from the income from the sale of agricultural products in the following year. We'll try to solve these problems. If anyone today says that tomorrow, I am sure that everything will be resolved, it will be a lie, because every budget debate will have a very big fight between all ministries. Everyone's short of resources. The subject of nursing homes is, of course, very complicated and I have always said so here on the floor and elsewhere. As one of the leaders of the local government, I have to admit that I also have this role, I sat in my office with the others this morning and we discussed the issue of large families with concern. Some homes don't even have water in them, not to mention the bathroom and all that. These topics are on the table, and solutions are being sought for them. But finding a solution to nursing homes isn't easy. Because let us be honest, if any solution has been found to support families, then there is a likelihood that the payment for a nursing home will increase at some point. We've seen the pay rise every year in April. I hope I understand your question correctly. But solutions are being sought, and certainly every municipality will do so. What scratches my soul most is that if mothers and fathers have raised children, their children will have to pay the difference between a hundred percent pension and a place fee. But for those who don't have children, the municipality pays. Such inequality is currently enshrined in the law. There is no good solution today, but it is definitely being sought.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U229	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U230	Thank you very much. Good Aivar, I have a question. Look, you're a relatively old person here, unlike me, who I've been in Parliament for a little while. We have a lot of talk in this Chamber today about roofing money using the derogatory word 'roof money'. In fact, this support has a much more beautiful name, "regional investment." But okay, let's talk about penthouse money. It's always looked like the EKRE invented the rooftop money or, at worst, the coalition invented it, and now it's been implemented. I can't tell you exactly, but please explain to the public where the roof money comes from. Since when do they use it? Did the EKRE really come up with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U231	I hope I'm not mistaken, but from the beginning of this century, this investment option applies. And I have to admit, when I was in the municipality or the governor of the country, it was a great pleasure when the elected ambassadors called and asked where the shoe in Jõgeva County was most squeezed, and it was possible to receive support from the state budget. Today, the leaders of local governments or civil society are addressing us in exactly the same way. There are always different concepts of whether an investment or a financial allocation made to this, another or third is right or not, but I think that every member of the Riigikogu could have a small chance to support its own region. In fact, at present, 15 ministers, no one else, have a great opportunity for support.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U232	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U233	Good manager! Good waitress! Colleagues Kristina Šmigun and Andres Sutt are innocent thanks to their short careers in Parliament. However, this cannot be said of my colleague Jürgen Ligi and of Mr Toomast and not even Kaja Kallas. They've all shared hundreds of thousands of roofing money. But my question is: does the Committee on Monetary Affairs have a file or an overview of how and to whom these honourable colleagues have been roofing over the years or decades? How much have they spent, and what does this have to do with the NGOs they've been offering the roof to?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U234	Thank you. I'm sure it's not personal. When the political groups apply, we do not know who is behind any proposal from the members of the Riigikogu. But the proposals of the political groups are certainly all there is. They are part of the State Budget Act and so you can also look afterwards at what the group has allocated regional investment grants to which organisation at different times.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U235	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U236	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I sincerely thank you for saying that supporting non-profit organisations is not the devil and the NPO is not the bad thing, despite the fact that the press may want to paint such a monstrous monster from them that should not be supported. However, I do not understand, and I think that perhaps you also discussed the fact that this year there is an understanding that anti-abortion is such a life-prohibiting organisation. But what's the opposite of them, such a life-yes organization, NGO? Everything has one side and the other half. Who do we know to support next time? Who would be a bad, live-in organization? Did that name sound like you guys at the hearing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U237	Thank you, Tarmo! This issue was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U238	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U239	Thank you! I will, however, make another correction for you: the roofing money actually came into use in the last century. As I recall, it was the government of Mart Siimann who really began to improve the situation. And these were primarily regional investments, which literally improved roofs in the region, etc. That's the name of the penthouse money. But that's it. What prompted me to ask the second question is that you said that NPOs are now also in difficulty, and that the situation has become difficult. I get it, I've dealt with the NGOs myself. But I'm gonna divide the NGO into young and old. Some of them are old in the sense that they have a clear vision, they have worked for years, and now, indeed, because of the crisis, they may have been in trouble. But how can the NGO Life Mars, who was created only in June this year, be left in trouble? What are his economic difficulties? What activity has he developed? It's not like you're right to put everybody together. That's a comment, there's no question. Or we might ask how he has been in financial trouble when he has been created in a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U240	It's just that you took a slice of my answer. Kaja Kallas merely commented that there was a problem and there was nowhere. I have simply noted that civil society organisations have had the same concerns as many other organisations and businesses. In the spring, with an additional budget, we have supported a large number of companies, even through unemployment insurance, to pay wages. We have never discussed in this Chamber whether all companies that used wage subsidies in March-April-May used this money on an ad hoc basis or at some point made wages 30% lower or something like that, because it was such a difficult period. If we look today, because this year has quickly been made important decisions, the Estonian economy is much less than our neighbours around.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U241	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U242	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Next year the balance of the state budget will deteriorate further. The Minister of Finance says that if we borrow, we'll grow out of the minus. What do you think of this as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U243	Thank you. I guess we'll just have to look at it from two sides. If you just take the sentence that you're taking out a loan and that you're growing the economy out of the minus, it's wrong on the one hand. But on the other hand, if investment is made in those sectors or activities that boost and strengthen the economy, which will also improve the revenue base in the state budget as a result of economic growth in the coming years, that is the right answer. So you have to look at that line both ways. We spoke here a moment or a few questions about the concerns of the road builders. It is logical that the country should also find additional resources next year to bring these road investments forward, which are planned to be used over the next four to five years. But I've told you before in this podium that we've had a big problem. Over the years, it has been feared to borrow for investments and in this context very important projects have not been carried out. And if there are no projects, it is not possible to build either. We see today that the designers have a long line ahead, the design times are relatively long. We would have 2 + 2 road projects in road construction today... During the previous government, it was agreed very clearly that 2 + 2 roads would be made, but the head of the Road Administration said that over his dead body, and still built the roads that we had to ride Peter and stand behind the tractors. So what if there's 100 badges, we're going to be driving 70 to 80. So wrong investments have been made, but new investments have also been made. Investment in the right place will certainly boost the economy, and it will also improve the ability to repay loans and tax receipts.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U244	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U245	Thank you, manager. Dear Chairman of the Commission, good Aivar! I don't ask about the penthouse money. In my opinion, it is one of the right things to do if it is done fairly, if criteria have been set for the period during which a specific NGO must have been formed. And the decision-maker must not be involved. Then it works really well, and I think it's one of the best things. But instead, I'm asking about the farmers, so as to find out, I don't have any clarity for the rest of my life. It is clear that Estonian farmers were one of the drivers of economic growth in the third quarter of this year. However, when I look at these budget lines, there is really nothing for farmers next year. This year there were 10 million transitional grants, and there will be no transitional grants for the following year. But I ask where this 12 million emergency support is taken from. Is this reflected in the budget for this year or in the state budget for next year? This is very important and has misled many farmers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U246	Thank you. The EUR 12 million will be reflected in this year's state budget. It was adopted last week as an amendment in this Chamber and this 12 million allocation plan was also included. I understand that this was also introduced in the Committee on Rural Affairs, although some say it was not introduced. However, I have been firmly told by some Members of the Commission that they have been introduced, and this sentence has been added to this budget in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This came as an amendment to the 2020 budget, and last week it was also approved in this Chamber. Or was it the week before last? Last week was a week off. Yeah, last week it was confirmed in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U247	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U248	Thank you. Understandably, this original idea of roofing money is far removed from regional investments. The roof of the kindergarten, the church tower, the stairs of the cultural centre, accessibility to the wider range of people, is completely reasonable and understandable. In other words, perhaps this money should then be given to the local government's revenue base so that the local government can autonomously solve the problems of its life. At the same time, it is completely incomprehensible to support non-profit organisations. It is completely opaque and, in fact, excludes fair competition. After all, all non-profit organisations are struggling with funding, especially now in the Coronary era. This Gambling Tax Council system, by which the state would otherwise finance non-profit organisations, is now changed, however, is not sustainable. But shutting down its holes in such a way that it is not fair or equal for different non-profit organisations is simply incorrect.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U249	Thank you, Signe! I don't want to agree with you, and I don't. If someone in this hall says that NPOs are meaningless, or as Tarmo asked before, if there is perhaps no point in supporting them and there is no need for them, then I am afraid that something has somehow been misunderstood. If there were no support for non-profits today... I do not know if any member of the Riigikogu really thinks that supporting non-profit institutions or having non-profit institutions is wrong. [[They say something in the hall.]] I'm sorry, but I realized from this text that NPOs are not the ones that should be supported. Wasn't that a line? (There is more to be said.) I'm sorry if I'm wrong!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U250	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U251	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm gonna keep doing the same thing. You said that in the form of state budget documents, the distributions of roofing money are at least in the archives by political groups. But are there any such analyses or files in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which have been, for example, the NGOs supported by the Group of the Honourable Reform Party all along the way? Who has the money gone to, and what is the broader picture? Maybe next year would be a clear picture. There are a lot of NGOs, but my modest analysis, which is incomplete, shows that there are also clearly party NGOs, including the Reform Party. Is there such an overview? If it is, you don't have to do so much work yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U252	Thank you. As far as I know, such an overview has never been made, and no one has ever made such a wish before, at least in my time, when I have led the Commission. It is possible to see all of this every year in the state budget after the third reading. But if anyone wants to do this kind of analysis and take out an NGO, I think there's a lot of non-profits that get less than 10,000 euros. But perhaps, Peter, there are also those who have received larger sums and can look at the background back there. I do hope that no member of the Riigikogu has given support to an organisation that is self-related. That would be against the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U253	Thank you, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? On behalf of the Maris Lauri Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U254	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U255	Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U256	Ladies and gentlemen, The budget for 2021 is a bad budget because it is irresponsible and does not deal with the things that should be dealt with. The main part of the budget is always inevitable, so it cannot be either good or bad in the main. The current assessment will depend on what is added to the so-called main budget, depending on the changes and decisions that will be taken in this context. There is a bit of good in this budget, but so much bad in this budget that it does not balance positive things in any way. First of all, the good ones. It is good that, between second and third readings, the government coalition also realised that the crisis has exacerbated children's mental health. It is therefore good that the proposals put forward by the opposition, which were rejected, have now received the support of the government. This applies not only to the school psychologists' school year but also to the children's helpline and other things. It took a long time, but I'm glad they finally got there, and I really hope that these things will become permanent. But now for those very, very bad things that mess up the whole picture. Firstly, the budget deficit. a deficit that is not in line with economic conditions. Economic growth is expected, there is hope of managing it in the corona crisis, but nevertheless Estonia is the only country in the European Union, which widens the budget deficit. The situation of the Estonian economy and health care is not bad in the European context, but our budget deficit would perhaps be suitable for a country where the economy would fall stoned and the corona crisis would have shut down the economy for months. Secondly, the deficit that the government is not planning to reduce. The budgetary strategy is extremely naughty and has no idea of what to do. Thus, in the view of this government, the deficit may continue to grow. The deficit means the loan and the loan is used very incorrectly. The coalition has been lying to us here in the Riigikogu, but also to the entire people for two and a half months, that loans are going to be invested. No, I'm not! The Estonian state's investments, apart from the European Union's resources, account for somewhat more than 20% compared to this deficit. Even in mathematics a dual should realize that 20% is not 100%, but five times less. Loan money goes to current expenditure, worse still: it goes to current fixed costs. This means that additional money will be needed next year, next year and so on. Where's the money coming from? Should we take another loan, another loan and another loan? It's a clear path to debt slavery. Or are we facing tax increases and cost cuts? We know what it is and what it means. They say the wise learns from the mistakes of others, the fool doesn't even learn from his own. The Estonian Government is not acting wisely. A country that has set an example in Europe is becoming a new Greece, perhaps as early as next year. And it's sad. I would also like to touch on expenditure in this budget, a little more than usual. The principle that is gaining more strength in budgeting is that money must be directed towards itself and its own. Let's see what happened with the extra budget resources that happened in the MES that happened in KredEx. A large amount of money was divided into very strange reasons, if any. A significant part of the money has landed in their own hands. The National Audit Office made very serious accusations. Has anything changed? No, it's not. As we know, the MES will continue to do the same. Stealing and wasting continues. The best example of dermatism has been a speck of public budget passion over the last week, so-called 'roof money', officially called regional investments, which are no longer regional or investment. We see that, without the slightest shame, the money is being channelled into its own political agenda. The official policy of the Estonian government has become abortion, as well as the undermining of the Estonian state by financing Putin's friends, as well as the distribution of money to lobby groups who are fighting against the policies set out in official national strategies. Is that reasonable and proper? All this is done by the coalition together and without shame. A few words from the European Union's resources, which were included in the budget in two lines between second and third readings. Yes, we do not know exactly how much money we will finally get and whether we can at all, because Poland and Hungary still cannot accept certain things. If there is no revenue, there will probably be no costs, but it would still be good to know where the money is to be channelled. This point has not been disclosed to us. For three months now, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I have been trying to get an explanation of what these funds are intended to be used for, what these plans are. We have received one A4 page in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which reveals much less than what can be found on the European Commission's website. So we'll be allowed a review again. And even though we had an agreement in the Commission that an overview would be made when the government had a plan of what and how to spend it, today in this remote area, it turned into a message in the speech of the chairman of the committee that we would get an overview when things were decided. I think inclusion would be very important. Money is always low, including public money. The use of public funds must be appropriate to the situation and the possibilities. Where is the real support for the ever-increasing health crisis and the inevitable economic crisis that will ensue? No, the state doesn't have to give money, it doesn't have to make tax incentives. The state must create an environment and, if necessary, help businesses and people to overcome difficult moments, but the state must also set an example. It is not in this budget. There is the distribution of tax and loan money to their own, dealing with completely non-relevant things, there are emptiness words. The problems will not be solved, they will be created, what has been achieved over the years will be destroyed and difficult for the future. That is why it is a very bad budget. This budget does not deserve support, it deserves to be rejected and replaced with a better one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U257	Thank you. On behalf of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U258	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Today's third-reading draft budget for 2021 is special. I believe that everyone agrees with the statement that there is a lot of uncertainty in the economic situation of the corona crisis and that it is difficult to make future forecasts. So far, Estonia has done better in the crisis than we might have feared. Optimism was added to the knowledge that once the normal rhythm of life returns, the economy will recover quickly, both in Estonia and elsewhere. This summer showed this when the rate of economic recovery even surprised and the spring forecasts for the future of the economy proved to be too pessimistic. In the third quarter, Estonia's gross domestic product fell by 1.9% compared to the same period last year. Yes, the fall hardly pleases anyone, but it is important to note that Estonia stands out well in comparison with the European countries. This shows that the additional budget drawn up by the government in spring and the various support measures have met their objective. But now from the state budget for 2021. Obviously, much attention has been paid to health care, with a total of more than EUR 1.76 billion planned. To control the spread of the coronavirus and learn to live with it, we will further strengthen our ability to detect infection, monitor the spread of infection, treat the affected, and improve the resilience of the health care system. We contribute more than 40 million euros to the fight against the Corona virus. One example is 177 additional isolation rooms across Estonia. This is an essential investment, as 70% of the hospital bed fund was in use this morning. In order to develop the Estonian health care system and improve the quality of health care, we have started negotiations with the European Commission to invest in hospitals across Estonia. Including EUR 380 million from European Union funds for the design and construction of Tallinn Hospital. In order to provide and modernise better medical care, we complete the establishment of Viljandi County Hospital and Health Centre, and the reconstruction and construction of the building of the psychiatric compulsory care service begins. Hiiumaa and Järvamaa hospitals receive support, emergency department renovation support is granted to North-Estonian Regional Hospital, Ida-Viru Central Hospital and Tartu University Hospital. To this end, almost EUR 65 million of European Union funds are requested. EUR 56 million are planned to be invested in the purchase of three new ambulance helicopters. The government is making efforts to get a new hospital building in Narva. In resolving the health crisis, we will also improve the overall response to the crisis. We have initiated the creation of the Estonian Stock Exchange Agency. The Agency shall pool the supplies of food, medicinal products, personal protective equipment and essential goods necessary to deal with the civil crisis and shall be responsible for ensuring that they are all available. For four years, it's worth $45 million. Good listeners! In the current difficult situation, it is also important to stand up for the elderly. Yesterday, the Riigikogu adopted a draft law according to which, as of April 2021, the retirement pension will increase by an average of 20 euros. People's pensions, which have remained the same for years, will rise by EUR 30, EUR 251 per month. Between 2010 and 2019, the average wage increased by almost 78%, while the average old-age pension grew by only 46.4%. In conclusion, I would like to say that next year, when the health crisis has eased and the vaccine arrives, it will be the year of relaunch and economic recovery, both in Estonia and throughout Europe. People and the economy need to be given additional confidence in the future and the opportunity to emerge from the crisis. As a result of the restructuring caused by the COVID-19 crisis, the Estonian economy will be better able to withstand possible future crises. With support, we can emerge faster from the crisis, and with additional funding we want to support long-term change and innovation in our economy. I dare say that Estonia has the best budget for Europe, and I call on the MPs to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U259	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U260	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I must say that I am, of course, pleased that thanks to the budgetary process in the Riigikogu, better reimbursement of sick days has finally arrived in the budget. Thanks for that, too, government union! For almost three months, the Social Democrats had to put pressure on the government union to do so, and now EUR 2.5 million have been allocated for this. At least it's in a fire budget. Looking at today's health picture, of course, I still find it deeply incomprehensible why we are only starting to compensate for the first days of illness from 1 January. I am convinced that our current rates of infection would be significantly less severe if the government had not been late for several months with this decision, just as with many other basic prevention activities. I would remind you that, apart from the Social Democrats, the Health Board said clearly on 19 September: people who work sick are behind the large number of people who are infected. There is no way to expect a person to stay home with signs of disease when it hits his income so that he can no longer cope. And so, on the one hand, our health care situation has deteriorated and, on the other hand, the effects of the crisis have been pushed on the shoulders of the more and more weaker. For behold, if a person has to pay for the first three sick days himself, and even if he has to pay for the first day himself, and all the following days are paid only 70% of his salary, then a person who earns 700 euros in a month will lose a whole 100 euros in two weeks and that is a very large part of his budget. So I have to quote again Tarmo Soiret, President of the Academy of Sciences, whom I also quoted at first reading of the state budget, but unfortunately this did not help much. We have to do it again. Tarmo Soomere said: "All crises have one thing: the rich get richer and the poor get poorer, but society must dampen this polarization to the maximum, so that the weight of the crisis does not lie on the shoulders of the poorer. " So that the weight of the crisis does not lie on the shoulders of the poorer ones! In my opinion, the government association has constantly claimed that they are trying to do so. However, when we look at the budget, we do not see it, and its characteristic example is the issue of sick days. Those people who have higher incomes, who have savings, are often able to work remotely. But those people who do easier jobs for lower pay don't have that chance. They will pay for this crisis in one way or another. And in the end, as a snowball effect, of course, it reaches the whole of society as a rate of infection in the country. What do we generally see in using a new word in a fire budget? We can see that funds are quickly found for large corporations and non-profit organizations representing the weather views of individual government departments, but for those in real trouble, money will be found with fingertips and fashion. An example of this is the tourism sector, which is suffering very seriously in this crisis. Unfortunately, the government union has not listened to our amendments to the state budget, which suggest that in a situation where people's incomes are falling, the income tax-free minimum could be increased to the Estonian minimum wage. This money, which would be more in the hands of those taxes, would help people to cope with difficult situations. In the same way, it would ensure that the average pension is exempt from income tax. Unfortunately, that is not the case at the moment. I have previously recognised the government for the planned extraordinary, albeit small, pension increase, and I will do so here too. Unfortunately, in addition to this, a number of very important factors are overlooked. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U261	There's going to be an extra time. Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U262	Like people who need the help of their own carers or different care services. Not to mention those people who need a nursing home. We know that the average pension does not help to cover the cost of a nursing home; unfortunately, several hundred euros are missing. In this situation, 16 euros is a great thing about a pension rise, but for people who need a nursing home, this is of little help. After all, at the same time, we read in the paper that several nursing homes, of course, raise their place fees and these increases are ten times as high as this EUR 16. These people should also be considered and given attention in the budget in a critical situation. Of course, I will not go over everything that has been said in previous budget discussions, but one thing I would certainly point out: the increase in the pay of teachers. These people will get a huge burden in this crisis. They've been facing a great deal of ignorance. This is also part of the criticism of government crisis prevention and preparedness. Schools had to decide for themselves how to behave in a difficult health situation. It took the Ministry of Education months to get advice and force to help. These people will inevitably bear a heavy burden during both hybrid and home-school education, and it is very wrong that no additional salaries have been found for them and that, in a four-year perspective, a signal has been sent to them that their salaries have been frozen for four years. You can't take hope away. The work of these people must be valued and this clear message should also be given in this budget. Of course, I am not going to talk about the spread of the green and digital revolution in this context at all. Finally, the message that this budget sends to society in the midst of a sharp health crisis. What's the message? Unfortunately, this message is EUR 2 million for a referendum, which is only needed to satisfy the ambitions of one party and comes at the expense of the rest of society, and EUR 171000 for generous funding of the anti-abortion NGO. Like these are the most important things right now! Sad, very sad. And that is why the Social Democrats are voting against this budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U263	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U264	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, We have just learned that with EUR 171000 it would be possible to save the entire Estonian tourism sector from the ultimate destruction and collapse. Thank you for giving us this message! We will certainly look at the government's reserves, and maybe that's where we will find EUR 170000 to get the tourism sector out of the crisis. Message received. But now a little more seriously. Look, this is a different budget than the one that has been used to doing in Estonia over long and long years. I would take the lead here from my mother's words, but he was a very good manager with my father, who was also a very good manager, who always loved to say: let the ruble go, room ten come. And that's exactly what it is. All this crying about how the budget has been reduced, how the budget covers this second and third running expenditure, and so on... Sorry, we're the leaders of this country, we're not economists, accountants. We look to the future and we command and use money to pave the way for the future so that this future is sustainable. Not the way it has been over long and long years, where there have been dogmas, such as the dogma of budgetary balance, the dogma, that capital has no country, that money does, and what foolishness we have all heard over the years. All of this has proved fatal to the Estonian state, to the Estonian employee, to the Estonian taxpayer, to the Estonian economy. What tremendous effort has our farmer had to make to overcome decisions made in the 1990's in the interests of lies, shortsighted ones, and strangers? Very, very hard work has been done for this. And we can give other examples. For example, selling Estonian ships for a sandwich price, selling Estonian gold stock for a sandwich price, all of this has taken place at the expense of our Estonian people, based on dogmas that do not fit in any real life. This government and this budget are not based on dogmas. It looks creatively at the opportunities of the state, the needs of the state and the needs of the people, and takes decisions based on the centre of gravity calculated on the basis of the components of these needs, which have given the budget a number of lines of expenditure, as well as revenue. So, we heard a long, long cry-breath here, tearing tears. We have heard that the government has not been adequate in response, among other things, to the corona crisis. I dare deny these accusations and all these claims with a little finger on my left hand. They're not right! If you do not consider me an authority, and I am sure that you do not regard me as an authority, especially on the opposition side, because you cannot regard me as an authority, even though I am an authority, please read what has been said and thought by Indrek Neivelt, which has been said and believed by many other economic analysts. Compare indicators internationally! Then you will understand that the government has made difficult decisions, but has made these decisions in a very prudent way, looked at the possibilities and made decisions at least in the current state at best. Can I have an extension, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U265	We're gonna get a prolongation. Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U266	And all these cries because 2 million have been spent somewhere or a few hundred thousand have been spent, which is like arguing or corrupting... Well, they don't change the picture! They do not change absolutely the picture that the government has made prospective investment decisions in the budget. There was a previous speaker who asked, but where are the investments? I can tell you where these investments are. I went to the Finance Committee as Minister for the Interior, and there was the same person who said that no investments were made or made. I was talking about what the Ministry of the Interior has invested and what still needs to be used as investments. And I am absolutely sure that all the other ministers' presentations also showed where we are going with the money. I can tell you from the Home Office that we're buying a guard ship. We order it from the builder of Saaremaa, the money remains in Estonia. We're buying choppers. Right now, one chopper is always busy on medical flights, we're buying more choppers, so we've got chopper supplies. We're gonna train an additional team and build chopper bases. We do a lot! Autumn had a big discussion about defense costs. Thanks to this discussion, the state acquires coastal defence capabilities. These are all investments, these are all steps that have not been, or have not been, wanted or encouraged to take in the last decade and a half. Of course, the Estonian state will never be finished. Of course, there is not enough money in this budget to pave all the bottlenecks. But we're trying. We do what we do, we do what we can, we do what we consider to be the most important at this point in time within the limits of the funds given. And I think that all of this deserves not only whining criticism, but rather co-thinking and talking about both the opposition and the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U267	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U268	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, No matter which state budget here has been adopted, the opposition has been made, regardless of which parties are sitting there, criticizes and the coalition praises to heaven. We are honest, no matter how good the state budget is recommended in this Chamber, there will never be enough money to satisfy everyone's wishes and resolve their concerns. But let's look once at the last period and at this bill, next year's state budget! We're having a health crisis. If we look at the budget, we can see very clearly how to prevent this health crisis. We can make criticism here on the one hand or on the other, but nearly 146 million of the state budget will go to the sickness fund to be prepared to fight against coronavir. We made a decision to reimburse the sick days in four months of the following year from the second day. On the one hand, there are discussions and struggles, on the other hand, it can be said that the opposition has kept the subject up, but at the same time it cannot be said that the coalition would not have done so. Discussions and decisions need to be made, and money figures need to be looked at. And fortunately, that decision has been made today. We are looking at the budget and we are seeing very large investments in health care, in hospital repair, so that regional hospitals and major hospitals are prepared to treat our people. We're talking defense. During the Republic of Estonia, there has never been a budget of nearly 2.3% of GDP for defence expenditure. This is a very clear message that this coalition considers it important to support the Fatherland's proposal to maintain high defence costs and defence capabilities. Let's talk about pensions. I remember how the opposition asked about pensions and everything like that. I would remind you that the increase in pensions for next year is on the one hand an increase in base pension and, on the other hand, an increase in so-called maternity pension, which is, rightly speaking, an increase in parental pension. I also recall that there were two political parties in power from 2014 to 2015 who are today in opposition. You pushed those mothers who are our mothers to the third annual coefficient until 2018. Different coalitions have different visions, different perceptions and different desires. It is not always necessary to say that one is better or worse, you must always look in the mirror and see there what has been done in its own time and what is being done now. And, of course, every budget is the face of a coalition. Before the Riigikogu elections, most parties, except one, also signed up to increased funding for science. Next year, 1% of GDP will be allocated to research funding for the first time. This means that EUR 56 million will be added from the budget. We hope that the funding of science will go to economic recovery... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U269	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U270	... and for growth, that it will not just be spent in the same way, but we know that in years' time, this research money will be spent in order for the economy to grow and we will be able to invest more in our goodwill and necessary investments. Of course, it is also very important to say that next year will be an exceptional year in the sense that the tax burden will fall from 33.8% of GDP to 32.7% of GDP. These are opportunities and understandings. When we talk about this year and about the virus and about the decline in economic growth in all developed countries, we are honest: because we reacted quickly in the spring, we adopted an additional budget, we have been through this crisis very well compared to the neighbouring countries. And I believe that next year's budget will also support our success in the crisis next year. And when you look at agriculture, when the chairman of the committee asked where the money was, it's in this year's budget. In this sense too, I think the Riigikogu has acted quickly and decisively this year that it has at some point found additional resources in the budget for this year. We also gave the government more capacity, if necessary, in the budget for next year. The Fatherland Party feels that this budget is very much the face of the Fatherland and the face of the coalition, and supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U271	The speeches have been made on behalf of the political groups. I consider the negotiations to be over. Am I interrupting someone? I hope I'm not interrupting any conversations on this remote. However, the next step is the revision of the amendments and we will begin the examination of the amendments. The first amendment is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the lead committee has proposed that it be fully taken into account. The second amendment, from the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, has been fully taken into account by the lead committee. The third amendment from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee, has taken full account of this. Echo Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U272	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on so that everyone can show whether they support or do not support the provision of money to anti-abortion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U273	Okay. Let us put the third amendment to the vote. Let's get everyone in the hall, just in case. A procedural question from Mr. Pohlak? [[They're asking for a break in the hall.]] Break three minutes! Yes, Indrek Saar, please! A microphone, please, I can't hear you! Indrek Saar, you can't take the floor during the intermission. And I was told on the sidelines that this is a controversial question, that it can't be opposed. So, break. V a h e a g
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U274	Okay, now the break's over. I am about to announce the vote, and now I can't take the floor. The third amendment proposed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee, has proposed that it be fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. It was put to the vote at the request of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U275	54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this amendment, against 44. This amendment was not rejected. The fourth amendment from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party has been rejected by the commission and the proposal is not to be voted in accordance with § 120 (5) of the Rules of Procedure Act. The fifth amendment to the Group of the Reform Party, the position of the lead committee, is not to take this into account and this proposal is also not to be voted on. The sixth amendment, from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee and the proposal is not to be voted on. The seventh amendment, from the Group of the Reform Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee and the proposal is not to be voted on. The eighth amendment, from the Group of the Reform Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee and the proposal is not to be voted on. The ninth amendment, from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The tenth amendment, from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 11, from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the commission has rejected this and the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 12, from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the commission has rejected this and the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 13, from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the Steering Committee has disregarded this. The proposal is not subject to voting in accordance with § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. Amendment 14 from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the commission has ignored this. The proposal shall not be subject to a vote. And the last amendment, Amendment 15 from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. We have examined the amendments and we have the Commission's proposal for a final vote on the draft 254. Is everyone here or are we calling? Well, so festive budget vote, I'll still give you two minutes, give you a chance to gather in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft National Budget Act 2021 initiated by the Government of the Republic, number 254. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U276	55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, against 44. The draft state budget has been passed as a law! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U277	The next item is the draft law amending the Financial Management Act and the Maritime Safety Act, initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, by number 282. The third reading of this draft is on the agenda. Do the representatives of the political groups want to make speeches? There's no call request. The commission has then proposed a final vote of 282 on this draft. Is that what I'm gonna call, or can we go to the vote? We can go to the vote. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Financial Management Act and the Law amending the Law on Safety at Sea 282 of the Local Government Unit initiated by the Monetary Commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U278	92 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Bill 282 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U279	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Notarial Law and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups want to make speeches? There is no wish to negotiate. We have the commission's proposal for a final vote on the draft 208. Do they want a call or can we go to the vote? Let's vote? Then let's vote. I will put to the final vote a draft law amending the Notarial Law and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 200. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U280	94 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U281	The fourth item is the draft law on health and safety at work initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of other laws 257. Representatives of the political groups will take the floor. Riina Sikkut, on behalf of the Socialist Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U282	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, The virus doesn't fall in love. So the sick days we've been discussing over the last few weeks, and all this chronology, it's worth going over today. It is understandable that spring was startled that there was ignorance, quick decision-making and experimentation. In May, the government decided, exceptionally, to compensate for the first three days of sickness during an emergency. The emergency was over, the virus stopped spreading. Summer gave us a breather to prepare for a new wave of infection, what's going on right now. I heard the most concern during the summer that distance learning would continue in the autumn, this news came today, and that the first days of illness would not be reimbursed. At the end of the summer, the government began discussing compensation for the first days of sickness. Started discussing. And now chronology from the media. On August 28, the news came that the government could discuss the payment of the sick list from the first day of illness. 2 September: the government will discuss the change in compensation for sick days. On 15 September, the government will continue to argue about the early reimbursement of the sick list. And the news story begins with the government for several weeks already discussing bringing the beginning of the reimbursement of sick leave earlier, but so far without success. On 17 September, the Group of the Social Democratic Party submitted a draft to compensate for the first days of sickness, as the government's discussions were not followed by a decision. Two days later, i.e. two days after the bill was submitted, on September 19, we can read the report from the Health Board that people who work sick are responsible for the large number of people who are infected. It'll be October. On 7 October, the Health Board states that teachers who work sick are currently concerned. According to the Health Board, the majority of the infected children have received the disease from a school where teachers with symptoms have worked. Occupational infection is a major concern, and the main area of pain, according to the Health Board, is still the fact that symptoms are at work rather than staying at home. On 19 October, Tartu Postimees states how infection was added to Jõgevamaa through working contact. Following the Southern Regional Department, Võru has 24 jobs and 20 jobs in Jõgeva County. On October 27th, we will read how the workplaces in Tallinn are burning in the production companies. The health authority points out that the problem is not for those who are symptomatic, but for those who are completely affected by the symptoms of the disease. Small workstations are created, a circle of family contacts is formed from there, and this infection has now grown in Tallinn. A day later, we read that the state and employers moved forward with the reimbursement of sick leave. A step forward was taken, but this step did not lead to a decision. The Minister of Social Affairs said that compensation for the first days of illness would certainly help to stay at home and not go to work in case of illness and thereby prevent the virus. When I first read the draft Act 244 amending the Social Tax Act and the Law on Health and Safety at Work submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group, which took place only on 18 November, I was on the vertex here, I was able to say that the last 14 days' morbidity rate per 100000 people was 223. At the time, it was higher than ever. On Monday, I was sadly able to say an even higher number, and today the last 14 days of infection per 100,000 people are already 415, with 264 patients in the hospital. On 18 November, the draft reimbursement of sick days was rejected at first reading. The reason from Tõnis Möldr, the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, was that there was still a need to discuss. He is personally in favour of finding a measure that is slightly longer than one year, no two years. It should be such a long-standing thing because, as we know, many scientists and professors have said that we will live with this disease. So now we know that this long-term measure, which has been discussed for a long time, has been an opportunity to be reimbursed for four months from the second day of sickness. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U283	Extra time, please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U284	The Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee replied to Mr Randpere, saying that there was a need to take time off, in short, but at least a decision must be taken that is long-term and will also survive other viral waves and economic difficulties. At this second reading of the state budget on 18 November, the Social Democratic Party Group's amendment to compensate for the first days of sickness was not supported. On 19 November, the Social Democratic Party's proposal for a government decision to decide that if our solution does not fit, decide by 1 December how you will begin to compensate for the first days of illness, because there is a need. We've been hearing all autumn how job spots are counted. By the way, schools, nursing homes, prisons and hospitals are actually jobs. So how do we have so many of these workplaces? We know you have to stay home with the first symptoms. But I'm not tired of repeating: staying home from work means losing a man's income. A week's illness leads to a minimum wage of nearly 100 euros from the maid. It cannot be assumed that a person stays at home with a slightly rough throat or nose, stays at home for the sake of the health of all of us, and puts his or her livelihood at risk. It is therefore necessary to choose whether to reward sick days more generously so that the problems of coping do not force the sick to work, or to save costs and risk the infected to work. We know what choice the government has made. In today's Question Time, we heard from the Minister of Finance, who was this time in the Prime Minister's role: "Estonia has handled the corona crisis perfectly, and I would like both the opposition and the public to commend us for this... " The crisis manager wants public praise and gratitude in the midst of the crisis. Where is the service of the state? The government must serve the country in a crisis, keep people healthy, avoid deaths, but no public service in this Chamber was heard today. The members of the government want praise for what they have already done. And we're not through with the crisis. The Minister of Finance stated: "If the situation has called for this, we have taken the next steps. " This is the same principle that we heard from his father last week that decisions are made that have so-called positive resonance in society. Perhaps the government will make decisions when the public demands and when the public wants restrictions themselves. This ignores the fact that has been multiplied since spring: the logic of the spread and development of the virus is that, if we decide anything today, the virus will be locked down by the next two weeks anyway with its development. We won't be able to change the next two weeks. We can influence what we can, after that. Even the Minister of Finance stated that he did not question the fact that compensation for sick days as early as possible, from day one to day two, would undoubtedly contribute to some extent to the fact that people with signs of disease are not coming to work. So the measure actually works, the Minister of Finance also states that it works. But somehow that decision was not made and the sick days from the second day will not be reimbursed until 1 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U285	Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U286	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U287	Thank you. Tõnis Mölder on behalf of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U288	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last time, on Monday, when I introduced this bill at second reading, I said that we would soon come to this hall with the subject of quarantine leaves. I just wanted to tell you so much that, in the meantime, we really discussed this issue in the Commission, there were also meetings between employers, trade unions and family doctors. We won't have any changes in quarantine papers in the near future. In the case of quarantine leaves, they go back to the same implementation practice as in the spring, i.e. they are treated as sick leave. And just as in the case of sick leave, people in close contact do not receive quarantine leaves, but sick leaves. The same is the case where the first day is the responsibility of the person, the second to the fifth day is compensated by the employer and the health insurance fund, and that percentage is 70. Just let it be written off from this remote for information to all good colleagues. I sincerely hope that the Ministry will come up next year with a more comprehensive solution to all this issue, but here, indeed, this change in practice has been introduced. I am pleased that a quick and operational solution has been found without amending the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U289	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U290	Thank you. As I said at second reading on Monday when I presented this draft and answered one question, the different countries are indeed introducing different measures and are doing different restrictions. But one thing that's uniform is that the curve is going in one direction, unfortunately. So, unfortunately, no one knows which measures work better than others, or what effects one or the other of a specific restriction, or even the so-called relaxation or amendment of the law, so far. And I very much support that we will make this measure temporary and affordable. And if necessary, we can extend it here. So this understanding is the same for all of us, as it turned out on Monday at second reading. Of course, we all want people with no less symptoms not to go to work. And this bill will certainly contribute very much to this. The question is, to what extent this measure should be taken, for how long and at whose expense. Today, the first day is still the employee's day, from the second to the fifth day it remains the employer's day, and from the sixth day on, all taxpayers will be transferred through the sickness fund. I think if we put extra burdens on it, it must be understandable to all of us. This money is not coming from anywhere inside the wall, and we must take these measures in such a way that it is as bad as possible for our economy. This draft will in any case take reasonable steps in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U291	Thank you very much. There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. I consider the negotiations to be concluded and we are preparing for the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law on health and safety at work initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws by number 257. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U292	93 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Bill 257 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U293	We will look at the next item, the fifth in number, in order to prevent tax base erosion and profit shifting initiated by the Government of the Republic, with the number 286 of the draft law amending the Act on ratification of the multilateral convention on the implementation of measures relating to tax treaties. Let's start with the second reading. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U294	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, In order to prevent tax base erosion and profit shifting, the Monetary Commission discussed the draft law amending the Act on the ratification of the Multilateral Convention on the Implementation of a measure relating to tax treaties for a second reading at its meeting on 24 November and 3 December. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 30 November Riigikogu members, political groups and other committees did not propose amendments to the draft. The draft introduced linguistic and normative specifications. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday, 9 December including the second reading to be closed and to hold a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U295	Thank you very much, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. Is there a wish to open negotiations? There is no wish to participate in the negotiations. No amendments were tabled to this draft; the lead committee has proposed a final vote on the draft 286. Let's get everybody in the hall. [[It's a saalikutsung.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the law on the ratification of the Multilateral Convention on Tax Treaties to prevent tax base erosion and profit shifting initiated by the Government of the Republic by number 286. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U296	82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Bill 286 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U297	The sixth item is the (renewed) draft Act 258 of the Council of Europe Convention on co-production in film initiated by the Government of the Republic. Let us begin by reading this second reading and ask Marko Šorini, member of the Committee on Culture, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U298	Dear Vice-Chairman, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will be before you twice with this bill. This is a ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on co-production in the field of film. It was at first reading on 28 October. At that time, there was one question that was asked by Signe Kivi, a member of the esteemed Committee on Culture, namely how many co-production films there are recently, where we can talk about Estonia's partnership. The Minister of Culture replied to Signe Kivi and Signe gladly shared this information with colleagues. During 2019 and 2020, 11 films have been produced under the leadership of Estonia and 18 films have been produced where Estonia is a minority partner. Let it be answered, too. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 11 November. The Commission Secretariat also asked the Estonian Film Institute, the Estonian Film Industry Cluster, the Film Producers' Association and the National Producer Association for its opinion on the draft, and they did not have any amendments. Consequently, the Committee on Culture, discussing this at its meeting, proposed that a draft be submitted to the large hall today. It was decided that I would be the rapporteur, and the Commission's proposal, which reached a consensus, was that a second reading should be held today, as should the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U299	Thank you very much. Tarmo Kruusimäe, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U300	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Did the translation of the original language leave no room for interpretation for Estonia? After all, the word "violence" is perceived in many different ways. For some, even the obligation to wear a mask is violence. And then we can say that there should be no co-financing. But the simplest part of the question is: does this mean that such action films no longer have the hope of finding co-financing and no more war movies?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U301	Thank you! I would like to draw attention to a number of aspects, however, to the fact that these are co-production films, but in the case of one of the donors, the violent films you mentioned may be made. But I guess this is the case with § 5 on this, I think your penguin was asking about it the last time, and then I said that it is probably important to consider and distinguish between violent movies and movies that call for violence. However, according to this section, I believe that movies calling for violence are out of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U302	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U303	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You said now some numbers that gave you a sense of how many such movies were produced, so like on the quantum side, we found out. But when you look at quality, have any of these films been awarded a prize or have some of them been a very good movie? Can you say that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U304	Thank you for the question and, of course, thank you for your interest in Estonian culture. In this answer, there was also a list of these films, and in some cases there was eye to eye, which has also been found more widely in the media. Here you can mention even "O2" which is a film taken by Estonia, where Estonia is a minority partner, and the last time you have passed through the media is "Goodbye, USSR," which has also been regarded as a good film. But whether any of them were prized, this issue was not discussed in the Commission and was not discussed in the answer. If it's of real interest, I think we could ask for it from the Ministry of Culture. I can't answer that question right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U305	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U306	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The question is a little specific, but maybe there was something about it in the Commission. This concerns the table on page 11, where there are weight points, the director 4, the writer 1 and the composer 1 respectively. Was there any reason why such a difference in categories?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U307	The correct answer, or rather how I can respond, is this: it did not create an additional debate in the Commission. So that's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U308	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations on this subject? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to this draft were tabled. The commission has proposed a final vote of 258 on the draft. Honourable colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act 258 on the (renewed) ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Coproduction in Films, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U309	71 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of adopting this draft, and there were no votes against or abstentions. Draft 258 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U310	The seventh item is the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic to develop a hydrogen strategy" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party 279. Let us begin with its first reading and ask Annely Akkermann, a member of the Riigikogu, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U311	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Estonia needs a hydrogen strategy. Today, I will present to you a draft which will propose to the Government of the Republic to develop a national hydrogen strategy to exploit the potential of hydrogen technology to reduce carbon emissions and decarbonise the economy. The hydrogen strategy provides the basis for integrating hydrogen technology into the national climate documents "Basic climate policy for 2050" and "Estonia's National Energy and Climate Plan for 2030." Three reasons why Estonia needs its national hydrogen strategy are as follows: Firstly, according to Academician Enn Lust, hydrogen technology is considered to be a potential fourth scientific and technical revolution. It makes no sense for Estonia to lag behind. When politicians are often asked what your big story or goal is, the development of hydrogen technology and the hydrogen economy in Estonia could be one of them. Secondly, the hydrogen strategy creates a link between the European Union's climate and energy policy documents and Estonia's corresponding documents. It is wise for Estonia to draw up a strategy for hydrogen, i.e. a plan to bring knowledge and money into Estonian science and economy throughout the European Union. Thirdly, the hydrogen strategy formulates common understandings, objectives, roadmaps and cooperation agreements between the various parties, between the state, local authorities, businesses, education, science and others, and allows the parties to plan resources, including state allocations, in the budgetary strategy. Here is a brief overview of the decisions that have given a new impetus to the development of hydrogen technology. It was precisely a new impetus because the possibilities of using hydrogen as an energy source were discovered by Wilhelm Ostwald, the later Nobel Prize winner who worked at the University of Tartu at the end of the 19th century. Today's world is fighting global warming. Oil, gas, wood, peat, coal and oil shale are easily ignited by the carbon they contain, making them a relatively easy source of energy. The growth of a large carbon economy is considered to be the cause of global warming, and countries around the world have started to look for ways to halt global warming, so that the warming rate is less than two degrees. The European Union wants to take the lead and be the first climate-neutral continent by 2050. With the conclusion of the Paris climate agreement in 2015, 195 countries agreed to promote low greenhouse gas emission development and aim to strike a balance between anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions sources and removals by the second half of the century. With the conclusion of the Paris climate agreement, the development of the hydrogen economy at national level was a new impetus. In fact, as early as 2002, the European Union set up a high-level working group with 19 representatives from different fields: research institutions, industry, the public sector and end-users. The Estonian hydrogen association was formed in March 2016. The Hydrogen Initiative, the Linz Agreement, was signed by many European Union companies in September 2018. Estonia has also joined. The creation of a hydrogen initiative also pushed for the need to reduce carbon emissions and decarbonise the economy. In 2018, the world's first hydrogen strategy "Japan's hydrogen strategy and its economic and geopolitical implications" was drawn up. I stress the last part of the sentence, and the hydrogen strategy also has geopolitical implications for maintaining energy security. In 2017 and 2018, the international HyLaw project identified regulatory barriers to hydrogen technology development. Estonia did not participate; of our neighbours, Sweden, Finland and Latvia participated in the project. Estonian laws are analysed in the context of the current project. Namely, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of the Environment have commissioned a study from the Stockholm Environmental Institute Tallinn Centre SA, the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics and CIVITA Eesti AS to deploy hydrogen resources. This study should be completed in April 2021 and is methodologically structured into three work projects: firstly, identifying the potential for hydrogen production, distribution and consumption; secondly, analysing pilot projects; thirdly, possible and necessary measures and activities in developing the hydrogen economy in Estonia. Potential uses of hydrogen are also analysed in Estonia in transport, industry, heating, export of buildings and other special cases such as isolated areas or debug of power cuts. Sea and terrestrial wind farms, solar parks, biogas plants and cogeneration plants are analysed as pilot projects. The results of the HyLaw project will be reviewed, i.e. what legislative barriers have been found in 26 countries participating in the project. As a result, there should be an understanding of the need to adapt Estonian laws. It's a job on our desk. The hydrogen strategies of other countries and the strategies of the European Union and Estonia in their respective fields will also be reviewed. The results of the above study are expected to provide a good basis for a hydrogen strategy. Basic research gives us the knowledge that could be and sensible in Estonia to do for the development of the hydrogen economy. The hydrogen strategy is a plan that we will make next year, next five years, 15 years and 2050. It's a long plan. The hydrogen strategy is an agreed division of responsibilities between the parties, the undertakings, the state and others. On the basis of the hydrogen strategy, resources are planned in the state budget, in the country's applications for EU funding and in the development budgets of companies. From the hydrogen strategy, the parties will know what they expect from each other and when. Will the state decide to use hydrogen in transport, for example, with plans, development plans, budgets and staff? If so, local authorities will be able to tender for the deployment of hydrogen-powered buses. If so, fuel dealers can invest in filling stations. If so, bus and/or coach undertakings and road transport companies can start investing in hydrogen-powered machinery. If so, private individuals can acquire hydrogen cars and the two hydrogen cars currently available in Estonia should not be refueling in Riga or Helsinki. If so, energy producers can start investing in hydrogen production. Yesterday, Hando Sutter, Chairman of the Board of Eesti Energia, visited the Economic Commission. I asked him whether Eesti Energia saw the hydrogen economy in its future business directions. He replied that if demand developed, Eesti Energia would also produce hydrogen. The aim of the hydrogen strategy is to combine responses to all these questions in a single national document. Hydrogen technology is a whole bunch of industrial solutions. The hydrogen economy has the potential to reach the most diverse sectors of the economy: transport, industry and utilities. Hydrogen transitions go beyond climate and energy policy. Estonia therefore needs a separate national hydrogen strategy. Another hydrogen project is underway in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications: a measure for piloting the complete hydrogen chain, aimed at supporting the development and implementation of the complete chains of green hydrogen in Estonia. The project must end on 20 November 2024 and be planned at 30 million, of which five million from the sale of allowances and five million from the recovery fund. On 23 November, including the draft in question, Estonia's views on communications from the European Commission were discussed together in the Committee on Economic Affairs. These were the achievement of a climate-neutral economy, an integrated energy system for a climate-neutral Europe and a climate-neutral European hydrogen strategy. At the Commission's joint session, Jaanus Uiga said that the strategy paper would not produce results if there was no money, but fortunately the Ministry had found money for pilot projects, and added that perhaps some kind of road map would also be drawn up during the work. It's true, we need money. The development document can be called both a strategy and a roadmap, as long as it is a broad-based cooperation agreement between market participants. As long as the document has a vision and a mission. As long as the document is inspiring and reliable. Ladies and gentlemen, Pilot project is a method of gaining good experience. They are made to test applications, to detect errors and to repeat them more effectively later. In order to get the economy going, it is entirely in place as a single measure, but it is still insufficient on its own. With the help of the hydrogen strategy, other market participants, such as Eesti Energia, Elering, bus companies and others, could plan their investments in sync and, in macroeconomic terms, multiply investment in the hydrogen economy of the country. The hydrogen strategy can create synergies between different sectors, companies and sectors, which can really get the Estonian hydrogen economy going. Let it be said that the city of Keila is already acquiring the city's hydrogen vision. It will take a completely different amount than EUR 30 million over four years to bring about change in the field of energy. Yesterday, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the issue of the oil plant of Eesti Energia, the cost of which is 125 million. For rail electrification, nearly 200 million public funds will be planned in the coming years. The investment needed to launch the hydrogen economy should, in my opinion, be greater than the current 30 million orders, but this could be predicted in the process of developing a hydrogen strategy, as well as how to put together the necessary investment by mobilising funds from businesses and the European Union. By the way, investors are looking for productivity for their money in green companies that use the environment sustainably. LHV has placed green funds on the market, which, among other things, have invested Estonian pension money in the shares of both the US hydrogen producer Plug Power and the Danish wind energy company Vestas Wind Systems. This also shows the interest of Estonian investors in placing their money in the green economy, reducing carbon emissions, avoiding climate warming and, among other things, in hydrogen technology. It is eloquent that the total number of 338 people took part on the spot and through the light blue screen on the hydrogen day of the Riigikogu. I have not been able to attend another Riigikogu conference for six years, which would have been so crowded. The organisation of the Development Monitoring Centre was excellent. When I introduced the draft in the Committee on Economic Affairs, I said that Estonia has been a few years behind in developing its hydrogen economy, and this is a very high lag, half distance, compared to the five-year scale since 2015. Estonia likes to compare itself with its neighbours. Our neighbors are busy. In Latvia, the hydrogen filling station has been running since 2018 and the state plans to purchase another 100 buses for ten hydrogen buses. Sweden hopes to complete its hydrogen strategy by the end of this year. The Polish Ministry of Climate Change hopes that the hydrogen strategy will also be completed by the end of the year. The Lithuanians have a national platform to accelerate the deployment of hydrogen technology. Unfortunately, we in Estonia are still awaiting the launch of the Applied Research Centre. Just now, Finland presented a national hydrogen road map, a compact 50-page document, which could be a very good example for Estonia. The Roadmap summarises this: " Hydrogen certainly offers Finland great opportunities to create new business models across the hydrogen value chain. Finally, every road starts with the first step. Preferably from the very beginning, you might know where to go and how to get there most effectively. That's what our road map is for. " This is the end of the quote from the Finnish hydrogen strategy summary. In June 2020, Germany presented its national strategy for hydrogen, which includes 38 measures, with EUR 7 billion allocated to it, plus EUR 2 billion for international cooperation. There are 18 countries in the world with a hydrogen strategy or roadmap, but their gross domestic product represents 70% of global production. 92 countries are members of the hydrogen council. Given that in many countries a hydrogen strategy is under way, it can be said with certainty that Estonia is among the last fifth in the world to plan the hydrogen economy, and we should take a decision today to start immediately. In July 2020, the European Commission presented a European strategy for the integration of energy systems and the transition to green energy. The implementation of this strategy is among Kadri Samson's tasks. Kadri Simson introduced the strategy on the hydrogen day of the Riigikogu and expressed the opinion that Estonia could benefit from its national hydrogen strategy. The introduction of hydrogen technology is essential both for combating climate change and for creating a healthy living environment for people, as ambient air pollution is one of the causes of the spread of cancers that have taken on the global pandemic dimension. Heating elements tend to clean the air. This is why huge emphasis is placed on the introduction of public transport into hydrogen. Today, over 3400 such buses and over 30,000 cars travel around the world. As of this year, there are 451 hydrogen filling stations and 54 new filling stations in the planning phase. The day before yesterday, Andi Hektor, in the opinion column of Postimees, wrote: "The risk of new technologies and innovations from officials and politicians in general is a concern. Hydrogen energy is a good example. In Estonia, things started to move quietly only when the EU put a very robust hydrogen strategy on the table. "Andi Hector says that too often the sentence "We are not yet rich enough to introduce this new technology" is heard in Estonia. I would paraphrase this saying: "We are not rich enough to avoid and secure all risks, to be afraid in advance. " We need to take a prudent risk and be quick and bold to introduce new solutions. Finally, I would like to express my thanks for inspiring the support group of the Riigikogu, organising the hydrogen day, preparing this draft and the presentation for Academician Enn Lust, Dr Tiit Kallaste and Ain Laidoja from the hydrogen association. You have kept us informed of the latest developments in science and practical applications. I would also like to thank Enn Õunpuu for its contribution to Estonian hydrogen technology, the manager of Elcogen, the company who brought the innovation prize to Estonia last year from the European Enterprise Awards competition, who has allowed hydrogen enthusiasts in the Riigikogu to touch the highest power density and the most energy efficient fuel elements in Europe in their factory. I would also like to thank Ivar Kruusenberg from PowerUp Energy Technologies, who brought his equipment to the hydrogen day of the Riigikogu, where interested people could charge their phone with the electricity produced from hydrogen. I want to thank Erik Kuus for bringing the hydrogen truck to hydrogen day. Thanks to you, hydrogen technology still exists in Estonia, it works, charges and moves. You and many others have taught, developed and promoted hydrogen technology in Estonia tirelessly. I wish you had the fun and the strength for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition and opposition! Hydrogen technology is politically neutral. We just adopted four draft laws, only one of them caused political disagreements, and three went out of this hall with unanimous support. The launch of a hydrogen strategy could also be one that would receive support from both the coalition and the opposition. Please start working quickly on strategic planning of the Estonian hydrogen economy and please support the task of the Government of the Republic to prepare a hydrogen strategy. Thank you in advance!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U312	Thank you very much. You have questions. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U313	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question comes as inspired by sport. You mentioned in your report that we are, say, behind the world by taking hydrogen for a few years. If we make the right decision today, we take the right step, do we have a chance to follow the world in order to be at the forefront?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U314	Yeah, sure. If we start drawing up a hydrogen strategy today, I think in a year's time we can confirm it in the Riigikogu. And then we've taken a long step. And I actually listed companies in Estonia that are already working on the development of hydrogen technology today, doing so at a very high level, are in international competition. Among the 338 people who participated in the hydrogen day organised by the Monitoring Centre for Development, there were also a large number of entrepreneurs waiting for the country's messages and such a coordinated plan. Eesti Energia said that if demand arises, Eesti Energia will offer hydrogen, there are gas stations that want to transform their gas stations into energy chains and want to bring in the possibility of refueling more hydrogen. In fact, the hydrogen economy is an economy, and it is a business, and businesses still have this heavy end in implementing it. Businesses are currently looking at the country and waiting. Even during the preparation of this report, entrepreneurs who are following our agenda sent me a great deal of statistical material and advice to include in the report. The desire for cooperation is very strong; I have not felt this desire for cooperation in the Riigikogu in the past six years.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U315	Now one comment before I give the floor to Mr Ossinovski. Each member of the Riigikogu has one oral question for each of the rapporteurs. Then you know your questions to plan. Now the next one is Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U316	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In the company of environmental technology, views are divided into two parts: whether the future is electricity or hydrogen. I'm more of an electric than a hydrogen religion, but it's not that important here. Of course, it will probably be possible to produce green hydrogen from the surplus of green energy in the future, which is as good as currently produced. Today, most of the hydrogen produced and used comes from fossil fuels, cannot be called green. This is likely to be possible in the future. But let's take the situation in Estonia now. Norway's current average specific emissions of electricity produced are 43 grams per kilowatt-hour; Estonia's 1153. In the next decade, however, would it not make sense to invest all this money in what is being put into the oil shale oil plant in order to make this green jump in energy? And then if there's money left over, then really Hando Sutter and many others, I believe, could start producing green hydrogen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U317	Thank you. I'm going to be a little more specific. Hydrogen itself is not such a ready form of energy, but is actually an energy carrier. Therefore, there is no choice of either electricity or hydrogen. It's not like a dual, double choice. Eesti Energia is known to have very great intentions in producing wind energy. Wind energy, however, depends very much on the natural environment, the weather, because once there is wind and then there is no, sometimes there are peaks. And that's where the hydrogen comes in. At these peak load moments, when windmills produce more electricity than can be set on the grid, hydrogen can be electrolyzed by this electricity and then stored in hydrogen. However, the use of hydrogen in transport is considered to be most effective in modern applications: in heavy transport, heavy goods vehicles and regular buses, as well as in urban freight transport and in port. I don't know how to look at electricity and hydrogen apart from each other in this sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U318	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U319	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, my dear waitress, for a very thorough and substantive report. By listening to this and having taken an interest in hydrogen in the past, I see no good reason why Estonia cannot do this strategy or at least set goals and goals. Life will show you how they can be put into practice. My question: do you know any good reason why Estonia should not make such a strategy? And the other half of the question. The advantage of hydrogen as an energy carrier in storing energy you mentioned in answering Mr Ossinovski's question, but perhaps you will mention some other advantages as to why this hydrogen as an energy carrier is good.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U320	The first question is very easy to answer. Indeed, I cannot think of any reason why Estonia should not immediately start drawing up a strategic plan for the hydrogen economy. I don't know why. Answer to the second question: there are three other areas where hydrogen is an excellent energy carrier. First, it cleans the air of cities, because when hydrogen is used in heating elements, it is a residual water vapour that does not contain cancer-producing solids and other chemical elements. Secondly, hydrogen strategy or hydrogen as an energy carrier also allows planning of Estonia's self-sufficiency with electricity and guaranteeing energy security. In my opinion, these are all very important aspects.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U321	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U322	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress Annely, thank you for this thorough presentation and also for the work you are doing to promote the hydrogen issue with this support group. We recently gave an opinion here to the European Commission on the European Union's hydrogen strategy and supported the umbrella strategy to address this issue at European Union level. It seems very logical to me that, if we could now have this draft decision today, with our Estonian strategy, we would also be able to solve our input into this European Union-level strategy. As far as I know, our Commissioner, Kadri Simson, has also strongly supported this issue. Would you also comment a little on this from the European side in this context?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U323	Thank you very much, my dear colleague, for your good words. I believe that this Estonian hydrogen strategy is a bridge between the Estonian economy and the European Union's roofing documents. The European Union's umbrella documents are, however, very general in nature; they must enable all the Member States of the European Union to implement them, but in order for the country to succeed, this hydrogen strategy must be highly adapted to the natural conditions and national possibilities of Estonia and to the current structure of energy production. I think that the proposed hydrogen strategy will certainly help Estonia to benefit from the hydrogen economy on the one hand, and on the other hand to walk on the same foot as the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U324	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U325	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear waitress, Estonia has high performances in developing fuel cells for hydrogen technology, and Estonian scientists have been quoted very much in the world's scientific journalism. How can it be that, in a country from which last year's European Union Innovation Award comes, we cannot convince our officials in certain ministries that we also need to organise our thoughts at national level and put them together in a single strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U326	Thank you very much, my dear colleague, for a good question. Indeed, despite the fact that Estonia does not have a hydrogen strategy, Estonia has a number of renowned scientists who have developed hydrogen technology and achieved excellent results. Elcogen has applied these scientific achievements to the development of its products. And Elcogen exports to a large extent its products to Japan, which, according to its hydrogen strategy, uses them in households. That is why we know that Estonia has this knowledge and that it also has these entrepreneurs. As politicians, we can give it a boost. We in the Riigikogu may not have to explain to the authorities of the ministries how they should think, but we should instruct the officials, as the draft states, to develop strategies. After all, we in the Riigikogu have elected representatives of the people, and our task is also to give officials tasks and to demand that they be carried out, that policies be drawn up and implemented. The Riigikogu must be stronger in establishing policies, for which we have allowed ourselves to be chosen here, and that is what we must be able to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U327	Kaido Höökelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U328	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, What do you think, Annely, that still motivated Japan to develop the first hydrogen strategy in the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U329	Thank you very much for the intriguing question, Mr Kaido. No doubt I should ask you this, because you, who have lived and worked in Japan for many years, would probably be able to answer that question much better than I do. But I think and dare to imagine that Japan's lack of energy and perhaps also the problem of air cleanliness in large cities. But I don't know, I really just think so. And I'd appreciate it if you shared your knowledge with me and your colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U330	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U331	Thank you. Well, like you said, hydrogen is just an energy carrier, so there must be some other trick in Japan besides the lack of energy you called it. But I'm gonna break this electric and hydrogen issue off on trains. I didn't hear you guys talk about it. We have plans here again, like electrifying the entire country with Soviet power, or at least trains. Is there anything we can do to stop this? Hydrogen trains, I think, have come quite far. What about the government? I've heard that answer once, and it was pretty stupid. Maybe there's been some progress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U332	Thank you very much, very precise question! Yes, there have been many articles in the press that Estonian railways will be electrified on a very large scale. The state budget that has just passed the third reading has EUR 3.9 million for the design of certain sections of rail electrification, as well as a reference that EUR 192 million will be foreseen for the implementation of these projects in the future. These amounts are insane and are set out in the explanatory memorandum to the state budget strategy adopted today. But now the hydrogen trains. Because this amount is so high and it is still possible to turn it into a hydrogen economy as long as the buckets aren't grounded. The hydrogen support group set up in February last year planned a familiarisation trip to Germany and planned to go to the hydrogen fair in April. It was postponed to July because of the corona, then cancelled, and by September again, a visit was agreed with Alstom, the train manufacturer. Alstom has produced trains that already drive and agreed to show us the development of its trains and locomotives. From there we had to move on to Vienna, Austria. In short, hydrogen trains were first tested in northern Germany near Bremen, but by September these trains had been taken to Vienna for testing. And I've heard from another report that these trains have already been tested in North Holland. It is convenient to use such trains on sections of about 100 kilometres and, above all, they are used in near-urban traffic, where high speeds are not developed. From the Dutch report, we learned that if the speed goes above 95, fuel consumption will increase exponentially. But the advantage of these trains is that they're quiet and they don't pollute the air. In our case, you know how far these trains go from Tallinn's Baltic station. A large number of trains travel within a 100 km radius and, in this sense, these hydrogen trains already tested and built in Alstom are quite likely to fit well here in the vicinity of Tallinn for exactly the same reasons: no need to electrify, can save its cost, they are less noise and pollute less air. These trains are there. Similarly, the county around Bremen ordered 14 hydrogen-powered trains from Alstom as a result of the tests. So our support team is waiting for the corona restrictions to be lifted to go check out these trains on site. The Estonian Embassy will help us and the Estonian Embassy will also help us. I see very important applications for better use of money coming to Estonia from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U333	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U334	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for this review. And I think the first sentence of your explanatory statement has been partially fulfilled. You say in your first sentence that the aim is to focus more attention at national level on the opportunities for hydrogen technology and the decarbonisation of the economy. I think what we are doing now is definitely a step in this direction, so thank you for that. But my question is rather that form and content. You are now talking about formalising the hydrogen strategy document, but I will later give an overview of what was said in the Commission. In fact, the Commission also found that Estonia is working on this, that a hydrogen working group has been set up, that there are companies, that there are different ministries, that there have been meetings several times, and that it has been set up where it wants to be. A study has been commissioned, which I think will be completed next April, and basically EUR 30 million for pilot projects, of which 5 million are already in the budget and 25 should come in the future. So steps have been taken in a row, and there are things being done right now. Here comes the question of my form and content. Is it important for you to have a hydrogen strategy, or is it important for you to do what will be done in Estonia in the near future, what will be achieved and how will it be done? If it exists in other existing strategies, will it resolve the situation? That's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U335	Thank you very much for your question, my dear colleague. On all the aspects that you have just asked about, I have actually paid attention in my speech. You were probably moving between your office and the hall at that moment. However, I would like to reiterate briefly that, compared to investments in the energy sector of 125 million or 200 million, this is 30 million too little for four years to get the hydrogen economy going. I also gave an overview of the joint order of the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the State Chancellery to the Stockholm Environmental Institute, the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics and CIVITA. I have stated that this is a study and this is a fundamental study on which it is good to make sure that we have a strategy for hydrogen. The study will find out what our options are, which are our resources, but the strategy still contains decisions that we will make with these resources in our environmental conditions and what we will not do. But yes, this Ministry of Economic Affairs 5+25 is like a pilot project and it also provides a basis for a longer-term strategy. However, the hydrogen strategy and this climate neutrality target are set for 2050, which is 30 years ahead. So these are like different orders of magnitude, different degrees of generalization.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U336	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U337	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, first of all, I sincerely congratulate you on your very thorough preparation and a meaningful presentation. I honestly admit that a few years ago, entrepreneurs interested in the subject came to me, too, but I could not respond to them to the extent that you have done so here today. So thank you so much for that! But my question is: is hydrogen energy for Estonia a question of faith, choice or necessity?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U338	Thank you very much, my dear colleague Toomas Kivimägi! The thing about this hydrogen is, if you lift this lid a little bit, it's gonna get you going. In this sense, it is such an exciting, forward - looking undertaking and, in any way, the morally right thing to do. I think, in the 19th century, when Wilhelm Ostwald, who worked at the University of Tartu, discovered the possibilities of hydrogen as an energy carrier, it was perhaps a matter of faith that could or could not be used. However, in the light of today's climate policy, the effects of carbon emissions and other related knowledge, the development of the hydrogen economy and hydrogen technology is, let us say, an inevitable choice. It's an inevitable choice these days. Perhaps once there was faith, but now science has evolved so far that it is an inevitable choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U339	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U340	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I support this praise that an excellent presentation, a great deal of information. Personally, I like one fact about hydrogen energy, namely that it has been used as a rocket fuel because it has such a high energy charge. But the world is using it a lot and the European Union plans to invest until 2030, expects EUR 430 billion to be invested in hydrogen fuel and possible support could be EUR 145 billion. Do we have partners here among the neighbouring countries to implement or implement this great idea, such as Finland, Latvia or Lithuania?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U341	Yeah, sure. Finland, Latvia, Lithuania and Sweden are already farther away in their planning. But North Holland, North Holland, the three counties of North Holland, where the energy produced in wind farms in the North Sea lands, is the leader in the complex deployment of hydrogen technology. They have described their project as "Hydrogen Valley" in the same way as Silicon Valley. Their Hydrogen Valley is a local project in this sense, that the energy from the sea comes from the sea, which I am currently unable to say exactly whether it is hydrogen already at sea or now on the mainland by electrolysis, then it is fueled and then it is thought about how to transport pipes along it, how to use it in housing and how to use it in heavy transport, including heavy goods vehicles and trains. Maybe they're integrated like these. And the Dutch want to move a network that brings together different regions across Europe. I've seen quite a few Dutch presentations in the last year, and I'm saying that in June I saw a presentation where they introduced it, and I first met this Hydrogen Valley project. On Hydrogen Day, a new introduction was already made to the same project and it was then known that 38 regions from Spain to Central Europe had already joined their networks. Well, it's this dissipation of electricity, let's say, hydrogen production and the use of hydrogen as an energy carrier, and Holland wants to haul it for the network. In this sense, if such a cluster were to be formed in Estonia and it were to be called the Dutch network, we would already have 40 partners right now. Perhaps, in the meantime, there have been more, because this project is still evolving, as far as I know, at a dizzying rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U342	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U343	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, I too thank you for a very meaningful presentation and for the thorough answers. I understand that there are scientists and entrepreneurs in Estonia who are already engaged in hydrogen energy, but one thing did not make sense, and I just want to know. Perhaps you can tell whether the Estonian state currently does not have any directions for the development of hydrogen energy or national opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U344	Yes, unfortunately, there isn't. When I prepared my presentation for the hydrogen day on 24 October, I took off the website of the State Chancellery, where there should be and there are a number of development plans in force in Estonia. First of all, like yesterday, the forestry development plan that was already at issue yesterday has already exceeded the deadline for a very large number of development plans, ending on 31 December. In fact, I tried to look in Word's documents "Estonia's climate policy 2050" and "Estonia's energy policy 2030," I entered the word "hydrogen" in the query window. It turned out that there is no hydrogen in it, i.e. if there is, only somewhere on the list that hydrogen could be used and this is one option, but no real guidelines, plans or resource planning can be found in Estonian development documents.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U345	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U346	Thank you. Well, regardless of what someone's view of the world is, it is general logic that those countries that find out more quickly which technologies shape the future get a head start. And the small country of Estonia, I think, has no choice but to understand what is one technology that is highly likely to affect the world in order to be among the first. But my question is purely selfish. I am deeply sorry that I failed to take part in this study visit, at least not as a member of the Riigikogu. However, since Estonian entrepreneurs and researchers are dealing with hydrogen, have you considered such an option that this visit could include, for example, a representative of entrepreneurs and researchers?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U347	Thank you very much for your question. We really planned this delegation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment and the Riigikogu. And actually, we set the goal that one third of this delegation, that is to say seven or eight people from a delegation of 20, would be entrepreneurs. Because, indeed, it is business that is at the thick end of the development of the hydrogen economy. The economy is a business area. I am not a proponent of state capitalism, because entrepreneurs can still do their job and do their business better than any country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U348	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U349	Thank you. My question is rather technical, let us say, the technical nature of this hall. Toomas Kivimägi has already asked you if it could be a matter of faith. You know very well that this is a government proposal. Proposement to the government requires a majority of 51 votes. If you're looking around this hall right now, it's kind of thin. Do you believe that if it is put to the final vote now, the coalition members will eventually come to the Chamber to give this progressive idea a total of 51 votes, or do you think they're just gonna let this matter die?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U350	Let's just say it's really a matter of faith now. And I really believe at this point that coalition ambassadors will come to the hall and give their vote so that this draft will become a task for the government to support the hydrogen strategy. Faith is the kind of thing that dies or lives when the lights are on on on the tablet. But I think that even if today the coalition is not ready to support the hydrogen strategy, there is no way to stop it. Perhaps it is still possible to postpone it or to slow it down, but I think that the issue as such can no longer be stopped.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U351	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U352	Thank you. Dear waitress, first of all, thank you very much for a thorough and excellent presentation. Within the framework of this draft strategy, we have talked about the hydrogen working group or support group planning to go to Germany and to other places to see how the European countries have their stories with hydrogen and what we should take over. One part of this strategy should not be to develop this kind of cooperation between the countries of the European Union in order to introduce hydrogen technology in particular?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U353	Yeah, that's a very good point! I think that the hydrogen strategy, if it were ready, could still give the company the courage to engage even more in the hydrogen economy, to channel its R &amp; D into this area, to focus its R &amp; D budgets in this area. But as far as European cooperation is concerned, I think that a hydrogen cluster should be made in Estonia. And I think it would be good for Estonian business and the hydrogen economy if this Estonian hydrogen cluster were to join the same Dutch hydrogen network, because there have already been very many tests in different regions, very many pilot projects already carried out, which we no longer have to test ourselves, but we can go and see. We can get acquainted with these projects, then we are already a long step ahead, both in time and financially, and we can learn from the experiences of others and also from failures. Trans-European cooperation is very important. I don't think any country alone can do that. Or if anyone can, Germany, which has planned 7 + 2 billion for the development of the hydrogen economy. But small countries can only do this if they have cooperation and networks. My own opinion has still been that it is up to us politicians to open doors to entrepreneurs. So I intend to accompany myself and organise every visit where I can open doors for Estonian entrepreneurs. Because we politicians are also business cards of our country and the creators of our country's relations, the salesmen of our country, the salesmen of our country's economy, there is nothing to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U354	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. And now I'm going to ask Sven Sester, Chairman of the Economic Commission, to hold a chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U355	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, For my part, I will give an overview of what was said in the Commission. The Commission met at its regular meeting on 23 November to discuss this issue. We actually concentrated two topics on that day or, let's say, two different debates. If you'll excuse me, I'll give you an overview of this other subject. Indeed, one side is the desire of Annely Akkermann's current hydrogen strategy, which, by its very nature, is two-phrased as a draft decision, and the essence of it is that the government should prepare a future hydrogen strategy. But secondly, what we brought to the Commission on the same day, namely Estonia's views on the European Commission's climate-neutral European hydrogen strategy, is the same subject. Since both issues are somewhat interrelated, I will deal with them together. I am not going to talk over what Annely Akkermann said in the committee, because she has already done in this Chamber, too, but I will immediately go to the questions and answers that were in the committee. There were quite a few of them in themselves. First, there was an interest in whether Estonia could shape Europe's position on the hydrogen strategy. I would like to stress once again that we have discussed not only the possible draft decision, but also Estonia's views on whether these positions may be contrary to Europe's national personal views, or whether they are generally similar to those of Europe. We had three people from different ministries who spoke on the subject. I say here that they were officials of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. On the subject of the debate on the possible similarity or distinction between Europe and Estonia and whether we are personneling our positions, which may be very different from those of Europe. It was said that we support the views of the European Union, which are related to hydrogen, and they coincide with those of Estonia. Perhaps this picture is better in Europe today in terms of setting such numerical targets, but Estonia is working to achieve a clearer picture of Estonia's strengths and the potential of entrepreneurs and research in the near future. It was also pointed out that, since Estonia is small in itself, it certainly poses problems in creating large-scale value chains, which in turn means that cross-border cooperation is certainly important. At that time, the Commission also wanted to know whether the ministries had a working group or a body that would develop Estonia's positions and decide what Estonia would do on the current basis of hydrogen. Then they gave us feedback. As has been pointed out here, the Ministry of the Environment has a hydrogen working group with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications with the House for Renewable Energy. Joint discussions will be held to discuss where the moment is, how to move forward, what the parties expect, where to work together, etc. This cooperation prepares the conditions for support measures for pilot projects in order to test the mini-models of the value chain in Estonia. In parallel, a study on the deployment of hydrogen resources is underway, analysing which sectors would make the most sense to use hydrogen resources, which technology is there and at what stage of maturity. This will help you to know which value chains it would be reasonable to invest in, because it is clear that the resource base of the Estonian state is limited. As I mentioned earlier in my question, this analysis should be completed by April 2021. The representative of the Ministry also stated that hydrogen itself is part of this whole energy system and is seen as an enabler of renewable energy. Then there was interest, mainly Annely Akkermann, when several years Estonia is behind other countries and whether Estonia will be able to catch up with other countries in the next few years. It was noted here that the first major hydrogen issue was raised at European level in 2008, but then the conditions were not right because there was not enough renewable energy and delivery times for hydrogen technology purchase were much longer than today. But now the hydrogen issue is clearly on the agenda in Europe, the conditions are right, and Estonia, too, will certainly have to choose the right strategic breakthroughs and niche locations in the near future so that we can maximise our potential. It cannot be said that Estonia has fallen behind. Rather, there is a process of development and monitoring how circumstances develop in a holistic way. Estonia is taking its steps, and it is important that this is also emphasised in the Committee on Economic Affairs, so that future decisions are knowledge-based. From there, the next stage was reached. In order for these decisions to be knowledge-based, it is also necessary to await a study that is already underway. This study should be completed, as I mentioned earlier, by April next year. Then we can figure out how to move on. It was further pointed out that hydrogen is not produced simply for the sake of hydrogen production, but is an enabling factor for renewable energy, so other alternatives and the interaction between them need to be considered. 30 million euros went through, which was discussed today, and asked where exactly Estonia was actually planning to put its 30 million if this money came at all. It was said that the aim is to carry out pilot projects and is a planned support measure for hydrogen value chain testing projects. Five million are already available in the state budget in line with the MKM budget for climate policy pilot projects and EUR 25 million should come from the European Union's recovery funds. It would then be like real money, and it is clear that it is always important that there is a financial dimension to it if there is to be any new direction. Then the Commission was talking about what this piloting is and if pilot projects are to be carried out, what this piloting means. It was also said that there have been no previous activities in Estonia with such a measure, and there will also be this concept of pilot. The aim is a measure on which we will understand in the future, based on the scientific basis in which to channel this money and where to channel our energy. It was also mentioned that, in relation to this EUR 5 million, it would rather be oriented towards the transport sector. When asked why it was in the transport sector, it was said that the sector actually has the most 'functioning' solutions in the European Union. Hence the conclusion that Estonia is putting money in the transport sector in the context of hydrogen as a pilot project. And it would be more of a learning experience to understand where there are bottlenecks and where more competence is needed and how to change possible regulations or criteria. There was also an interest in who is in this hydrogen working group when such a working group comes together, discusses and invents future steps. It was reported that they include hydrogen interested parties, both universities and companies, most of which have companies in the working group. People were wondering if they were meeting periodically and whether they had any physical meetings or virtual meetings. By that point, they had visited the Ministry of the Environment twice. I do not know, if I am not mistaken now, they have been together for the third time between this meeting of our committee and today. But then let's say they've gotten together two to three times. Then we had a discussion about it and wanted to know what we were talking about here today, which is important, either form or content. The form is that there is a strategy, the content is that there is an understanding of what can be done with hydrogen and what are the possibilities. In this context, there was a debate about the fact that Estonia already has different development strategies, development plans and dozens of other documents. Rather, the position taken in Estonia is that perhaps fewer development documents could be created. So what if we are talking about a possible hydrogen development strategy document? We wanted to know whether the message from the ministries to the Committee on Economic Affairs is that the matter is being dealt with, the content counts, and the trends that are being pursued are already in work and do not need to create a separate strategy for this. Or should it still be created? The representative of the Ministry confirmed that indeed, the message is this: the work is ongoing, regardless of the hydrogen development strategy as such a formal document, and rather it is important that the results can be achieved on which progress can be made. And if these results are finally reflected in other documents, then certainly the content here is more important. There was also interest in the fact that, when the state is involved, there is some kind of ministry that specifically deals with it, and under which ministry the hydrogen issues should be. It was then stated that two ministries were involved: the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The committee then discussed which ministry could be more important and, if these issues are in two places, what aspects each ministry has. It is clear that both have their own aspects, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has economic aspects and the Ministry of the Environment has a more environmentally friendly technology theme and the whole side. There was also an interest in the implementation unit or a specific organisation that will implement these hydrogen measures. One thing is that there are different ministries, but the question is, who is the implementing unit then? There was also an answer to that, namely the Environmental Investment Centre. There's a level of competence that allows us to move forward. Those were the different questions. Finally, there were decisions or decisions. As I mentioned earlier, we have several decisions. I gave you some insight into the positions of a climate-neutral hydrogen strategy in Europe and in the Commission, we found by consensus that the positions of the government with which Estonia goes to Europe are supported. The decisions on the specific draft were also as follows: to appoint me as rapporteur (this was a consensual decision), to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today (a similar consensual decision) and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote (also a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U356	Thank you. Good waitress! You have questions too. The first question is Taavi in the garment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U357	Thank you. I tried to remember similar initiatives. In my opinion, during this time, when I have seen the Riigikogu very closely, it is one of the few initiatives in which the development of one of the areas of the Riigikogu is really being carried out and where both the private sector and the research sector have been involved and done very effectively. In any case, a great bow in front of all those who have actively carried it. I listened with great interest to Annely's presentation as well as to your presentation, Sven. I know that we are also listened to by entrepreneurs and scientists on this issue. But one thing that did not come out of this presentation is: do I understand correctly that all the participants or all the delegates support it, i.e. it is also an acceptable plan for the coalition? At least I didn't hear any arguments against it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U358	Thank you. First of all, I would like to start by saying that, as always as politicians, you did the revision first before the question came first. I think we should not say that this is the one and only action that is on a good level, I could say that we have been involved in maritime affairs, we have been working very actively with maritime organisations, we have already brought several ships under the flag of Estonia, if I am not mistaken, but we have also made important changes in the laws in the form of tax distinctions, etc. I think that there are certainly more joint projects where cooperation is actually carried out with different organisations, including businesses. So it's definitely not the one and only thing to heroize. However, as far as this issue is concerned, whether this draft is supported, etc., the Commission has not taken a clear decision here. He can't take it. Certainly, as I mentioned earlier, the final decision is in the hands of a large Chamber and sectoral committees do not shape decisions at that moment. But what I can say is: I felt that, in any case, several members of the Commission also expressed it with their questioning, the protocol does not convey emotions and stated that the work that the Estonian state is doing in order to introduce hydrogen in the future is enough to go on with it. That was the same question of form and content: what is important to us, form or content? And if you say that content is important, is the Estonian state today dealing with the actual introduction of hydrogen in the future, from its possible production to its final use, then yes, I think that the content is being dealt with today. And that was actually passed on by the ministerial staff. This, in turn, responds to the fact that there is no need to develop a separate document, it is not necessary at that moment, at least the ministries also signaled this. But, of course, the hall is the one who decides.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U359	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U360	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Long story, pretty story. I would have expected, in the end, what the Commission is proposing to do in the Chamber. But since the Commission doesn't seem to want to recommend anything, I'm gonna tell you a little bit about what real life looks like. This hydrogen technology is dealt with by very successful and very clever entrepreneurs in Estonia explicitly say that their technology, their activities, are of interest to all foreigners and governments outside Estonia, but not to the Estonian state. And they feel deeply sad about it. I predict that if we do this again here I do not know what word I am going to use, as it is going to happen today, i.e. we do not vote in favour of such a thing, we do not deal with it, then this technology and these companies will be bought by, for example, the Chinese. I know it's already on and on. And then we're going to confirm afterwards that there was a moment, but he's gone. Then we'll take the ships you called here. But these ships could also drive hydrogen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U361	Well, there was no question, I understand, there was a comment. But you know me, don't you, I'm trying to give the comments counterreflection. I will, of course, try not to go beyond this Commission's work cycle. It was certainly the job of the previous rapporteur to give an overview; I would rather give an overview of what was being said in the Commission. But a few things. First of all, the first thing is that I do not think we should politicise it at this point, just as you have put it, and a little bit in my ear, Mr Kranich's question to the previous waitress. It's like you're politicizing it somehow. I don't think we should politicise it. I think it is important that we understand in the same way that hydrogen is important in the perspective of the future and that we have a common understanding in this respect. Here I assure you this is certainly important, yes. Now the next question is whether the Estonian state is taking steps to prove this importance in the future. I think so, it does. I think it's like this. I don't like this moment of politicism you're trying to do here. In that sense, it's your responsibility. I can't put words in your mouth. When it comes to what you started, I think we still have to work it out, after all, it is correct. I even looked into it specifically. Nor would I have any problem with draft decisions to shape the Commission's position. Oh, my God! I'm the fifth in Parliament! Now, do not worry that I would be afraid to ask the Members of Parliament for a position in one way or the other. But it turns out, true story, we only have a chance to direct this bill to the hall, because the hall is the one who decides. This was then done by consensus. So there's no problem. But once again, I think the country is working in this direction, and I think that is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U362	Kaido Höökelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U363	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! Do you think if one state company and a number of officials had all the energy that went to Utah and Jordan projects a few years ago, directed to developing a hydrogen strategy, would we be sitting here now discussing it, or would a hydrogen bus already travel around Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U364	Thank you. Of course, if you start with something, the sooner you start, the sooner you get to the end. And the decisions made at different times are different. Today we are discussing some issues here in the Riigikogu that we might not have discussed two or three years ago. Who would have thought that before? Times change and we are in this situation, exactly as the good questioner says, not only in Estonia, but actually in Europe, where this topic has been taken on a table much more strongly. In my introductory speech, I have already mentioned that, if I am not mistaken, Europe began to talk about this for the first time in 2008, but then it was actually taken off because it was said that it was not yet ready. It is now ready both in Europe and in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U365	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U366	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have to admit, your report was controversial. You started with a message on how the Commission expressed its views on the European hydrogen strategy. And you put a clause there that you know better in Europe, we are still working and trying here in Estonia, but we do not know exactly. At the same time, you say that the activities are ongoing and the name doesn't matter, it's a strategy or action. Actually, it does matter. Having also communicated with hydrogen connections, businesses and other interested parties, I can see that there is a clear expectation that the state will provide a guideline on which we are going and how we are going. Businesses can invest, they can plan, and the parties can come together to implement such a major change. In turn, I think that the strategy, as we see in other countries, is also important in order to say: wait, this is a priority for the Estonian state, we are dealing with it. I still get the impression that at least on the side of the coalition in this Chamber, there is no wish to support it. Specific question: Is there any other major narrative in the Fatherland, in addition to the tax truce, or is that just it? Why can't this other narrative hydrogen be?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U367	Thank you. Well, we're going to go to a different course now, when we start talking about people's different thoughts, party thoughts, etc. In this sense, I am still the rapporteur for one draft committee, and I should actually give an overview of what was said in the committee. But of course, when asked, I'm always ready to answer. This is also known by the former Members who have been debating here with me. First of all, I think there is no contradiction. Let's take these tensions off so there's no way it's gonna sound like there was a contradiction. No, there is no contradiction and very clearly Estonia supports the activities of the hydrogen strategy. I deliberately introduced not only the draft decision tabled by Annely Akkermann, but it is really only two sentences, and its content is to give the government the obligation to develop a hydrogen strategy and add it to the relevant development plan, there is no more, even though the explanatory memorandum is longer, but also the views of Estonia that are going to Europe. I will also talk about these points, although I have described all this to some extent. Estonia supports the pan-European hydrogen strategy, we believe that it is important to promote hydrogen technology throughout the value chain to produce hydrogen from renewable energy and to be widely used. That was what I already mentioned to you before, the whole value chain. The perception of this value chain is something that we get from studies in April 2021. That is also what I mentioned in scientific research. Science is what is very important. And Estonia sees great potential for using hydrogen primarily as an energy carrier and storage device in sectors where it is more difficult to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It's a very clear position. In addition, Estonia supports the strengthening of the supply and value chains of renewable energy technology, including the production of clean hydrogen in Europe, which would enable the European Union to achieve technological independence and security of energy supply, and would help ensure the availability of green energy and competitive prices. Once again, the position is very clear from Estonia's perspective. And we have said clearly: in order to ensure a stable regulatory environment for the European Union to introduce zero-emission and low-emission hydrogen, we support the establishment of common rules, such as certification requirements and standards. Very clear and practical understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U368	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U369	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, From what you said, I understood that the Estonian state is already taking very big steps towards the development of hydrogen. The question is this: is not what the Estonian state is doing, in principle, that it lets hydrogen companies operate in a calm manner, throwing sticks at them, that let them keep doing it, but the Estonian state basically, how can I say, it does not support them financially, but we just talk about it? I have one more question for you, and I want to know your personal opinion. Does Estonia need to develop a hydrogen strategy? Your personal opinion is needed or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U370	Thank you, good Kristina. I actually talked about it for a long time before, but I repeat, there's no question in this sense, maybe he missed his ears, and there's no double rumbling. No, not at all. It is not at all that the Estonian state looks aside and says that let somebody act somewhere. We don't bother them and all the jokes. No, no, no! And the question was, will the money be added? Of course! I was just talking, 30 million euros. It's not small money at all. This political decision has already been made, five million already exist in the MKM budget as early as next year, and 25 million are expected to come from the recovery fund. And it's already meant that this five million would go to the transport sector. Again, why the transport sector? Because it seems that there is now the greatest chance of realising something in this hydrogen-related value chain at the end. There is already a financial dimension behind this very clearly. In addition to this, as I mentioned earlier, a study that should be completed in the spring of next year is already under development, particularly with regard to hydrogen, and precisely in order to understand how to take the next steps in Estonia and move forward on a knowledge-based basis. So no, it is not at all that the Estonian state is an observer. Not to mention that there is also the same group that the Estonian state holds, with entrepreneurs, universities, etc. That's the message. I'm just passing on the information that officials have been reporting. And I have no reason to doubt their words. This message, which has also been given in the Committee on Economic Affairs, I am currently representing the Committee on Economic Affairs, is that the Estonian state is already working in the direction we are talking about as a possible hydrogen value chain. It's very important. You had one more question. Would the Estonian state need a hydrogen strategy? I'm sorry! Yeah, you had that question too. There were several times before that. Taavi Kõivas asked if anyone would support it or not. I did get the impression, and I myself share to some extent this view in the committee, although it did not come out directly, it would be wrong to say so, but it was the impression that according to what the Estonian state is doing, the hydrogen strategy is not an end in itself, but the aim is content, i.e. what is being produced and what is being done. I can tell you that's being dealt with. And rather, it was said that maybe another new strategy is not needed right now. Rather, we need to move forward with these activities and then adopt them. They also brought in the development plans, and I'll tell you what they are. Estonia's national energy and climate plan and development plan for the energy economy. These would be, let's say, those places where, actually, through research and activities, there would be clear messages. It's being dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U371	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U372	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu! In the Committee on Economic Affairs, the preparation of the strategy for the future prospects for hydrogen management was at the hearing. We addressed this issue from the point of view that the representatives of the country were present in two ministries, explaining what they were doing. The document has been drawn up, it exists, there is even an institution that deals with it. However, we did not address this problem at all from the point of view that we still have businesses, we have people in the scientific community, we have otherwise alert people who are gathering and talking about the introduction of hydrogen, and we are looking to the country at how the country sees this thing at all. Perhaps we are lacking such a coordinated approach, which is actually a strategy that is the separate role of each sector, the role of cooperation in how we move forward together with hydrogen management in the future perspective. What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U373	I don't know if we were in the same room or not, but I don't have a problem again and again. In my opinion, in this sense, we still have to have this interaction somewhere. When you say that we were together in the Committee on Economic Affairs, and we are in this Chamber too, and it has not been decided anywhere whether or not the state is doing anything, but somebody is operating somewhere, then listen, I said just before that a hydrogen working group has been set up. There's a hydrogen team at the Ministry of the Environment who's been together two or three times today. In this respect, they want to see a much greater intensity. I don't know if two or three times is not enough or I don't appreciate it because I'm not an expert. But somewhere there are operational bodies operating in cooperation with universities and businesses. Is this cooperation enough? I cannot tell you this, but based on the information given to us in the Committee on Economic Affairs, where you were yourself, we were given an understanding that action is being taken and that cooperation seems to be sufficient. I'd say that's how I figured it out. For me, the problem would have been if the Estonian state (a) did not act or (b) did not have a goal to go on and where to go. I think you should agree, too. At the meeting of the Economic Commission, we were briefed on the steps that the Estonian state is taking now, so it can be said that the Estonian state is operating and dealing with hydrogen issues, which maybe three or four years ago was not dealt with. I don't mean to be unfair, but I don't think three or four years ago these subjects were dealt with. A gentleman who is involved in the creation of fuel cells, Mr. Apple Tree, whom I know personally, who may have been involved in this for ten to fifteen years. But yes, then Estonia did not operate in the hydrogen sector. What now Estonia only, even Europe did not deal with it. It's different today. In Europe, as well as in Estonia, both energy and financial resources are being and are being directed towards the future use of hydrogen and the creation of a value chain. And I think it's very important. It is not important whether there is a strategy document written on "Estonia's hydrogen strategy," but whether the Estonian state is operating. And it seems to me from the information we received in the Committee on Economic Affairs that the Estonian state today has a desire, knowledge and desire to move forward, and also financial resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U374	Valdo Randpere, please! How?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U375	I don't think there's two questions, I think. Of course, I don't have a problem if he wants to ask, but I don't think I can do two. [[A voice from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U376	Oh, yeah, I'm so sorry, I've become too kind. Unfortunately, there's a question for each waitress, and Valdo Randpere already has a number two in front of him, so there's nothing we can do about it. But is there a procedural question? Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U377	A procedural question. If I had not been deprived of the possibility of a question, I would have asked Sven only what his personal position was and whether he would like to call his coalition mates to vote in favour of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U378	But it's not a procedural question. Thank you! The microphone's closing now. In fact, the honourable waitress has already answered this question, although somebody else did. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U379	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleague Sven Sester! You have repeatedly referred to the working group that comes together with the Ministry of the Environment, and there really are players from different sectors who have an interest in the hydrogen economy. But the word "group" means doing some kind of work. What is the concrete work that this working group has been invited to do? What is the output of the work that will result? I've been part of the task force, too, but these meetings are, let's say, pretty lonely, and they've become like a chat room, where everyone can talk their troubles out, like a confessional chair or some kind of salon. But what comes out and what the Estonian state can do for its participants is unclear. What do you think can be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U380	Thank you. Yeah, I'll answer that, and I guess I'll answer Valdo Randpere's question, too, no problem at all, he was able to bring it up in a microphone. First of all, from the task force. Again, we are based on what has also been passed on to the Committee on Economic Affairs. I'm sure you know better yourself, I wasn't in a particular task force, but it's very right that you said that there have been a few times together, as I said, two or three times. The objective of this working group, as far as has been passed, is to understand the expectations of the various parties, the possible areas for cooperation, how the potential components of the value chain for hydrogen will be seen in the future. I may be wrong now because I am not part of this group, but I do not rule out that the same study itself is, in part, a direct product of the group or, at least, of the task set out in cooperation with it, the outcome of which we will see in April next year. I assume it's been discussed with the task force somehow, but I'm not part of the task force. The primary objective of this working group should be to synchronise, because let us not forget that there are several parties in the working group, as I mentioned earlier, universities, entrepreneurs and also the state in the form of ministries, what our capabilities are now and where we would like to go. That is how I see how this task force should work. Oh, I'm sorry! Valdo Randpere asked me what my personal position was. Of course, if I've been asked, I haven't missed answers in general. I think it makes sense to pay attention to hydrogen. I also receive the letters that Annely Akkermann mentioned from hydrogen-powered entrepreneurs, I am in this information list. I really think, yes, that the Estonian state should make an effort today. And here I have a different view of Evgeny Ossinovski. He also said in oral form during today's debate that he did not think it should be done. He came by my desk one more time and said he shouldn't have to deal with it. Here we have a different position, and here I rather have a common position with Annely Akkermann that needs to be addressed. And I think, as I mentioned earlier in my question, that the first sentence in this explanatory statement is, in my opinion, a good sentence and correct. I quote this again: "The aim of the draft is to focus more attention at national level on the possibilities for hydrogen technologies to reduce Estonia's carbon emissions and decarbonise the economy. " I think that makes sense. We are already dealing with this in this Chamber today, I think that a lot of people have never had to think about hydrogen before, and in the Committee on Economic Affairs we are also taking these steps. And we also understood that national organisations are actually working on it. If you're asking for my personal opinion, yes, I think hydrogen should be dealt with. Is it necessary to create a separate strategy paper for this purpose? I'm not sure it should be. It is important to me that Estonia deals with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U381	Thank you. Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U382	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman! I must say that the Ministry of the Environment has been enthusiastic and ambitious in this area. At the same time, when I recall the performance of the hydrogen day prepared by the Riigikogu and the Development Monitoring Centre and the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications there, I had the impression that some men should go to further courses at the University of Tartu's Faculty of Chemistry. I see nothing but inertia in the rest of the government's ministries on this issue. I'm sorry about that!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U383	Thank you. That was a comment and there was no direct question. I certainly don't have to be an attorney for all government decisions and non-decisions, but I think "innership," as you said, is perhaps the wrong word right now. Inerty would be if something's been going on a long time ago and so on. Rather, hydrogen issues are a relatively new thing than we say that the new thing is what has been done in a few years, not for tens of years, both for Europe and for Estonia. I don't think there's any inertia here right now. As much as I have information. You can always say, for example, that the pace is too low or maybe you should put more money on it and 30 million on the pilot project next year is too low, so let's put 100 million in it. Well, I don't know, it's always gotta come from somewhere. I would rather say this: it seems to me that there is no inertia now and the direction is that hydrogen should be introduced in the future. I know that for decades, private entrepreneurs have put tens or hundreds of millions, billions, even. On the positive side, I would say that Estonia is heading there. I also thought that Estonia was not so much into this, but now it seems to me that it really is. Indeed, I am not as strong a specialist on this subject as Annely Akkermann, but at least on the basis of the information that I am presenting here once again: I am also passing on the debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs, it seems that the ministries that are dealing with it are actually doing so. I hope I'm not naive if I think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U384	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U385	Thank you. Dear waitress, I refer to your previous response, where you have stated that the strategy is not so important in your opinion, but it is important to deal with this issue. Which of these views was predominant in the Commission's debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U386	Thank you. In fact, the Commission did not form an opinion in this respect. In principle, the Commission formed the view that this debate should be brought to this Chamber and that the hall should form its final position. So, in this sense, the Commission did not form its opinion as such. The Commission was also unable to formulate an opinion on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. But once again, I stress that I think it is important to understand that this is not a matter of form, but of substance. I have said this a couple of times, and I am ready to emphasise it once again, that if the question is whether there should be one A4 or 30 or 130 pages, starting with the fact that Estonia has a hydrogen strategy, and then all the different topics that fall under it, or if all this knowledge is put in the national energy and climate plan or in the energy economic development plan or both, in the sense that the work has been done, the content is known, the direction we are going to be moving into, and the money has been allocated, then for me the other option is that the work is done. [I say again] so that we understand in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U387	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Now we can open negotiations. Do the representatives of the political groups have a wish to speak? Yes, it is. First of all, on behalf of the Group of the Kaido Höökelson Centre Party, I would like to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U388	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, What prompted me to come here was that when I asked waitress Annely Akkermann about the connection with the Japanese hydrogen strategy, Annely couldn't answer me. Then I thought I'd explain it a little bit. In 2018, the world's first hydrogen strategy was drawn up, and it was Japan's hydrogen strategy. Most of this cause was caused by the then Fukushima nuclear disaster on 11 March 2011. This was the main point where the Japanese realised that nuclear energy was the past, and in the future we must do the opposite. And so on and so forth, I could talk about this for a long time, but since there is little time, I'm gonna finish here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U389	Thank you. Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U390	Mr President of the meeting! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, In the meantime, I asked Kaido how the Japanese had gotten so far, and Kaido told me exactly the same thing, so I didn't get caught with anything. Following today's debate, I will reject half my speech because all the questions I have written there have been examined today and seem to be self-evident. Okay. I'll start halfway there. The enthusiastic desire of the Ministry of the Environment to move forward energetically on this issue could serve as an example in dealing with the issue of hydrogen. However, the inertia and sometimes incomprehension of the rest of the government, especially the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, are regrettable. At the same time, I stress that Estonia's thinking of small is not a grateful activity. We have gained the knowledge here of how to be greater than our physical body, in the context of Estonian cyber success. A modern world with a clean environment awaits us. The time has come for decisive action. Elcogen, an Estonian company created by Mr Enn Õunpuu, received the European Union's Grand Prize for Innovation in 2019. In 2020, he has received the Innovation Award of the Republic of Estonia and the Innovation Awards of the Republic of Finland. Even Skype, TransferWise and other Estonian success stories have not achieved this award. Estonian scientists from the University of Tartu and the KBFI have been quoted extensively on hydrogen in the world's scientific literature. We have serious potential to succeed in the deployment of fuel cells and hydrogen-based technologies, although the current situation can be described as being lagging behind from other countries. The reasons could be further explored tomorrow when we consider the same issue as a matter of national importance. Estonia needs a hydrogen strategy. We have a wide range of scientists and entrepreneurs. We have to show local authorities who are already preparing their development plans for the deployment of fuel cells and hydrogen. The KBFI, Chemical and Biological Physics Institute has launched an international hydrogen competence centre. I'm gonna show you the buclet of this competence center. So, the strategy makers have someone to ask for advice from. Without having and presenting the strategy, the European support funds will remain closed to Estonia. You see, if we don't know how to talk about it, we won't be given any grant money either. Among the first ten national hydrogen strategies in the European Union, the hydrogen strategy of the Republic of Finland has been adopted, and reading it seems that it could be automatically transferred to Estonia, so close are our circumstances and people. It has to be said that one of the factories of Elcogen, an Estonian company, is in Finland. I will give you an example from NATO. Estonia was the first country to draw up a cyber defence strategy in its time. Estonia already has a number of cyber defence strategies. Following us, a cyber defence strategy was drawn up, for example, by the United States and then later by European countries. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U391	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U392	In NATO, countries that had a cyber defence strategy and did not have a cyber defence strategy differed sharply. The representatives of countries that did not have a cyber defence strategy, so they had not systematically thought through all this topic, could not speak up when the issue of cyber defence was on the table. They kept silent and hindered all processes by their ignorance and misunderstanding. So, fellas, let's get started! And more. Estonia is represented in the European Commission as Commissioner for Energy by our Kadri Simson. It would be logical and highly desirable for his country of origin to be an example on this subject, not a lager. Tomorrow, in this very Chamber, we will have the opportunity to ask him about all European policies in this regard. We are drawing up strategic documents on the future of Estonia, these are the fundamentals of climate policy until 2050, the National Energy and Climate Plan of Estonia until 2030, as well as the strategy "Estonia 2035." We would certainly expect these documents to include, in the appropriate proportion, the policy that comes out of the introduction of hydrogen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U393	Thank you! There seems to be no further call request, so we will close the negotiations. As no amendments were tabled and the lead committee proposed a final vote on draft 279, we will go to this procedure. But first comes the sally. Honourable Riigikogu, I would remind you that... Taavi in Cloth, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U394	Not directly. I have concerns because, as a rule, colleagues from the EKRE Group and the Central Party Group are all in the Chamber for important votes. And we know that the Central Party Group, which has even initiated tomorrow's green turn debate in this Chamber, would certainly also like to support this draft. So, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I have a proposal to take a one-minute break, one minute, and to give the Centre Party and the EKRE Group an opportunity to meet.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U395	Jürgen Ligi, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U396	Does the procedure even allow such a thing to be voted on without the participation of the Green Party? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U397	[[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U398	Break's over. Ladies and gentlemen, a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is needed for this draft to be adopted as a decision. I will put to the final vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic to develop a hydrogen strategy" submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party 279. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U399	There are 39 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The draft decision was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U400	Let's go to the next item. Second reading of the draft law 235 on the repeal of the Commercial Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the subsequent amendment of other laws. The rapporteur is Kai Rimmel, member of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U401	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There is rarely a chance of cutting red tape and repealing some laws, but here it is: 235 SE, draft law on repealing the Commercial Act and consequently amending other laws, presented for second reading. Procedure in the Steering Committee between first and second readings. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft Act on the repeal of the Commercial Act and, consequently, the amendment of other laws. a on September 14th. The Bill repeals the Commercial Practice Act and amends other laws affected by the Act in order to reduce overregulation. The Trade Act no longer provides added value in regulating the activities of businesses active in the field of trade, including in ensuring compliance with the requirements of the product and service, and in relations with the consumer. The draft does not impose any new restrictions on entrepreneurship in the field of trade. The first reading of the draft 235 took place on 30 September. The deadline for tabling amendments was 14 November. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The Economic Commission informed the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Merchants Association and the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises. The Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities issued its opinion on the draft and all opinions were discussed together at two meetings: on 24 November and 7 December. The Committee on Economic Affairs makes four amendments to the draft. The text of the draft act has passed between two readings and has undergone linguistic changes which do not alter the content of the draft act. Four amendments, the second and third being technical. The first amendment is made to the Alcohol Act. The Economic Commission proposes to delete from the draft definitions of the place of sale envisaged in the Alcohol Act (place of business, seasonal extension of the place of sale, shop, sales hall, travelling shop, kiosk and street and market trade). In this context, it is proposed to clarify the provisions relating to the place of sale in the Alcohol Act, the Explosives Act and the Tobacco Act, which impose restrictions, prohibitions and obligations on the sale of alcohol, pyrotechnic articles and tobacco products and tobacco products. The amendment does not make the restrictions less restrictive or stricter. The amendment has been drafted in accordance with the opinion of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The amendment is based on the principle that the place of sale is identified by the existence or absence of a sales hall. In the amendment clause, the definitions of shops and travelling shops in the Alcohol Act are replaced by descriptions corresponding to the definitions proposed in the draft. According to the amendment, alcohol may be sold at the point of sale, where the sales hall (s) or the goods moving from the points of sale for retail sale are located in a vehicle with a sales hall or without a sales hall, i.e. a travelling shop. The fourth amendment is the Commission's proposal to enforce this law on 1 May 2021. It is coordinated with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and they have agreed to it. The draft law was intended to enter into force in general terms. As the repeal of the Commercial Act concerns the municipalities and cities established on this basis, it is necessary to allow local authorities time to bring the arrangements into line with the amendments adopted. Procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee. The Committee on Economic Affairs proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 9 December, that is to say, the end of the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a third reading by 16 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U402	Thank you. You have questions too. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U403	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I think this is a very good bill. The government, led by the EKRE, has made a very serious move, let us say, towards a liberal society in which overregulation is reduced, i.e. companies are given quite a degree of freedom. But how do you feel about the fact that if the government is now moving in a positive direction, the Reform Party will present a draft relating to hate speech, perhaps trying to muffle and criminalise people's free expression and thoughts? How does this comply with the principles of Estonia as a democratic state? Which is the right direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U404	Thank you. A very good question, but unfortunately this issue was not discussed at this meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. You will be able to discuss this further with your good colleagues on the sidelines.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U405	Dear waitress, there are no further questions. Now we have the opportunity, if we wish, to open negotiations. But there is no wish for negotiation. The Economic Commission or the Steering Committee has sent us a number of amendments, namely four. Let's go to their review. The first amendment, the author of the Economic Commission, the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment, from the Committee on Economic Affairs, is the position of the lead committee to take full account of. The third amendment, the author of the Committee on Economic Affairs, is the position of the lead committee to take full account of. The fourth amendment, proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs, is the position of the lead committee to take full account of. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 235. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U406	Let's go to the next item. Second reading of Bill 231 of the Law amending the Code of Civil Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic (guaranteeing an action based on infringement of intellectual property rights). The rapporteur is Marek Jürgenson, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U407	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On 24 November, including the draft, the draft was prepared for a second reading. The sitting of the Committee on Legal Affairs was chaired by Jaanus Karilaid. Marek Jürgenson, Kert Kingo, Toomas Kivimägi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Paul Puustusmaa, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomast were present. Also invited were Gea Lepik, representative of the Ministry of Justice, Kalev Rattus, CEO of the Estonian Authors' Association, Urmas Ambur, CEO of the Estonian Artists' Association, and Kaido Uduste, attorney-at-law of the Estonian Foundation of Phonogram Producers Association. Gea Lepik gave an overview of the purpose of the draft. The aim is to make it clear that, in intellectual property matters, it is also possible to apply action measures to "intermediaries' providing services enabling offenders to commit infringements, and also to ensure minimum safeguards to protect the interests of intermediaries, so that they are not unduly subject to action measures and are guaranteed compensation if it is shown ex post that the application of the measure was, however, unjustified. As a result of the analysis carried out on the basis of the case-law, the Ministry of Justice has seen that there is a gap in the law and it is unclear whether or not measures can be applied to the intermediary in order to ensure that the action is brought under the law in force. Guests' proposals on deadlines and also on costs were discussed. Gea Lepik said it wasn't about this bill. Of the members of the Commission, one question was only at Tarmo Kruusimäe, who asked what was the time practice in Europe. Mr Lepik replied that since the directive provided for a period of one month, it is believed that the practice in Europe is one month. Following the above, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 8 December, but, at the request of the Commission, it was amended by today's date. There was a consensus on that. On behalf of all the members of the Commission, it was proposed to close the second reading (same consensus). Following the completion of the second reading, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and the final vote be held on 16 December (there was also a consensus in the Commission). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U408	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Now we can open negotiations, but there is no wish for this. No amendments have been tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 231. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U409	Let's go to the next item. Bill 195 of the Bankruptcy Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and amendments to other laws as well as second reading. The rapporteur is Jaanus Kariliid, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U410	Ladies and gentlemen, First, let me remind you of the beginning. The Government of the Republic initiated this draft on 18 May. The Riigikogu was able to make proposals until 17 September. There were no proposals from the Riigikogu for the draft. I am reminding you of more ambitious goals. The aim of the draft is to make bankruptcy procedures more efficient and quicker and thus improve the business environment. More fundamental and major changes are, according to the draft, accompanied by the creation of insolvency services for the Competition Authority, the reorganisation of the administrator's remuneration system, the specialisation of courts and the reorganisation of the system of protection and recognition of claims. In addition, the system of remuneration of the insolvency administrator will be made more transparent and predictable. The draft also extends the obligation to file for bankruptcy. According to the current law, it is possible that in the absence of a member of the management board, no one is obliged to file for bankruptcy. It is now planned to extend the obligation to apply for bankruptcy to persons who have to ensure the existence of a management board. For example, in the case of a private limited company, such persons are members of the board of directors and shareholders. They are not responsible if there is a board, but if there is no board, the responsibility will be extended to them in the future. A few words about preparing the draft for second reading. First, the formal figures. In total, we had six meetings on 22 September, 13 October, 20 October, 10 November, 24 November and 7 December. We asked the Minister of Justice Raivo Aegis, Deputy Chancellor Kai Härmandi of the Ministry of Justice, Counsellor of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice Kristiina Padu, Chairman of the Board of Directors Terje Eipre and Professor Emeritus at the University of Tartu. As a result of the discussions that have taken place, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to initiate a total of 34 amendments, which, together with the relevant explanations, are included in the list of amendments to the text of the second reading of the draft. I myself bring out of these 34 proposals the most conceptual. This is a proposal No 7, which substantially alters the content of § 45 of the Bankruptcy Act. According to the amendment, the declaration of bankruptcy not only closes the arrest applied to the debtor's assets before the declaration of bankruptcy, but will normally end the court mortgage imposed on the debtor's assets before the declaration of bankruptcy. By way of derogation, in the case of bankruptcy, only the arrest or court mortgage applied to the property of the debtor in criminal proceedings to ensure the possible replacement of confiscation or confiscation shall remain valid. This is because criminal offences have not acquired property on a legal basis, which would make it neither lawful nor justified to satisfy claims on the account of such assets in bankruptcy proceedings. The amendment does not have retroactive effect and does not extend to court mortgages granted before the amendment enters into force. Thus, in the event of a declaration of bankruptcy of the debtor, all the court mortgages imposed before the entry into force of the new version of § 45 of the Bankruptcy Act provided for in this Bill, regardless of the proceedings before which the court mortgage was set up, shall remain valid. In view of the fact that, in the future, a court mortgage would normally end in the event of a declaration of bankruptcy with a similar attachment, the pending proceedings of § 43 needed to be clarified, where there is no substantive settlement at the time of the declaration of bankruptcy. They also concern proposals 3 and 4, the text of which you all have, I will not read it out. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 9 December and to propose that the second reading be stopped. In the event that the second reading of the draft is closed, it is proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the third reading by 16 December 2020 and that the final vote be taken. The majority of the votes in favour of the Riigikogu are required for the adoption of the draft act, 51 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U411	Thank you. Good waitress, you have questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U412	Good manager! Good waitress! First of all, I would like to thank you for having done a very decent job on this draft. Just a little bit of an explanation for yourself. Was there also the subject of the debate that, when the company is declared bankrupt and all the processes have been completed, the company's data and everything else are still in bankruptcy in the business register for years to come? Was there a debate on how long this whole process could still last? If it's still tens of years, does it make sense that this thing works?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U413	Yes, I will also look at Thomas, who was very lively in discussing the matter in the Committee on Legal Affairs. This aspect was not there. Just as a general background, it is worth remembering that, for example, 2018 there were 644 bankruptcies, 84% of which were processes of natural persons. That's how much I remind the honourable questioner that once the bankruptcy has been declared, this process will begin. There's a creditor, there's a debtor, there's a receiver, then there's a county court. In this quadrilateral, this process begins. Within the framework of this bill, when we adopt it on the 16th, I think this process will definitely get easier. It is in this draft that there is a great deal of equal treatment with regard to the receipt of these claims, particularly as regards proposal 7. It can certainly simplify this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U414	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. Representatives of the political groups, as well as members of the Riigikogu, are now able to speak. But it seems that there is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed 34 amendments to the draft and we will go to their review. The first amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment is from the lead committee, the Committee on Legal Affairs, and the position is to take full account. The fourth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The eighth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The ninth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The tenth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 11 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 12, the position of the Committee on Legal Affairs is to take full account. Amendment 13 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 14 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 15th amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 16th amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 17th amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 18 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 19 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 20 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 21 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The 22nd amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The 23rd amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The 24th amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 25 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 26 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The 27th amendment is from the lead committee, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the position of the lead committee is to take full account of. The 28th amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The 29th amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 30 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 31 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The 32nd amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The 33rd amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. 34th and last amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, and the position of the commission is to take full account. The amendments have been examined. There were more of them than the state budget at the third reading today. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 195 be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U415	We can go to the next item. Second reading of the Bill 120 of amendments to the Act on Fire Safety and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Toomas Kivimägi, Vice-Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U416	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sincerely pleased to see that your eyes continue to shine from the desire to contribute to fire safety. This draft does indeed contribute to this. I would like to say, as an initiative, that this draft has received an extremely thorough and meaningful approach in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The preparation for the second reading has been discussed at three Commission meetings: on 9 November, 23 November and 7 December, i.e. on Monday this week. The Protocol on the preparation of this second reading alone is available on 30 pages. This, of course, also has a role to play in this regard for our good consultant, the Protocolator, who very thoroughly minutes everyone's views, but it also actually shows how meaningful and wide-ranging this debate was in the Commission. I think it makes perfect sense, understandable and understandable that I am not going to read this protocol to you. Secondly, I want to introduce such a new tradition that I will not read out who was present, who was absent or who was not thinking along. I don't think that's very informative. If you want, you can always look at it in a specific protocol. However, I will give an overview of the three or four most important changes and, at the same time, of the subject that led to the discussion, in order to try to stick to the content. The first, I think, a very fundamental amendment to this draft is that local authorities are given the opportunity to give coordination on behalf of the Rescue Board to the construction and authorisations. This is not an option at the moment, with this bill we are giving it an opportunity. It is very important to stress that this is an opportunity, not an obligation. Whoever wants to take this chance, who doesn't want it, doesn't take it. I think that, in itself, is well-founded and reasonable. Because we are still looking at the client or the citizen: it obviously simplifies and accelerates the process of construction and permits for him, one move is cancelled or one letter is not sent by e-mail to the Rescue Board. In fact, I think it's justified. There was also the question of competence as to whether the local construction specialists are competent to provide such coordination. In fact, no separate certificate of competence is expected or required from the local government official. There is such a general comment that, if it is competent to assess the safety of general construction, it is also possible or not to provide this coordination in the light of very low levels of training. However, as a mere reply, I would like to mention that the Social Democratic Party has therefore proposed that only ad hoc buildings and summer homes should be started, excluding single houses in the first phase, but this proposal was not supported by the Commission. So right now, it's in the bill that local governments get that chance. It was also about whether it would be financed separately. There is no specific funding for local authorities here. It is still the freedom of the local government and the opportunity to bear this obligation. But of course, the citizens are very happy about it. It is certainly important to note (I spoke about competence) that the Ministry of the Interior and the Rescue Board are prepared to train and advise those local government specialists who will give these coordinations on behalf of the Rescue Board. Another very fundamental change concerns an even greater number of people. This draft introduces the mandatory use of carbon monoxide detectors in individual buildings using solid heating. Currently, the carbon monoxide sensor is mandatory in individual buildings with gas heating. There is no such obligation in individual buildings using solid heating, but with this draft we will create this obligation and it will have to be met by 1 January 2022 at the latest, i.e. roughly a year can be prepared for it. This concerns a large number of households, estimated to have to acquire a carbon monoxide sensor for 200000 households. While overall the number of fires has decreased, one of the main causes of deaths continues to be whining poisoning. Just a little bit of physics to remember: the smoke detector does report changes in temperature and air density, but not in air composition. Vat carbon monoxide sensor also signals changes in the composition of air in the form of a so-called carbon monoxide. I think it's well-founded. Of course, it's some kind of extra cost to all these 200,000 households, but if we can save even one or two lives a year with it, I think it's justified and justified. I am very concerned about this, and I have repeatedly stated that if the installation of a smoke detector is quite simple, logical, understandable, because the smoke rises up and this sensor has to be placed under the ceiling, then the installation of a carbon monoxide sensor is, in my opinion, much more complicated and complicated. There are very different views here: the height of sleep, the height of walk, somewhere in the boiler room, whatever. There's a lot of options. I'm worried about that because then the carbon monoxide sensor will be of no use if it's not properly installed and there's a deceptive expectation that everything will be fine. But the answer to that is that you have to read the instructions at the carbon monoxide sensor very accurately when you buy it at the store. I went to a Tamrex store in Pärnu once. Indeed, there is also a great deal of ambiguity for them, in what way and how. There are very different producers. It cannot be assumed that an older ma'am or a gentleman will be able to find out exactly where and how to install it. I'm also saying that you need to know the configuration of the house. When writing all this down, there should be 10 or 15 pages of instructions on this device, but these instructions are definitely not that long. So this is a problem and it is very important that local governments contribute. But once again, basically, I think it's perfectly justified and justified. The third very important issue is perhaps the most controversial, it remained up like the end. This is because this draft will also create a mandatory fire safety inspection. Today, the so-called self-control report, entrepreneurs do so themselves, they have their own specialist trained or some employees are given this responsibility as an additional task. This will be done every year, and this report will be submitted annually to the Rescue Board. The Ministry of the Interior has now found that this is not sufficient and a mandatory fire safety inspection is being introduced. But immediately I note that those affected are in the order of 10000, mostly companies, including state and local government institutions. According to the business register, there are some 88000 companies in Estonia, so it only concerns larger companies. Fire safety inspection is mandatory in an office building with an area of more than 750 square metres, an industrial and manufacturing building with an area of more than 1000 square metres and a garage with an area of more than 1000 square metres. They will be subject to this mandatory fire safety inspection. What's the problem here? The Chamber of Commerce has been seriously opposed to this. Their view has been that the self-control report is well established, that specialists exist and that the introduction of this mandatory survey does not significantly reduce the workload of businesses in this area; they do not just have to submit this report. They do not need to submit a report to the Rescue Board once they have carried out a mandatory fire safety inspection, but all other related activities actually remain. So I would argue that the volume and burden of their work in this regard will not, in fact, be significantly reduced. The second, which raises problems, is that the sum of the sum of 100 amounts in Estonia is the sum of those who are authorised to carry out a fire safety inspection, who have acquired the corresponding level. These are fifth- or sixth-degree fire safety specialists and there really are about 100 of them in Estonia. 20 of them work for the Rescue Board and it's not real that they can do the job. So 80 people today are the ones who have to do it. There is a fear that this may not be enough. Although I'll tell you later that there are some relief measures. Third, I even think maybe the most important moment. I've still heard mystical numbers this day. This overview must be ordered by each company and paid for. The amount of the draft is EUR 300. This is very difficult to say, because companies are very different in size, this cost may be, I don't know, from 100 euros to 1,000 euros, maybe even several thousand euros. If we build on this EUR 300, it will be a total of EUR 3 million. Fire safety inspections shall be carried out every three years. This means that for three years businesses will have to go out of their pockets with an additional EUR 3 million. I think the most important thing here is this base. To be honest, I heard from a colleague today that they tried to assess what a fire safety review could cost, and they saw that it could cost thousands of euros for their company. This is a very worrying place now. Indeed, if it becomes so costly, the question arises as to whether it is justified, especially for companies that have done so [the report] properly. The main proposal of the Chamber of Commerce was that this mandatory fire safety review could be voluntary and, on the other hand, the Rescue Board would be entitled to oblige those who have not properly carried out the self-control report or who have consistently had shortcomings or shortcomings there to carry out this fire safety review. I think it makes a lot of sense. Those who have managed, who meet the requirements imposed by the Rescue Board, who have the report in order, I believe that I could continue to do so myself. This is the picture, looking at the entrepreneurs. But on the other hand, it's the Ministry. I am very balanced, and I also bring out the arguments against the Ministry. The first is that, indeed, this does affect roughly 10% or a little more, perhaps 12% or 13% of companies. If, according to the register, we have some 88000 companies, 10,000 of them, or the larger, smaller ones, will not be obliged to carry out a fire safety inspection. Secondly, they say that in principle the company, some of the larger ones, has the right and the opportunity to train its fifth or sixth degree fire safety specialist. If he or she has received this certificate, the company does not have to hire anyone from outside, but if the person has a certificate of competence for a level 5 or 6 fire safety specialist, that person may do so in the company. But I think it's more of an exception. I don't know, 10, 15, 20 companies may be so big, they find this person inside their company and they do that training. The third thing that makes the Ministry say that there will still be no major problems is that the fire safety review is scattered. Like I said, it has to be every three years. However, in order not to allow all of these 10000 to fall into one year, the draft requires it to be carried out in office buildings by 1 January 2023, in industrial and warehouse buildings by 1 January 2024 and in garages by 1 January 2025. Maybe it's kind of scattered. We say size class: 3000.3500 companies and institutions per year. Fourth and last thing the Ministry says is that it's not a big problem. Point one, first of all, it must be done every three years. As I said, this self-control report, which is currently in force, must be submitted every year. They say the interval is longer in case of a fire safety inspection. Secondly, the Rescue Board is also right, if everything is fine and there are no problems, to skip another three years, i.e. to oblige the next fire safety inspection to take place in six years' time. This is so in specific cases, I assume and think it is not massive, but at least there is such an opportunity. The third thing they say is that certain buildings may be exempted from carrying out a specific fire safety inspection, the Rescue Board has such authority. For example, I don't know, some kind of tin hangar that keeps a fibo block where there's no burning material. Maybe by the size of it, it goes under this obligation, right, but if there is no fire threat, the Rescue Board may decide that there is no obligation to carry out a fire safety review. I also congratulate the Commission and the chairman of the Commission in the sense that the process of involvement has been extremely intensive. The Chamber of Commerce was also involved on Monday this week, when the Commission was sitting. Once again, there was a vote on whether this mandatory fire safety inspection could be voluntary for businesses. With 4 votes: 5, this was not supported, i.e. the majority of the Commission felt that it should be compulsory. That's the way it's in the bill right now. Perhaps I will mention the last substantive and substantial amendment. This is that this draft will create the possibility of carrying out controlled combustion with a view to both species abundance and fire safety. Here, on the one hand, there are landscape protected areas where it is permitted, it is primarily linked to the abundance of species, but theoretically it may also be linked to the risk of fire. In the training fields of the Defence Forces and the Defence League, this is primarily related to fire safety. I think it makes perfect sense, in certain cases, to carry out such controlled combustion in order to reduce the spread of fire in the event of a fire. The Commission took its procedural decisions on 23 November. a. First, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 9 December 2020. Secondly, propose that the second reading be stopped. Thirdly, when the second reading is closed, it is proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 15 December 2020. Fourthly, to propose a final vote on the draft. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U417	Thank you, good waitress. There's at least one question for you, and it's from Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U418	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! For me, it remained quite problematic, and it would be good if you'd repeat it. Now the responsibility is for whether the chimney sweeper has a license or does not have a license, a citizen who invites a chimney sweeper to visit. We understand that this also depends on the subsequent approach of insurance companies, whether or not the damage is to be compensated. However, we hope that no damage will occur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U419	Thank you for that question. However, I consider this to be alleviated by Amendment 2, which states that the fire safety service provider must submit an economic activity notification. Having this message, at first, seems like too much bureaucracy, but actually, the point is that subscribers have information about those who have professional competence. It is probably a freely accessible register and through it the citizen if he or she wants, [this possibility arises]. Of course, the question is who will do it and who will not. I don't think nine out of ten will do that, they expect this certificate and this competence to exist, but this amendment will still create this register. If I say I'm gonna wipe the chimney, and if you're gonna look at that list that I'm not there, then I guess I don't have the authority to do that and you can refuse to buy this service. So I assume that the introduction of this same system of economic notification for all fire safety service providers will create this register. Only those who hold a certificate of competence shall be admitted to that register. Indeed, by wiping the chimney, you can usually do it yourself, but every five years, I remind you, I've made it quite clear to myself, it is necessary, in the context of insurance, to wipe out the chimney of a qualified chimney sweeper. In that case, everything is fine, the house is safe and the insurance is also satisfied.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U420	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. Would you like to negotiate? It seems that there is no wish for negotiations. Then we will go to the examination of the amendments. First amendment, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, from the lead committee: take full account. Second amendment, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, from the lead committee: take full account. The third amendment, from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the lead committee: do not take account of the fact that, according to our Home and Working Procedures Act, we do not have to vote. Fourth amendment, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, from the lead committee: take full account. Fifth amendment, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, from the lead committee: take full account. Sixth amendment, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, from the lead committee: take full account. Seventh amendment, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, from the lead committee: take full account. Eighth amendment, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, from the lead committee: take full account. Ninth amendment, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, from the lead committee: take full account. Tenth amendment, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, from the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 11, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 12, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, from the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 13 from the Committee on Legal Affairs, lead committee: take full account. Amendment 14, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 15, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, from the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 16, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 17, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, from the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 18, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, from the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 19, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the position of the commission is to take full account of. We have examined all the amendments tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 120. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U421	Next is the second reading of the draft law amending the Land Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U422	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation of the second reading of the Law amending the Land Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic was discussed by the Finance Committee at its meeting on 24 November and 3 December. Helena Lehti, chief specialist of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Andres Juss, Head of the Real Estate Evaluation Department of the Land Office, and Tiina Vooro, Head of the State Land Management Department, and Henri Lindeberg, Development Specialist of the Tax and Customs Board. The draft establishes the basis for the transfer of the land tax information system from the Land Board to the Tax and Customs Board. This solves the problem that it is not possible to transmit a land tax notification to the heirs of the land who have not yet converted the property rights of the land in the land register. In addition, the Land Tax Act is brought into line with the State Assets Act, according to which the obligation to pay taxes on immovable property is a user of state assets. The right of the Tax and Customs Board to communicate information on the taxable person's tax liability to the Municipality or City Government, where appropriate, is also specified. The first reading of the draft was completed on 23 November. Neither the members of the Riigikogu nor the political groups submitted amendments to the draft by the deadline for submitting amendments, 30 November. The opinion on the draft was sought from the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, and the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities gave its opinion. The initiators of the draft act have met the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities and found a common vision. Procedural decisions were taken at the meeting of the Monetary Commission on 24 November and the opinion of the Estonian Cities and Municipalities Association was discussed at the meeting on 3 December. At its meeting on 24 November, the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 9 December and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and the final vote be taken on 16 December 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U423	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Would you like to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiations either. As no amendments were tabled, according to the proposal of the lead committee, we will conclude the second reading of the draft 285.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U424	We are going to the last item on the agenda today, the second reading of the draft law amending the Copyright Act, the Tax Administration Act and the Industrial Property Law Act (the so-called 'empty cashier's fee system' and the extension of the Patent Office's tasks). The rapporteur is Heidy Purga, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Culture. There you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U425	Thank you very much, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Copyright Act, including on 14 September. As is known, this draft amends the so-called empty cassette fee, i.e. the author's right to compensation if his work is copied without his consent for personal use. As an update, the fee for an empty tape will also be distributed to the producers of the first recording of the film. According to the draft, the Ministry of Justice transfers specific operational tasks related to copyright to the Patent Office. The first reading of the draft was also held on 14 October. By the deadline for submitting amendments, including 28 October, amendments were tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Group of the Isamaa, and seven members of the Riigikogu tabled a joint amendment, which, I can say, were members of the Reform Party. The Committee on Culture consulted a wide range of stakeholders on the draft, such as the Association of Estonian Lawyers, the Association of Estonian Authors, the Chamber of Patent Attorneys, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Association of Estonian Performers, the Association of Estonian Actors, the Association of Estonian Artists, the Association of Estonian Audiovisual Authors, the Association of Estonian Composers, the Association of Estonian Writers, the Association of Estonian Performers, etc. The Committee on Culture discussed this draft, including at its meeting on 10 November, with representatives of organisations representing rightholders. The possible amendment of the draft, the proposed amendments and opinions and questions concerning the further processing of the draft were addressed at the meeting of the Committee on Culture on 16 and 23 November and 7 December. The Committee on Culture decided to propose nine amendments to this draft, with 13 amendments in total. These are set out in an annex to this draft. I can say so much that the amendments tabled by the political groups were very similar in content, and everyone has been taken into account in substance. During the discussion of amendments and opinions, the most important issue was the level of fees and the list of storage devices and storage media. There were no major disputes, all amendments were adopted by consensus. The Committee on Culture decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 9 December and to propose that the second reading be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U426	Thank you. It seems there are no questions for the honored waitress. We can go to the negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimägi has the opportunity to give a speech in the chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U427	Thank you, good Chairman! Good guardians of the Republic! We've come here today, and we have such a good and festive feeling. I would like to thank Hardi Volmer and Madis Milling, separately from the members of the previous term, who gave this support that we went to make a really big difference. I also want to thank Indrek Saart, who was then Minister of Culture, and I also want to thank Urmas Reinsalu, who was then Minister of Justice. I guess those opinions were wall-to-wall, because let's be honest, for 12 years nothing had happened in this area. The authors' associations had already given up collecting the fee for an empty tape, as this empty tape was not even sold here in Estonia. For some reason, it was decided to always prefer foreign corporations to Estonian entrepreneurs. I recall that both the author and the author are entrepreneurs. Now, being in this new composition, I must say that the battles of the previous formation were quite fruitful. As a result, the Ministry of Justice carried out an analysis and made its own proposals. A support group of Estonian authors was created immediately, with good thinkers Üllar Saaremäe, Raivo Tamm, Madis Milling and Urmas Espenberg who clicked again on us. Now our company has grown with two new members, Marko Šorin and Imre Sooäär. I'm telling you, an empty tape and what wasn't there for 14 years has become really problematic in many places. The rights of authors are not protected on a better universal level, but I think we are industrious and fruitful. I would like to thank Aadu for the Black Trust and, of course, absolutely all the other political groups and group presidents separately, because it is not difficult for a perhaps too keen, too vocal to trust a person to be on the right track. But with this long-term debate, we got to where the Committee on Culture made all the decisions in a consensual manner, which means that the differences of opinion were worked out in advance. Today I can only admit that the Estonian state loves its authors and performers, the Estonian state stops this unequal treatment, and many Estonian authors who have already registered to other countries can return, Estonia is waiting for their talents back. The bill for the fee for an empty tape has been furnished and updated, so it is no longer empty. Happiness is back in our yard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U428	Thank you. Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U429	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, 14 long years have passed and a great deal of work has been done, and in the end this bill has reached second reading. Since so many organisations and parties have been involved here and this draft has been introduced, it is not going to go very far into the content, but it can be said that it is one very good draft. I ask you to support this. Money remains in Estonia, supports Estonian culture. For example, more than 5 million were collected in Lithuania this year [this fee]. So it's a pretty important amount. The authors need to be kept by the creators need to be kept. I remember Leonardo da Vinci, who worked at the court of François I, though Sforzad. The Sforzas said you should draw a drawing on that diner wall. Now there's "Holy Dinner" and everybody's going to watch it. So it's better to judge authors in life than in death. But once again, support this bill, a very good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U430	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U431	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! In some ways, I repeat what has already been said. But Juhan Liiv has said that whoever doesn't remember the past will live without the future, and without the future, there's no way to leave this bill. The author is the owner of his creation and, just as any owner has the right to support himself by means of his own creation. For example, if the owner of the real estate receives a fee from the tenant for the use of the house, apartment or land, the author must receive a fee for the use of his intellectual capital, his creation. Protecting the property interests of the creator of the work is subtle and complicated, nuanced. It's true. The role of the state is to create the conditions for paying the author a fair reward for using the creation. The regulation of private copying fees, the so-called empty cassette fee, is part of this royalty. Part. Estonia has so far not followed technological developments to defend the rights of authors, so regulation needs to be modernised. In the case of private copying fees, this means directing a specified proportion of the price of the copy tool to the copyright system. This system will continue to operate without State interference. The author's representative organisations are involved in the allocation of royalties. There have been many objections to the renewal of the regulation on private copying fees in this form. One argument, for example, is that instead the state could increase or should increase direct payments to authors. I am certainly of the opinion that more financial resources should be strongly channelled into support programmes for artists, but copyright, including private copying, is not creative support; it is a reward for the use of the work. The author if the owner does not have to ask the state for mercy, wait for donations, hand over to the long. Poetically speaking, the authors live for their creations. Why, then, should they not be able to live by their creations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U432	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U433	Dear Vice-Chairman, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Indeed, this is a very pleasant draft, because it is quite symbolic that the court battle of the authors' association with the Estonian state was the final solution that no longer goes through in the past. There is no way we can change the past, the more we look to the future, so that we really have legal clarity about how we support our Estonian culture, how we ensure that it is consistent, that our own authors are motivated to contribute to culture, because who will then stand up for their authors if not us, the guardians of the Estonian state, to quote one of the previous speakers. In this sense, this is a draft, which I hope will be supported by all the political groups at third reading, and we will be able to see that it ends by the authors' association having only enough money to support the office or the system, but that the reward will reach our authors as well. So I also call for this draft to be supported, and I thank all my fellow Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U434	Thank you. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U435	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Since 2014, there has been so little private copying compensation collected in Estonia that authors, performers, phonogram producers and other rightholders have not been able to pay any compensation in substance, i.e. the amount to be distributed has been round zero. All this time, our creative people have become poorer year after year than other creators of the European Union. Only Bulgaria has been in such a bad situation compared to other European countries. In the rest of Europe, these amounts were up to EUR 3.4 per capita as of last year. For example, there was a collection of EUR 226 million in France last year, EUR 4.5 million in Lithuania, distributed among all rightholders. Estonia, however, had zero euros. The average amount of compensation to be collected in the European Union last year was EUR 1.55 per capita. The Committee on Culture has proposed amendments to the draft which modernise the charging system. These changes would put an end to a situation where creative people have for years received no reward for copying their creations. Your vote in favour would lead Estonia to be among those countries in which the creators of its country and their creations are respected. You've all received a call from the creative community. Today, more than ever, thousands of Estonian musicians, composers, actors, filmmakers, producers of phonograms and many others affected by this law will live with you while waiting for the changes to come into force. For ten years, the Riigikogu has been unable to find a solution to the issue. The pressure of lobbying organisations and the lack of courage of politicians have been left behind in order to make the change. I understand that there is a compromise solution before us today. Although the new system is not perfect, not all proposals are fully taken into account, we are nevertheless taking an important step forward. Any progress from the zero point is progress. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Although I have not been a party to this bill in this house, I have been a part of it through the press, but as a member of the audit committee of the Estonian Authors' Association, on behalf of all the creators in Estonia, I would like to warmly thank all members of the Riigikogu, both in the opposition and in the coalition, who have dealt with this subject in this house. I very much ask all of you in this Chamber to support the completion of the second reading of this draft, together with the amendments tabled by the Committee on Culture. Show that you care about the creative heritage of Estonia with love, and the contribution of Estonian artists is important to your heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U436	Thank you. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U437	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speakers have said everything I wanted to say, but there is one point I would say. Once we had the era of tape and record, and it was very simple: if a record was sold, or a sound carrier, then the author got his reward. It is no wonder, therefore, when Hendrik Sal-Saller, one of the most fertile then popular musicians in Estonia, said in an article in the late 1990s or early 2000s that a considerable part of his livelihood comes from royalties. Then the Internet age arrived and everything changed. The fact that we are here with this law today is also very signicant in the context of the current corona crisis, when performers cannot perform, but the performers and authors still need a living. If we had a functioning system, they could survive this difficult corona crisis better. Let us hope that one day they will live much better than today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U438	Thank you. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U439	Ladies and gentlemen, I am equally very pleased that we have reached the second reading of this bill, hopefully we will reach the third. After all, all the violent technical gadgets and tricks that have been designed lately would have no meaning if they had no content or content whatsoever to do with our own language and cultural space. It is therefore very important that our authors and performers, creators, receive a fair reward for their work, for their creations. I am really glad that we have finally reached the threshold of quite a finish with this awkwardly long process. Tarmo Kruusimäe thanked the people who helped to raise this issue through a bill in the previous composition. He didn't mention one person in modesty. I'll do it for him. In fact, three other friends had a fourth friend, so I think that Priit Sibul was one of the ones who started this bill the same way at the time when these things were getting stuck in the government. In this context, of course, Tarmo, I do not understand what you thanked the previous Minister of Justice for. But let him stay, let's not look back so long, let's all look forward together. I sincerely want to join in all the other words of gratitude. I would add that, apart from the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Culture, who, as the responsible rapporteur for this draft law, has certainly earned his thanks, has been very substantive and balanced in helping to reach the compromise that was reached in the committee. I think this is a very good compromise, and I think this is a good example of how Parliament will sort out something on an important issue that the government may or may not have resolved. Here Parliament clearly took the lead and did not, as it is always said, behave as a rubber stamp, but gave this matter a clear substance and the right direction. Congratulations, colleagues. We have proven that Parliament has a very important role to play in this country, once again. And the Social Democrats, of course, on two hands, support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-09_U440	Thank you. It seems that no one has more wish for negotiations, and we can review the amendments tabled on the draft. The first amendment, tabled by the Committee on Culture, is the position of the lead committee to take full account of. The second amendment, as well as the position of the commission on culture, is to take full account of it. Similarly, the third amendment, which was tabled by the Committee on Culture, the position of the lead committee is to take full account of. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, is the position of the lead committee to take part in. The fifth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, takes part in the position of the lead committee. The sixth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Fatherland, is the position of the commission in part to be taken into account. The seventh amendment tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Heidy Purga, Urmas Kruuse, Signe Kivi, Yoko Alender, Mart Võrguship, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Signe Riisalo, the position of the commission is to be taken into account in part. The eighth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Culture, takes full account of the position of the commission. The ninth amendment, as well as the position of the commission on culture, is to take full account of it. The 10th amendment, tabled by the Committee on Culture, is the position of the lead committee to take full account of. Amendment 11, as proposed by the Committee on Culture, is to take full account of the position of the lead committee. Amendment 12, tabled by the Committee on Culture, takes full account of the position of the commission. Amendment 13, tabled by the Committee on Culture, takes full account of the position of the commission. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 233. Ladies and gentlemen, the second reading is closed and today's agenda is exhausted. That concludes today's session. Thanks, everybody! See you tomorrow!
