ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday 15th working week. Members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am passing on a draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act by the Social Democratic Party. Our aim is to improve the livelihood of those who have lost their jobs and prevent them from falling into poverty. The current unemployment allowance of EUR 183 per month is below the limit of absolute poverty, below any dignified treatment. It does not allow you to live or prevent you from losing your home when you buy a loan. At the moment, more 2,000 new beneficiaries of unemployment benefit will soon emerge each month, or even 4,000. These are our people, and it is our duty to guarantee them dignity and coping. We also want to raise the minimum level of unemployment benefit so that it is not lower than the unemployment benefit, i.e. EUR 350 per month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U3	There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft law. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes this in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu "Appointing an Estonian representative to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee" submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to ask Kersti Sarapuu, member of the Monetary Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U5	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On 4 May 2020, the Monetary Commission initiated the decision to appoint a representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee, pursuant to Article 2 (3) of the Act on the ratification of the Nordic Investment Bank Agreement between Estonia, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark and Article 2 (3) of the Act on the ratification of the Payment Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Nordic Investment Bank, which states that the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee will be appointed as the representative of Estonia by decision of the Riigikogu. According to the decision of the Riigikogu, Aivar Kokk, a member of the Riigikogu, is appointed to the Audit Committee for the period from 1 June 2019 to 31 May 2020, who is also the Chairman of the Financial Committee of the Riigikogu. As regards this draft, the Committee on Finance also proposes the appointment of Aivar Kokk as a member of the NIB Audit Committee for the next period, from 1 June 2020 to 31 May 2022. No amendments were received by the deadline of 11 May at 5.15 p.m. for amendments to the draft. According to § 117 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board is discussed at one reading and the final vote should also take place today. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at its meeting on 12 May and made a consensual decision to propose to put the draft on the Riigikogu agenda by 19 May and to hold a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U6	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. There were no amendments to the draft proposal and the commission of directors' proposal for a final vote on the draft decision is 188. We are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu! I am voting on draft 188 of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint an Estonian representative to the Nordic Investment Bank Control Committee submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. 89 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no votes against or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U7	Today's second item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Announcement of the members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council of recognized experts in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting'. I would like to ask Aadu Black, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to § 14 (1) (2) of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act, the Riigikogu is responsible for the appointment of the National Broadcasting Council. This council is made up of two sides. On the one hand, all the political groups are well aware of the work of this Broadcasting Council, in so far as politicians, representatives of the parliamentary groups are involved. In addition, the legislator has provided that qualified national broadcasters should also be selected, who do not need to be associated with political parties or political groups in Parliament. The same subject has been on the table of the Committee on Culture for a long time. We knew that the term of office of one of the members would be over early. One of the members of the National Broadcasting Council left by death, and so for the first time on the Commission's desk, including on 10 February, when we decided to open a competition, make a corresponding press release and launch a process to fill these places. Initially, the deadline for submitting applications was 31 March, then however, the signals came that in the current situation where there were so many other hot topics, this deadline could be short. Other messages killed the announcement that a competition for members of the National Broadcasting Council was also in progress. At the time of the emergency, another expert, Paavo Nõgene, member of the National Broadcasting Council, resigned and therefore the election of three members of the National Broadcasting Council had to be prepared instead of the two seats originally announced. On 11 February, as the Commission had decided, we also wrote a letter to the National Broadcasting Board. Not for them to do the job for us and to name someone, but for us to be interested in how the members of the group's broadcasting council have worked so far and how they see the profiles of the vagants that have emerged. The point is that this opinion, which came from the National Broadcasting Board, was of course not binding on us, but had to help orientate where 'competence' is absolutely necessary. From there we actually got good starting points because it was shown that not only the top journalists must be present on the National Broadcasting Council, but it was stressed that there must be someone in every proper board of large organisations who has a command of finance, budgetary policy, is able to work professionally on the audit committee, etc. So that's the background we had. In previous years, too, our so-called command boards have stressed that there could be someone who knows modern media under it is meant by technology, like online media, which could be of great use to national broadcasting, and it was certainly stressed that professional preparation and degrees are expected, as is the case with many other such places. By 31 March, which was the original deadline, several people had already come to deliver their papers to us because the new message had not yet reached all of us. And it also happened that several people took their papers back at first, that we would wait until May 5th, which was the new deadline. The Committee on Culture also discussed in depth how the procedure for preparing elections or draft elections should look. One of the key points that we repeatedly discussed and requested by several candidates was that the names of candidates who did not turn out to be elected should not be made public. It's an old, well-known principle. Everyone knows that if, for example, this is an artificial example, that in a situation where three outstandingly good financialists are running, but one person is needed for the so-called financial line, some very good people are simply left unelected and are not forced to listen to the fact that they did not turn out to be elected, in front of a large audience or people. At the same time, I would like to stress that the pressure from the press was quite high, that those who are still running for office should name from which institution, either husband or wife. There was this pressure, but the members of the committee were convinced that we would not disclose other names. By the date set, 21 applications had been received by 5 May. In accordance with our decision, the Commission Secretariat first examined all the statements whether all candidates qualify. Not all those who asked for the information filed a statement. All the usual requirements of the National Broadcasting Act were checked in a way that is not or is not a representative of a competing body that is not allowed to be chosen, etc. For its part, the Commission asked all candidates to sign a corresponding declaration, in which they themselves declare that they fulfilled the requirements and sign them. That's what they've basically done. True, we also discussed and asked the lawyers what would happen if someone was not meeting the requirements at the moment or if there was some contradiction. It was made clear to us that all the contradictions with regard to those who are elected must certainly be eliminated before taking up office, otherwise the person will not be able to do the job. There was a lot of debate about the election procedure. We all remember that this was the time when we were all sitting mostly on the computer and holding meetings on the so-called teleworking schedule. The Commission quite unanimously found that this is such an important point, where there will certainly be protests afterwards. Well, think about it yourself when 21 outstanding people are running and 18 of them are not elected! Of course, they're a little upset and they want to know if there's been any violation anywhere. The selection procedure was therefore carried out... I'm sorry! After all, we decided that the election preparation meeting would be held on 7 May in the Riigikogu conference hall, where the decision will first be decided in procedural terms, the result will be the three names that will be included in the draft. In the course of the procedure, the three persons who received the highest number of votes were identified and then a procedural decision was made that the three names were specifically entered in the draft decision. In the meantime, there was also some confusion, particularly due to the very professional activities of journalists. Although we did not describe our procedures, the minutes of the meeting are known to be public, and a number of journalists read out information that was not in our press release or in our decisions. This led to the mistaken impression, and it was still asked at the next meeting, which took place after the elections, in a separate Riigikogu speech chair to stress that the press carried on a point that certainly was not stated in our press release, as if there were no votes against the elected candidates. The story that came into the minutes was a procedural decision that provided for three names to be entered in the draft. The previous selection principles were not reflected in accordance with the agreement. And a number of people who, by their sympathy, had not chosen the three presented exactly did not vote against the draft being submitted and the names entered in it, but they were slightly and rightly offended by the impression that they all unanimously chose these candidates. I was given a separate heart that the chairman of the committee must mention from the Chair of the Riigikogu that the result of the vote on the draft, where there are no votes against, is not an expression of the vote on the selection of candidates. As I mentioned, this decision also had a follow-up story on the role of journalists I was talking about, and this follow-up story is still going on. For example, there was a serious exchange of information with a number of politicians who are not leaders of parliamentary parties, but who felt that everything should be different. One of them still made it very clear that their representative should certainly be on the National Broadcasting Council, because he is a very good journalist, and the fact that he is in a political party does not take his qualifications yet. Unfortunately, I did not have the authority to praise or disprove, but I did introduce the procedure and said that there were no seats reserved for political parties, even those who did not receive Parliament. Discussions with the same party have continued since then, but their opinions have changed considerably, which should all be done differently. Finally, I will say this again, perhaps by preventing a few issues, that the issue of national broadcasting is very seriously on the agenda of the Committee on Culture. We still have a meeting in June with the heads of national broadcasting, and the constant problem has been whether and how to change national broadcasting. The requests are to change the financial bases and everything else, but they are already the subject of the next possible drafts. That's it. [[A comment from the floor.]] Viktoria very sympatheticly signals that one very important thing has not been mentioned. It is beautifully written in the draft, but indeed, as candidates for the National Broadcasting Council, the Cultural Commission presents the following experts: Peter Espak, Priit Hõbemägi and Viktor Trasberg. I'm done. I'm waiting for questions!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U9	Thank you, dear waitress. You really have a lot of questions. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, In your presentation, you mentioned that, before you announced a competition for the selection of candidates, you consulted the ERR Board on the competences needed to find out which competences are needed in the Council. And before the Commission, you have also given an interview to the ERR, where you have said that the three new members of the Council could each cover one particular area: one would know the new media and IT, the other would know the finances, and the third could be familiar with the content of the press. Would you please describe the candidates selected in the Commission for which area? Are you satisfied with this choice? Did you get good candidates who meet your expectations that everyone is an expert in a particular field? And can these candidates confirm with peace of mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U11	All of you have been communicating with journalists and you know that if you say 66 sentences, for example, six of them will be chosen, which will certainly not open the whole. In an interview with journalists, I have told them that they are background descriptions and recommendations that are neither obligatory nor of a directive nature. The Commission does not have to vote exactly so that one or the other can fit into this box. It's an ideal, it's a direction to pursue. And secondly, I also said in my brief presentation that whenever, for example, there are 21 very well-known people in the selection, there are certainly a large number of those who would also have been suitable, but for one reason or another, it was not elected. I have also said that by looking critically at the whole candidate pack, you could have said even so that you take and throw the dice to select three random candidates, and you will not get a very bad council. But the main answer to your question is that we can exchange a lot of ideas and that is what we all have, but this particular question was not discussed by the Commission as to whether or not I like these candidates.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U12	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, As a member of the Committee on Culture, I am not asking at all about the procedure, but I am asking about the interview given to the Estonian National Broadcasting on 7 May, where you very nicely explained how the whole procedure took place in the Committee on Culture. I heard you say you had to shake the ashes on your head. This somehow led to the feeling that the Committee on Culture was still satisfied with such a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U14	Well, look, this debate is going a little bit into belletricity. The context I had in mind at the time was that I've never been a male chauvinist, I've always liked women. And personally, I was sorry that some good woman didn't turn out to be elected, but I'm not naming their names because we agreed not to name names.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U15	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U16	Austet President! Good waitress! According to the law, members of the National Broadcasting Board, these experts, must be recognised experts in the field of national broadcasting. Please explain, describe to the Riigikogu and also to the general public of Estonia how Peter Espak is a recognised expert in the field of national broadcasting. It would be very exciting to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U17	I understand the background to the question, about Peter Espak, I've been asking for different opinions. First of all, it is a very sympathetic point for me and for you, for everyone who is highly educated, when a person has a doctorate. It's a recognition some just can't reach. But in addition to that, another very sympathetic fact in his case is that I, for example, like Aadu Black, but if there are ten people next to that face, then it gets a lot, the richer the richer the diversity he is, that Peter Espak, in his media research, in his social studies, is quite distinctive, and I think that such a person, coupled with academic education, is more enriching than debilitating for the broadcasting council. That there are discussions and that he's been discussing social issues, well, we always argue. I've said many times that disputes will only end when we're in the cemetery and there's dirt in our mouths. There's a lot of debate going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U18	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U19	Thank you. Good waitress! It is nice to hear that there were other very good candidates to whom you personally held your fingers, but when we look at the voting minutes, your vote is precisely behind the candidates you brought on this table, so that this personal sympathy was practically of no use or of no use in this case. But my question is about something else. The question is that your coalition partner, Martin Helme, is known for translating the coalition's actual plans into a language that the public understands, and he said about this decision that it was long ago time to blackmail common sense into the ERR. And in the past, he has also said that the ERR journalists who demonstrated bias should be taken off the air. In that light, I'm getting worried. Do you realize what you are now doing, and do you understand the need for the ERR to be independent of any government?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U20	Yes, I do. I have been following the work of the Riigikogu for more than ten years. I've seen these blackmails for a long time, and I've seen handwriting change one way or the other. So, of course, there are changes in the world. As far as Mr Helme is concerned, it is indeed belletristika. I've had different contacts with Martin Helme. He used to be my student, but I'm not responsible for his political career. And now that you say that Martin Helme shaped the coalition's opinion, maybe he formed the opinion of some people, he didn't shape my opinion. Sometimes the costaires have also indicated that his candidate was Espak. I looked at what Espak has written about EKRE. There was a rumor earlier that he'd been sharp about the bastards. He has also said quite keenly and sharply about the EKRE, and he has said that he does not like some very radical sayings. So what you want to talk about Martin Helme, you need to talk to him. I have not spoken to him in this decision. You always know more than I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U21	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U22	Chairman of the Committee on Culture! I, too, am a member of the Committee on Culture, and therefore I can assure you that not only in the press, but also at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, there has been talk that experts should represent three areas. One is the economy, and I understand that Trasberg has it. Someone from the new members should be a media expert, Mr. Silver Mountain, clear. Consequently, the new area of media and cross-media, which you have repeatedly emphasised in the Commission's sitting, will be left over. Perhaps you will describe Mr Espak's competence be told so much about here in the light of new media and cross-media or, for example, the New News portal in the light, if it is his competence?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U23	Thank you. In fact, it is so that it can best be described by the Members of the Commission themselves, especially those aspects that excite you. We were based on the fact that all the candidates submitted their motivation letters, which were at times very thorough and where the person sees the mission of national broadcasting. Espak's motivation letter was meaningful. That's the first answer. Now, second of all, that very relief is described in three areas. In describing these three areas, it has always been said that they are recommended to us, that I have always emphasised. And the second point is that, if you look at our press release, I don't have it at hand right now, you might want to look up this package, then there are actually two areas that have been highlighted. There's such a small puddle room left. Quite as dogmatic as you just described, dear Katri, it doesn't say.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U24	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U25	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said in your report that a lot of good people came to get their papers, I think 21 people. I don't want to know the names, but just expand the subject a little bit. You didn't throw the dice, you carefully considered and looked at the motivation letters. Take, for example, a budget specialist, there was a place like this. I don't know how many of them, as you said, were outstandingly good financial candidates running, there were three of them, that number went through what you were saying, or there were 21 of them, probably a lot of them. But what were their shortcomings? We'll take the candidate who was elected to this budget specialist. What were the shortcomings of the other candidates, why were they left out? Was it insufficient knowledge of fiscal policy or was it about degrees or work experience? What were the circumstances in which the other candidates were worse than those who were elected as budget specialists?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U26	Thank you. The question is perfectly understandable, but the answer is quite difficult, for purely technical reasons. Firstly, we did not ask every hitchhiker what criteria he voted on. It was as it often is in the Riigikogu that the hitchhiker gives his vote and does not start talking about the fact that this is a good thing and that it is a bad thing. On the basis of the personal impression, I can say that there were several good financial experts, but we looked at it in a complex way. For example, in the case of Trasberg in particular, knowledge of the work of very good national broadcasting, a contemporary piece of work in this system, was also added to his financial background. A very good financial specialist, who initially had my preference in some ways, became fatal in my eyes. It was like, well, if you need me, I can come. But it's not a motivation, even if you're a very good financialist.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U27	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U28	Thank you. Good waitress! I read the Estonian National Broadcasting Act and it says that the Council is formed from good experts in the field of national broadcasting. I am also reading this decision and it has also mentioned the field of activity of national broadcasting. Neither Sumerology nor Accounting appear to have been taken into account in this area of activity. For accounting purposes, the ERR will certainly have its own department, an internal auditor, who will check and Sumerology will not get into programmes very often. Please tell me how you found that the personal choice you are presenting to the Riigikogu is in accordance with the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U29	Roles change, I've ever asked you something relatively similar. But that's got nothing to do with this right now. Sumerology is out of context in this case. If someone knows one exotic field in addition to their main job, it is not a minus, but rather a plus. Sumerology was certainly not a weight language, but Espak's work at the Institute of Social Studies, his analyst's work, and above all those opinions which he has presented between Sumerology is a great thing, but we can talk about it separately in some other company.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U30	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U31	Mr President of the Commission. BBC is known to be the world flagship of public service broadcasting. Estonia has also learned quite a lot from it and, fortunately, there have been opportunities for doing so. Have any of these BBC standards reached, for example, the broadcasting council's selection system? I'm just asking to widen my horizons.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U32	I have to admit, we really didn't discuss the BBC issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U33	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U34	Thank you. Good Aadu! I'm pretty mixed up in the process that went on there. I'm asking you, Aadu, aren't you embarrassed? We get 21 candidates, and then we do or you make some kind of political choice. I know that we also discussed in our group which candidates could be supported, and there was always this saying and the thought that he must under no circumstances be politically involved, involved with us, involved with anyone else. He must be non-political. It was all this talk, but you're gonna go and put on a dull face with your former party mates, because of your political views, you're gonna prefer someone. And even if a member of the Committee on Culture, Viktoria Ladjandskaya, acts like a canary in a mine and tells you that something is very wrong, even then you will not back down your decision and go on that road. You're sending Siser to this committee, who certainly isn't...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U35	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U36	...canary. I'm asking if you're embarrassed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U37	I am embarrassed to hear the question of more belletism than the substance of the matter. I don't know. I didn't send Ladynskaer. You have such accurate data, which in part goes into Futurology or Sumerology.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U38	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U39	Good manager! Good waitress! I ask how you discussed the issue of conflict of interest. Certainly, Mr Hõbemäe's competence and expertise are not a question; they are all beautifully present. But he's still working on Kuku Radio. He's told me he's not gonna pay for this job. For me, the question is whether doing such a job without money involves, in your eyes, a conflict of interest when you discussed it in the committee or not. Let me give you an example. Take, for example, one person who is on Bank A's board and then goes to Bank B's council and says that since he does not receive a fee from Bank B, he does not have a conflict of interest. How broad were you discussing the issue of conflict of interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U40	We discussed this both at the Commission meeting and in the context of the Commission's external work. And the arguments that we went through were similar to what you just said, to the fact that a person says that as long as he's a member of the council, he won't take the price. It is not always the only benefit that one or the other's position offers, too, that thought went through. After consulting the lawyer, I informed the Commission and took the courage to call the candidate, otherwise it will be said that God knows what the agreement is. Luckily, the election was over by then. But I informed Silver Hill that, listen, you have declared to us that you do not have a conflict of interest, and I also informed him that if it appears that there is a contradiction when he takes office, it has not been removed, he will be reduced. His answer was that he was very well aware of it. Somewhere it's been said he's been keeping something quiet. He gave a reference to where he wrote in the paper, where he had or didn't have a participation. He has been informed that, from the moment he was appointed, it would be a serious infringement if he had not complied with any of the requirements, which would lead to compulsory retirement. That's what we've been talking about, yeah. That's right. But I didn't have the authority to say that we're pulling you down right now because we think there's something out there. Well, we don't have that competence to just cross people off.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U41	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U42	Thank you. I'll actually take it from there. Normally, if there is a competition and there are some assumptions that the candidate must meet and if the candidate does not meet these assumptions, it will be disqualified before the selection. He can't be chosen. § 15 of the Estonian National Broadcasting Act states who cannot be a member of the Supervisory Board, and paragraph 1 (4) states that he cannot be in contractual relations with any media service provider. It's not a question of whether he gets the money for it or not. Secondly, point 5 states that a member of the supervisory board may not be a shareholder, shareholder or member of a media service provider. So, in fact, people like that should be disqualified right away, you can't choose between them at all. Who should make this choice if you say that the Commission cannot disqualify these people if they do not meet the conditions of a member of the Council that are prescribed by law? Who controls the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U43	Mr Hõbemägi has made a declaration in which he claims that he does not have a conflict with the requirements of the law. He has been specifically informed that, should any such manifestation occur, he is twice as guilty of both misreporting and violation of the law, and in that case he has indeed been recalled. It's always been like this. I'm not answering any more than you asked. I will not further develop this subject, but once again I would argue that Silver Mountain has been informed and has declared it. In the opinion of the lawyer, it is necessary to check immediately after his entry into office whether a conflict or infringement is still real or not. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U44	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U45	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! By supplementing the previous questioner, at least what was read out in advance suggests, in fact, that he should not be elected because he works in another media channel. But your role today is clearly to prove that the Commission was impartial, he tried to show that these candidates are politically independent, so you must speak black white here in front of us. I very much hope that you will not take this role so seriously that at some point you will be speaking Black White, because we already have one White in the Riigikogu. But I was surprised by your dice. If you had thrown the dice, the independence of their members would probably have been greater and probably a woman would have been elected. But try to explain to me how Viktor Trasberg, who was nominated for Riigikogu elections in your party, is an independent expert. Tell me, if I'm wrong, did he apply to the Riigikogu on the Central Party list?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U46	Everyone's got a story behind them. Trasberg is an independent thinker, and his independent thinking has led to a conflict with the Centre Party that has led him out of it. So in that sense, he's definitely not a party soldier. But as a specialist, he's pretty good.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U47	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U48	Thank you. Honourable waitress! According to publicly available information, Priit Hõbemägi owns Estonian Express shares, thousands of pieces. As of last night, he owned them. To what extent is ethical and consistent with the idea of the law that, under your leadership, the Riigikogu is now proposed to appoint a person who is a shareholder of a competing media group? How ethical is that consistent with the meaning of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U49	I am on this issue, as far as it has been discussed and discussed in the Commission, several times and said that follow-up is necessary. The declaration by Priit Hõbemäe, which he has signed, claims that it was information available to us, that he is not in conflict with the law. It really needs to be checked, I agree with that. But, as they say, we are not an investigative body and, therefore, we lacked the competence to assess all aspects that we do not know.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U50	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. In fact, it is a public secret that the coalition agreed that each coalition partner would become a candidate for the National Broadcasting Council. If you don't confirm it, and I don't think you're gonna do it, then at least I hope you don't deny it. That's one side of it. The other part of the case for me is that this kind of behaviour squirts open competitions as such. You mentioned there were 21 candidates, but those 18 who didn't turn out to be elected were actually very dignified candidates. It was a completely pointless application. Why are we taking such competitions and acting like this? Well, then, the courage to say that we have candidates, and let the others not run! And your talk about the women you were talking about at the beginning was very sympathetic, but I'd like you to confirm it with your actions. Do you really confirm that there were no women among those 21 candidates on whose behalf you would have been willing to vote? And second of all, I'm asking if you've apologized to Victoria.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U52	It is usually said that each question is characterised by a slightly questionable object, but rather more by the questioner himself. Therefore, it was quite interesting to listen to these questions and to follow them, there was a whole bunch of questions here. I reply in this way that people with experience in the Riigikogu know very well that everyone wants to make very good decisions, but at times we do not have to choose between very good and very bad, but we have to choose the best of the existing and real ideals, not the best of the ideals, but those that can be realised. And if it happens that I have sympathy, but it remains only my sympathy, and I see that it is a responsible spit or something else, then I will not start when I see that I cannot reach consensus. So it is indeed such a collective process. As for Viktoria, yes, we've been arguing with Viktoria several times, and I've had to apologize, but it doesn't concern the time you want to marry me. We have not had a conflict with Viktoria in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U53	Ladies and gentlemen, Each member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask the rapporteur an oral question during the processing of this item. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U54	Aadu Black, Chairman of the Committee on Culture! I really hope you give me a specific and honest 'Yes' or 'No' answer. On the morning of May 7, Thursday, did you know in advance the outcome of the competition announced by the Committee on Culture, stressing the competition for the positions of renowned professionals in the field of activity of the ERR? Maybe you knew in advance who was going to be elected. If the answer is 'Yes', then there was no competition!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U55	I respect that fact of knowing what else you were thinking and what was your grandmother's shoe size. I didn't know the outcome. I assumed and hoped for a few options, but that I would have known, it really wasn't. I didn't have the assurance that this was going to happen, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U56	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U57	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! My question concerns the procedure. Indeed, the Commission's protocol and press release provided an opportunity for different interpretations. Unfortunately, and this was known ex-post, unlike all the other Commission meetings, this process was not recorded, which would actually have provided an opportunity to clarify both the protocol and the press release. Does this experience enable us to learn from the experience of us who are members of the Commission and you who are the chairman of the committee? If the Committee on Culture were to hold the next person elections after a while, what could you, as chairman of the committee and as members of our Committee on Culture, do differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U58	It's a generalized question again, is there anything to learn? That's why I'm so young, I've learned my life and I'm still studying. Every positive and, by the way, also negative experience is always worth analyzing. As for the specific story that somewhere in the procedure there were very large scissors, these scissors appeared after some people had understood the interpretation of the media in such a way that they were specifically awarded support for selected candidates. That was what came on the agenda after the procedures had long been carried out and were normally carried out. As for the fact that perhaps there was something quite wrong, I would stress that, in fact, be honest and admit it, too, we discussed the procedure from the point of view through the previous meeting. On a point-by-point basis, the staff member of the secretariat read before the voting procedure, which was followed by a step, and exactly the same points we acted on. And I would point out once again that the fact that things can be interpreted differently revealed only when the national broadcasting had submitted its interpretation, which was sometimes the analysis of journalists, rather than the factology we presented.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U59	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U60	Thank you. I have a question, but it doesn't apply to any person. I understand that as the legislator of the Riigikogu, the people themselves are the first examples of law enforcement. In quite a number of responses you have said to your colleagues today that yes, indeed, when persons take office, an ex-post check must be carried out. However, the law clearly states exclusionary circumstances, which are, in fact, ex ante controls. In my opinion, you have not done this ex ante verification at the moment, both in terms of the shareholder role and in terms of being in a contractual relationship with another media company. My question is actually very simple: how did you come to such a decision that you are breaking the law and ignoring these points? And how do you put the Riigikogu in such a role now that we should support this earlier violation of the law in the setting of these candidates?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U61	Thank you. We're getting back to the same thing, actually, it's now the sixth double. I say once again that we have before us the documents that we have requested and which have been presented to us. One important one is the declaration by Mr Hõbemäe, in which he, by his signature, confirms that there is no contradiction in his case. This is the basis on which we proceed. That's how it's been.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U62	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U63	Thank you. Dear waitress, I, too, agree on this issue, which has just been raised here, that if anyone has an obligation to check on these candidates, it is the committee that proposes it to the Riigikogu. It has now become clear that you have not carried out this check and have simply been based on signed papers. It is now known that Mr Hõbemäe has shares in the Estonian Express. We know this is a violation. Okay, I couldn't make it before, or there was nothing I could do. But if the Riigikogu supports your proposal today and these shares have not been sold tomorrow evening, will you come and propose to change the composition of the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U64	I mean, yeah, we talked to the lawyer about the deadline by which everything has to be absolutely clean as a spectacle stone is May 27th, the day of confirmation. By then, everything has to be done. It's been discussed. But when you talk about recalling a Member of the Commission, it was very incomprehensible. What member of the Committee on Culture do you want to recall? I didn't understand that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U65	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U66	Thank you. I don't want to discuss some kind of personality, but I feel very uncomfortable about this procedure. If we choose impartial, apolitical, renowned professionals, but politicians make this choice, then it is inevitably already embodied in such duplicity. Do you not think that in the future these members should not be appointed at all by the Committee on Culture and the Riigikogu? To this end, there must be a special collection, so that specialists are chosen by specialists, impartial. I'm in a very uncomfortable situation right now, I can't press any buttons right now. I can't press red because I'm a colleague, and I can't press green because I don't agree with it in my heart. I'd like to hear about your reaction procedure. Do you feel a little uncomfortable too?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U67	Apparently, the big, serious questions you've just raised should be discussed. They would be interesting to discuss with you, of course, in a much longer and broader context. Some great thinkers have once said that every elected person has a little of his or her voter's face, that goes for Parliament, that goes for different Soviets. It has also been said that each assessment, each opinion, is characterised by an object to be assessed on the one hand, but rather by a more evaluator himself. So really, everything has two parts, two sides. I'm not quoting who the big thinkers are about to say that, but maybe we both know that. So there's a problem. But as long as the law exists, the law will be applied, and if the law does not like, the Riigikogu will have the opportunity to initiate an amendment to the law. Indeed, in June we have a proposal for national broadcasting, in which they consider that their law should be vigorously amended. It is true that they are looking primarily at the financing scheme, not so much at the procedure for electing the council, but I do not rule out that the law on national broadcasting can come to this Chamber of the Riigikogu in full. And it will be a good thing if everyone has these thoughts, protests and inconsistencies in mind what has arisen today in connection with national broadcasting. If it's found that everything has to be done differently, then it's done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U68	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U69	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Aadu! I'm sorry about you, baby. You're gonna have to earn your salary right now. The coalition has put you in office, and now is the moment you earn that salary there. But my question is completely different. If Mr Hõbemägi made his request to the Commission, it would have been extremely fair if he had written on the first line there right away that he currently owns shares in the Express Group and works for the second company. But as I understand it, he didn't report it to the Committee on Culture. How ethical is it that he hid it and let the Committee on Culture make a decision blindly, or did the Commission itself find out that it had such things? How ethical was that, Mr. Silver Hill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U70	There were several questions, but I'm starting from the very beginning. First of all, the clue to earning my salary is insulting to me, because I think I have worked quite tensely and tried to make the best choices that I can make, and to make sure that Estonia still follows the path of success and not of loss. If you have other opinions, we can argue about this and start throwing arguments at who works or doesn't work well anywhere. So that's one. And I am not only answering the Silver Mountain question because the question has been asked four times, and I do not want to answer the same question the fourth time, because a new answer to this question I simply do not have is only what I have already said.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U71	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm asking for a very brief answer. In your opinion, were the candidates who were not elected and excluded all worse than those currently proposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U73	Thanks for the provocation! We do not classify people as good, better, or better. We're talking about who fits where or not. There was once a great discussion in Estonian society about whether better or worse Estonians fled abroad. We talked about the appropriateness of this context, and in this respect we tried to find a reasonable solution, the best of the existing ones. Surely there are people who, because of one, another, third, or fifth quality, are in some ways better than the chosen ones than we use the word, we begin to classify people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U74	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U75	Thank you very much. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Culture! My question goes indirectly in the same direction as before. In fact, you said in your speech that there were 21 candidates in total and three of them were elected. Since the rest have not been made public, we are essentially voting like a pig in a bag, this decision must be made by the Riigikogu from a completely so-called trust basis. Now I have the question: why not them and why not the others? Your speech gave the impression that you are not entirely satisfied with this choice. What message or recommendation do you personally give for this vote? I understand that the Commission has decided that it is these people who should be suitable. But would it have been more appropriate?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U76	We have repeatedly seen here in the Riigikogu that when a committee waitress comes to the remote, sometimes he is resented when he says on the question that it was not discussed in the committee. It is his duty to speak what was discussed in the Commission. My soul life, or what I think or do not think, is not the point on today's agenda. But in an attempt to be impartial, I say that the three names that gathered the work of the Commission were also included in the Bulletin in favour of the procedure. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U77	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U78	Good manager! Good waitress! I have been looking at national broadcasting with concern for a long time, and I do not think he is often impartial. Now I ask you, as chairman of the Committee on Culture, if you think the ERR is tilted. If so, which way? And is the Council, which we are currently supplementing with three members, even able to touch on the content of the ERR, or is it, above all, merely approving the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U79	Thank you. These issues have also occasionally been covered by the discussions of the Committee on Culture on how impartial one or the other national institution is or how biased or under whose influence it is, etc. The general principle, which I know, and which I believe, is that the Council does not shape the so-called repertoire policy, does not choose soundtracks or even does not select performers. It's an executive and editorial thing. So is he tilted or is he good? I'm not too big for a TV viewer or a radio listener and sometimes, I confess, listen or I'd rather watch some other country's channel, but it's already going into the world of personal thoughts. I can't confirm or disprove anything here. The National Broadcasting Council has specific activities and does not include a repertoire policy, at least not directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U80	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U81	Thank you very much. Good waitress! Despite the massive and sometimes very low-level round of questions that you have now faced, I ask you the following question: what is your inner feeling, whether the new composition of the Broadcasting Council will be able to comply with the broadcasting law better and more carefully than has been done so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U82	Sure, because if there's three wanks in the council, it's like he's missing three teeth and he can't chew anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U83	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U84	Thank you. Mr Pulpland: already children have said that whoever gives the name to the other bears it. But Mr Espak writes in his letter of motivation that the ERR Council must be less politically biased today. My question is this: does Espak with his membership guarantee this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U85	Since we now went to children's proverbs and fairy tales, let it be said that children's fairy tales have one hundred-headed dragon or many-headed dragons. I have the feeling that the danger of Espak coming and tilting the National Broadcasting Council, oh, for God's sake! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Valdo's going away, but he would have asked if Espak could really cross Valdo on the council. You know, it's the kind of collective body that designs its own agreements and makes its own decisions. They are not made alone by Espak, not by Trasberg, not by Valdo Randpere, but by reasonable agreements must still be reached in everything. And so far, it seems to have been relatively successful in national broadcasting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U86	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U87	Good President! Mr President of the Commission. My question now and in the future concerns the organisation of competitions for which experts from the field are invited. What kind of coincidence do you consider, and how do you explain the fact that all three elected candidates received the same number of votes as the coalition ambassadors were voting?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U88	I'm enjoying your intellectual analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U89	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U90	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, good Aadu! I had the honour of being a member of the Committee on Culture under your leadership in the previous composition, and it seemed to me that the discussions on working culture were very good under your leadership, and the decisions were mostly reasonable. Here's the question. Now that the appointment of experts on national broadcasting has become such a trade in sausage, I read in the paper that no one was opposed to these candidates, nor did the opposition. After that, it turned out that a press release had been crushed or written in such a way and that the meeting had not been properly recorded or recorded. I was really surprised. This is not the Committee on Culture that I felt. Do you agree that you have now become a tool for the coalition of cultural deprivation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U91	I liked this question in itself, all its so-called artistic forms and also its shoulder pat. Unfortunately, as I said before, as long as the law is in force, it must be complied with. And the fact that every person, every hitchhiker, is looking for this motivation or combing this legal space and trying to do his or her will as well as the lawroom allows is inevitable. The rules of procedure were discussed repeatedly in the Commission, and the members of the Commission can confirm that, even before the procedure was launched on 7 May, the secretariat staff member read them out in depth and with a calm voice and that they were suitable for everyone. Now, this question, which is the sound of some sort of cultural indiscretion, and it is said that there were press releases somewhere, and something gave the wrong impression. The press release was quite narrow and laconic, and the dissonance was able to be created when more material was incorporated, which was in the so-called public protocol. We didn't reflect the selection procedure. There was an agreement that we wouldn't write down that one has one more diploma or something like that. No one in the Commission protested against this, and in this situation it was considered rather normal, just as it is. Once again, I do not know how much the Riigikogu has to deal with such executive and operational matters. There's been a lot of things here. There have been agencies that have ever been wanted to be elected in the Riigikogu, then it has again been found that some experts choose. There have been major failures both ways when systems are not balanced. But the answer is very simple: if the system allows information noise imbalances and wrong decisions, then it is up to the legislator to review the regulation in order for it to work. And today, too, there have been many times in this debate that if we do not like the system, we will look at the system. I cannot answer all the questions here in the Riigikogu so deeply, but I have looked with interest at a large number of files containing the notes I have made about what happened in the Riigikogu, and it is interesting to see how big role-playing is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U92	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U93	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I wouldn't have wanted to ask you a question, but if you're being insulted several times in front of everyone here, I'm sorry. As a member of the Committee on Culture, I can assure you that you have been very respectful of all the participants in this process, both those who applied and those who had to make a choice. I saw at the meeting that no rules of procedure were broken. We've been read the exact procedure on how it works. And since the Committee on Culture has been given the mandate to choose three candidates in this case and 18 are excluded, it is a pity that so much is being twisted around it. I also liked the comment made by Helir-Valdor Seeder, sitting behind you, which he made the same day, saying that it is insulting to all candidates to question the fact that these three people are unfit and the other 18 are better. I thank you for all the procedure you went through. And there is also the question: Priit Hõbemägi owns a thousand shares of the Estonian Express, which is a newspaper, does it have any connection to the ERR, which is known for radio and television?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U94	Now we're going to a deep lawn in which I don't think I'm qualified. I will not dissect who is or is not a competitor and how the media world is divided between the influence groups. But thanks for the good word! Silver Mountain, as I said, has been informed that he must also make sure that he does not have any violations of the law. Otherwise, he couldn't hold the job, that's what we were talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U95	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! You've been pecked here and there today, and you've been miscarried. You have been accused of seven deadly sins and have even come to such humiliating questions that you have earned your salary. My question is relatively specific. Have you received any complaints from the Commission that you have broken the rules of procedure? And if it isn't, I think we could stop whacking you here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U97	Thank you. I have not been sued. But at the same time, it is all natural because, with the long-term monitoring of the work of the Riigikogu, I can say that the opposition has always tried to do its job according to its own abilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U98	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President of the Commission. I have not been able to participate as a member of the Committee on Culture, because social democrats have always had other professionals in culture and education to send there to the Commission. However, I was able to work with you for four years as a minister, and I really commend you for this cooperation and for the constructive and substantive approach that the Commission had in its discussions on the issues. But when we come to the ERR Council, it has been said before that what is written in the law can be tempting. And now we see that this is it. We have a situation where three experts know that they are politically appointed, because it is clear that this is a political agreement. And by adding three more people named by the coalition, 2/3 of the votes are at hand, which means that the chairman may be replaced at any time when a political agreement has been concluded. Let's hope that doesn't happen. But isn't your heart concerned about what kind of signal we are actually sending to society if we want to say that the ERR is politically independent and is led by independent experts?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U100	Thank you for your good words. I agree with you, and I hope that the extreme scenarios you outlined will not come true. That's one. And secondly, when you ask me about my soul life, I say that there are at least 66 things that my heart aches about that I have written in Parliament's work. One of them is that the role of national broadcasting should be fulfilled in such a way that the entire Estonian people can benefit from it as much as possible from it, but not from entanglement.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U101	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U102	Thank you. Good waitress! I commend you for remaining calm in answering these malicious questions of the opposition. The Committee on Culture made a very good choice; all the chosen persons are very worthy. But maybe you will explain to the opposition that following the will of the majority is democracy, and if the elected candidates do not like the opposition, they will not make couples of these very excellent people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U103	I am grateful to the Riigikogu! I've seen all kinds of hustling and cruelty here, and especially the arrogance, where there's the view that, oh, I know, and you don't come to ask at all. Especially four or five years ago, I remember that high wave. But I am grateful to the Riigikogu today for the minimal disapproval of elected candidates. Luckily, no one said they were real criminals and villains or anything like that. Some bad things have been tried to find, but it's pretty common in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U104	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U105	Good vice chairman! Good waitress! I was just prompted to ask the last two questions. Maybe they're even worrying, but not too much. The former Minister of Culture praised the cooperation, but it did not make sense to say that this was now the case. So where was he like before? But this, of course, must be asked by the former Minister of Culture. I still think it's a better sparrow in his hand than a pigeon on the roof. What organs did he mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U106	That question wasn't for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U107	Thank you. Signe Kivi, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U108	Yeah, it's a procedural question. I would like to clarify the reply of the chairman of the committee to the question of the member of the Riigikogu as to whether there were later complaints and whether there are any notes about them. No, there are no complaints, but I added to the minutes my disagreement about the part of the procedure concerning recording, press release and protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U109	Thank you for this addition. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U110	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U111	Do the political groups want to open negotiations? On behalf of the Heidy Purga Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U112	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that all those elected to the Board of Broadcasting should know in depth such terms as Kriimõe, SD, parallel transmission, provi, etc., or should be able to tell in their sleep how much it costs to be free on the ERR a year or what the state budget allocations have been with the salary numbers of ERR employees, or what the biggest challenges of linear television are and how the ERR has dealt with them. I think that the broadcasting council and national broadcasting deserve even more, above all, people with strong expertise in this important and at the same time very specific field, who are able to manage to maintain and protect the focus of one of the pillars of internal security and are politically independent, because the Broadcasting Act, as you know, allows the representatives of the political groups represented in the Riigikogu to sit at the table of the Broadcasting Council. What's with all the double-crossing? These criteria were met by quite a number of candidates who had set up their candidacy as an election procedure at the meeting of the Committee on Culture on 7 May. The competence of these people in public media governance, the future of the media organisation and the financial world was certainly stronger than, perhaps, some elected candidates whose earlier statements have not cast doubt on their political bias. The first surprise in this election procedure was undoubtedly the replacement of Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubitsa before the vote. I have heard Sven Sester speak before about much else, but not so much about national broadcasting, the recent challenges of media organisations or the new European Union directives. The way forward was the worst example of politics in recent times, the election of candidates, which took advantage of the position of strength, personal relationships, hand-pased mentality, and of their faithful disciples in a position of political independence and professional expertise. That's too bad! Finally, a quote from a post by Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubitsa, where she says: 'Last weeks show that it is important to be at the 'pump' instead. If you're in opposition, you're talking about parliamentary values, but if you take power, it's like you're going over parliamentary customs. The recent list of this is harsh, because this is how we gradually give pieces of our rule of law. But how can we not do that? First of all, of course, the fact that people in Parliament do not give up the super opportunity to think with their own heads. It's so convenient to be a headless rider. Somewhere in the 'coalition Council' is reported: 'This change is necessary' you go and vote. ' All in all, however, in these processes, the responsibility of each ERR employee for making a good programme, good press, is more important than any politically biased candidate in the broadcasting council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U113	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Independent public broadcasting is not just one institution among others; it is one of the most important cornerstones of Estonian democracy. We don't think about that in general. I don't think it's because so far the ERR has been able to do its job well. If he can no longer do so at one point, we will certainly know much more about it, but there is probably already a great deal of damage, and whether it can be improved is already a matter of its own. I'm a member of the National Broadcasting Council. I've only been here a year, and some of my colleagues have been here a while longer. But in the last year, as Taavi Rõivas rightly said, it has indeed been so that Mart Helme translates to us what is happening, what is happening, and what is happening every day, at the Council level, it has also been discussed. This will be done in such a way that, although the ERR Council has no right to interfere with the programming process, it is possible to force journalists into self-censorship. And if the board isn't strong enough to protect its journalists, it's gonna happen. For example, my colleague, Mr Reitelmann, who is also a member of the National Broadcasting Council, writes letters to journalists every few weeks about how he is not satisfied with the way in which he or some other coalition politician is on the news. For example, he has written that 'left extreme revolutionary intolerance cannot be the basis for working in the ERR'. This is the position of the Council member expressed within the organisation. However, so far, the board has defended its journalists, although not always robust enough, but most of the Council, thanks to the three people now no longer there, has managed to lead the board in the direction that its journalists must be protected and the political programme must not be allowed to intervene. There aren't three people there anymore. It is now clear that those who have been proposed today are actually proposed as the political deal of the coalition, and that this means that the ERR Council, after this decision, is in principle controlled by today's coalition of government. This is, of course, a clear message to today's leadership. If you do things the government doesn't like, we can take you down at every hearing. The kind of self-censorship it's going to have is something we can still see, but the danger is actually very, very big. And such a decision, of course, should not be made. I'll have some more time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U115	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U116	And now a couple of more specific things. Since the chairman of the committee spoke for a very long time about what God knows, but did not talk about what is important, that is, what these candidates have told the Commission, i.e. the Riigikogu, in what way they see their own role, and because unfortunately these documents are not public, even though the application to the Public Broadcasting Council could be a much more public process than it is, but for that reason, I will read to you, ladies and gentlemen, a little bit in advance. Peter Espak's motivation letter. He later said he'd throw dirt in there somewhere and he didn't know exactly what he was going to do. In particular, the person says that he sees the use of greater diversity and balance of sources as a more important focus and focus on less political bias. He states clearly that this is the role he sees as an important focus in the ERR Council, of course, in a situation where the members of the Council do not actually intervene in the programme. There is no doubt that Mr Espak has a very diverse competence in many areas, but no one, even he himself, denies that he is very ideological. However, the role of expert experts should be completely different. It is, to put it mildly, questionable whether such a person, who is very highly ideological, fits in with those members who have actually been elected as political representatives, as active politicians of political parties. This angle already exists and the real role of experts should be to balance the political representatives that the political parties of the Riigikogu appoint there. Now Mr. Silver Mountain. I don't know a man, but I read the papers. We can see that the National Broadcasting Act says that a member of the Supervisory Board must not be a shareholder of the media service provider. Mr. Silver Mountain has a thousand shares of the Express Group. He's a former editor-in-chief of the Estonian Express, so why not, right? In this situation, however, the person himself signs the paper that he or she does not have exclusive circumstances and does not inform the Riigikogu that he or she has a thousand shares of Express. This came out after the voting procedure was carried out. What does it say about the ethical fitness of a human being? In this office, where is the important fact being concealed? Legally, Mr Black did not want to open this fact, but according to the law, the media service provider is indeed a radio and television programme provider. Since the Express Group does not directly have a radio and television program, it is not like it is a competing media house. However, we are in a situation where, in fact, even in the ERR, the biggest increase in users in recent years has become a part of a portal that is clearly and directly competing with Express Media Portals. And Ekspress Media itself is developing all kinds of media content that is already more in circulation than classical journalism. The competing media group, the person is its shareholder, and today the Committee on Culture has proposed that the competitor's shareholder be appointed to the National Broadcasting Council. Well, how is that possible? How is it possible that we are even voting on such a thing here? That is a purely formal question. If the Committee on Culture says that they do not deal with such matters, what is the role of the Committee on Culture in this situation? And just for those who know this discussion, they will also know what kind of connotations Mr. Silvermäe's motivational statement says that the ERR should not be a private media competitor. Shouldn't be a private media competition! What this means for various budgetary decisions in the ERR Council, former and today's members of the ERR Council, are certain to know. This proposal is certainly a clear attempt to bring the independent ERR under the control of the government in a very robust and brutal way. The impact on democracy in Estonia is unpredictable today, but it is probably rather poor. And, Mr Lotman, you press the red button in complete peace of heart, because even if you think you should not have the right to vote against it today, in a situation where a bad proposal has been put before you, and according to the law you have the right to do so, you still have to press red according to your conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U117	Thank you. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, you are entitled to reply because your name has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U118	I want to take this opportunity. The National Broadcasting Act provides that the ERR Board is composed of members of the Riigikogu and recognised experts in the field of national broadcasting. On the proposal of the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu, four experts are appointed by the Riigikogu from among the recognised experts of the field of activity of the ERR. That's what the law says. The representatives of the political groups will rather be appointed by the group itself, but a call for competition will be launched to find recognised experts. The competition, as has been the case, was announced by the Committee on Culture. However, as several politicians have confirmed, including via the media, political agreement was reached on the choice of experts. This means that there was no competition in essence. Instead, there was a political appointment, and the rest of the experts, the participants in the competition, no matter how good they were, were just background players. I'm ignoring subjective assessments of experts, I'm talking about objective things. There has been no competition, I stress that this is my opinion, not the opinion of the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U119	Thank you. Helle-Moonika Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, 5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today in this Chamber, we decide what will be the face and future of the new Estonian National Broadcasting Council of all our joint media company. The Committee on Culture has selected three out of 21 very dignified and expert candidates and has submitted them to your approval today. On the one hand, it is quite understandable that if we had such a number of good candidates on the table in the Commission, whatever this option will eventually be, it will be accompanied by both consent and dissatisfaction. We have heard dissatisfaction from those who did not find the candidate to be elected and from those who have painted a ghost of political bias on their wall and are now trying to convince the public, in their fears, that something unprecedented or unwelcome is going to happen in national broadcasting, and who has blown up accusations of political motivation for this decision. It's all completely incomprehensible and it's all completely unfounded. At this point, it is quite worth recalling what kind of stories of fear and horror were produced by our opposition and the media also in connection with the emergency situation that ended yesterday in this very Chamber. In the last two months, we have heard how the emergency situation will be extended indefinitely, how some dictatorship will immediately come, how people will forever be deprived of their fundamental rights, how the Constitution will cease to function, how borders will no longer be opened, people will be deprived of their right to travel, etc. All of this has proved to be a complete lie. And now we are hearing new stories about how the new members of the ERR Council are tilting the ideological heels of our national broadcasting and muzzle the free press. Peace, good fellow citizens, peace! It will take some time and it turns out that this whole thing will turn out to be just as propaganda and wrong as we heard in the event of an emergency and, in fact, we have heard all the time when the current government has acted. But a few words about the candidates. Suddenly, Priit Hõbemägi, who worked throughout his life in journalism, who really knows the media, is not suitable for disgruntled critics. The other two are also not suitable, even though they both work at the University of Tartu and are specialists in their field. They don't fit either! However, if we compare them with the members of the ERR board that has left the seat vacant, the substitution is actually almost perfect. Paavo Nõges, whose specificity was obviously economic, is replaced by economist Viktor Trasberg. The early deceased Agu Uudeleppa, who was a media expert, will replace Priit Hõbemägi and Pille Pruulmann-Vengerfeldt, whose strength was the specialist in media surveys, will take up a PhD by Peeter Espak, with social studies and Norstat's experience, who, by the way, has received his doctorate at the age of 31. Ladies and gentlemen, do it or pay for it and then come and criticize it! It is also ridiculous that the new members of the ERR Council may have some kind of world view. It is as if previous members had no view of the world, and it is as if it were something criminal or deplorable. Does anyone really want to say that all previous ERR councils have been free from politicism and worldview? All those who drop charges on the politicisation of the current ERR Council should read the Broadcasting Act. This has already been quoted here today, but I quote again: 'The Riigikogu appoints members of the Broadcasting Council from among its members on a political balance basis on a proposal from the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu. ' In other words, the principle that the Council is politically balanced, i.e. that it has all the different world views, is enshrined in the law. And I assure you that the addition of these three experts to the ERR Council will not in any way tilt the ERR Council, but instead balance and add valuable expertise, even one that has perhaps been somewhat lacking so far. At this point, I am pleased that, for these three candidates, MEPs were able to reach a compromise and an agreement between those who were able to. The art and capacity of finding agreements and consensus is one of the most important elements of parliamentary democracy, by the way. By the way, it has never been a complaint from the National Conservatory that one or the other party gets too little or too much ether. We have always talked about the values and perceptions on which a journalistic programme is being made. It has been well called the base consensus. In worse cases, of course, it can also be biased, and sometimes, let us be honest, it has happened. This consensus lies, among other things, in which subjects are spoken and in which key or how these topics are spoken. Tilt often lies in what is not mentioned. But I quote once again the statute of the ERR, according to which the tasks of Estonian Radio and Estonian Television are to promote and promote Estonian national culture and create diverse and balanced programmes, as well as the programmes and programmes of Estonian Radio and Estonian Television must contribute to the preservation and development of Estonian nation, language and culture, to strengthening Estonian statehood and to raising Estonia's international reputation. I am absolutely certain that all three dignified experts selected by the Committee on Culture from among the other equally dignified candidates will perform these tasks in a balanced and impartial manner. And if it has happened that the ERR has been somehow tilted somewhere in the meantime, they're going to help push it straight again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U121	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Marko Šorin Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U122	Good President! Good guys in the hall! The debate on the candidates for the members of the ERR Board has been intellectually interesting. Practically everyone in the hall asked questions, which means that we all care about this question. After all, the ERR is our national television and radio, from which we draw our knowledge of the world and our daily life. The complaints about whether a candidate has shares in one company or another are also interesting. The Media Services Act states that the media service provider is a legal or natural person providing a television, on-demand audiovisual media or radio service which has editorial responsibility for the choice of the content of the media service and which determines the order in which it is to be presented and the manner in which it is to be transmitted. Express Group is not a media service provider. If there is a fear that the ERR and Express Group will suddenly compete with each other in the future, a legislative amendment should be initiated against this fear. In this case, the Committee on Culture has followed the law and mandate given to the Committee on Culture in a very concrete and even extremely precise manner, to select the right people from among the candidates and to select as many as there are seats in the Council, in this case three. Interestingly, some of the questioners knew exactly how someone voted. I, being a member of the Committee on Culture and one of the voters, know only my own votes for the three people I gave them to. But as they say, there are ears on the walls and there are other things on the ceilings. Perhaps someone really knows how the vote was voted, but during the elections no one protested that the election procedure had been violated or that the candidates had not been suitable. Yes, the discussion of the person mentioned here also took place during the election procedure, but the background check showed that these circumstances were not relevant. And now that this candidate is under the glass of the Riigikogu, it will have to make sure that he doesn't go against anything in the future. If anyone in this Chamber thinks that this law is no longer relevant, start a legislative amendment. But in this case, as a member of the Committee on Culture, I believe that the Committee on Culture has complied with the law and with the mandate given to it by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U123	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 189 on the draft, and we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu! I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Appointing the members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council of recognized experts in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting', tabled by the Committee on Culture, draft 189. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 39 members opposed, with no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U124	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the draft 'Foreign Policy Development Plan 2030' presented by the Government of the Republic. Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu to waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U125	Dear Riigikogu! The task of the foreign policy of the Republic of Estonia is to realise the potential of all policy areas in international relations in order to ensure the comprehensive protection of Estonian national interests. The general objective of our foreign policy is, firstly, the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages and the security of independence and independence of the Republic of Estonia in international relations; secondly, the increase in prosperity in Estonia and the protection of the interests of the Estonian community abroad; and thirdly, Estonia's growing contribution to global sustainable development. The general objective will be implemented with the support of three key policy platforms: firstly, security and stability and sustainable development of international relations; secondly, the development of the external economy; and thirdly, supporting the Estonian community abroad. This is the first time that such a comprehensive foreign policy development plan has been drawn up, and for the first time the Minister of Foreign Affairs will introduce long-term foreign policy goals to the Riigikogu. The central point of the development plan is to better involve the sectoral activities of the country as a whole in the pursuit of foreign policy objectives, to set targets in a sectoral way and to plan resources. The development plan is long targeted: ten years. I consider it important that the implementation of the development plan is subject to annual reviews by Parliament. The development plan gives us principles and methods for shaping foreign policy. Specific current policy options in international relations are not included in the development plan. To give an introduction to today's debate, I would like to thank all the cooperation partners, especially the Committee on Foreign Affairs and other committees, for their meaningful discussions and proposals in the preparation of Estonia's foreign policy development plan. It has been a long and necessary journey. The development plan for foreign policy is supported by the External Action Service and our diplomats to ensure that in 2030 we can recognise that Estonia's security in a rapidly changing world is guaranteed; Estonia is known, listened to and trusted; Estonian entrepreneurs are doing well abroad and foreign investments are growing; Estonia is always close to Estonians abroad thanks to comfortable public services. Nothing illustrates the importance of international cooperation more than the current corona crisis. This crisis has also been exceptional for our External Action Service. I would like to thank our diplomats, governments of other countries and diplomats who have assisted our country and our citizens for their commitment during the corona crisis. Our interest today is to restore the opportunities for cross-border movement of people so that it is safe for people, to continue providing comprehensive consular assistance and to support wider international cooperation and mitigate the negative effects of the crisis. It was on the proposal of Estonia that the United Nations Security Council discussed the corona crisis. The global COVID-19 pandemic, which has been unleashed in recent months, which is now a lasting and uncertain future, has a major impact on the foreign policy of countries around the world. I have introduced to the government and communicated to the Committee on Foreign Affairs the current view of the international processes and the risks involved as a result of the corona crisis. It is also necessary to introduce subsequent changes to the external policy development plan. At the same time, the foreign policy development plan and the foreign policy objectives, principles and methods of our national interest do not fundamentally change the current crisis. The pandemic has created a deep global crisis, and in dragging it down, we must bear in mind the serious consequences not only for health and the economy, but also for security. We are already seeing the impact of the crisis, which is reflected, among other things, in the global rivalry of dealing with the pandemic, the pressure on social and health systems, the impact on trust and cooperation between countries. We are also witnessing the long-term effects of the crisis, including negative economic effects, structural changes in the economy, competition in the development of medicines and vaccines, as well as the growing role of cooperation in research and development. The development plan sets out Estonia's foreign policy interests and activities for the next decade. And while the current crisis has not changed these objectives, we must look to the future to take into account the evolving processes that guide our foreign and security policy decisions. We have taken into account in the development plan that global crises are increasing, and that is why more attention and resources are needed to protect our interests through international communication. Our activities will continue to focus on allied relations and cooperation in the European Union and NATO, as well as in international organisations such as the United Nations. Strong transatlantic relations and Nordic-Baltic cooperation remain the focus. It is important to be more influential in foreign policy than our mechanical specifics would expect. To this end, new initiatives must be developed on the initiative of Estonia, such as the three-sea initiative between Central and Eastern European countries. Next year, on my proposal, there will be a meeting of the foreign ministers of the nine countries of the eastern wing of NATO in Tallinn. Estonia contributes to the alliance on religious freedom initiated by the United Kingdom and to the activities of the Press Freedom Alliance. The important thing is to protect the truth. Whatever ideologies and theorists say, the truth exists, and so does international communication. In stressful and critical situations, the need to be alert to the dissemination of false information and to act skillfully against hybrid attacks and hostile propaganda is increasing. The development plan points to the need to influence Russia to abandon its aggressive policies. In view of geopolitical developments, our foreign policy is increasingly influenced by relations with China, whose share and activity in the world has grown rapidly. Against the background of the prevailing situation, a clear awareness of national interests and long-term planning of activities are necessary in order to implement foreign policy interests in a rapidly changing environment. Foreign policy is not just a response, but we work daily to ensure the security of Estonia, create more opportunities for Estonian entrepreneurs in foreign markets and strongly support countries and nations in their efforts to be free and strengthen the image of Estonia. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! In cooperation with experts in the fields, we charted the general trends that will be most important for Estonia in the next decade. When shaping foreign policy action, we must take into account that the pressure continues on the Western way of life, based on democracy, the market economy, human rights and the rule of law. Pressures in international relations are increasing. Security threats will become more diverse, hybrid threats and pandemic threats will increase. It can be assumed that most conflicts start within countries, but they can become international. The world's economic and industrial dynamics are changing. The population of the Western world is declining, while the population of the whole world is growing rapidly. The pressure of migration is increasing. In addition, the environment in which we live is under increasing pressure. This is caused by global population growth, consumption growth, increased use of natural resources and climate change. As a result of these changes, Estonia's future will be shaped by our foreign policy decisions today and tomorrow. During the foreign policy debate a few months ago, I emphasised that Estonia's foreign policy priority is and will remain a global, regional and, above all, Estonian national security. The aim of Estonia's security policy is to prevent threats and respond flexibly to them when security threats occur. Our actions are aimed at ensuring that, in ten years' time, we can recognise that regional security is certain, that Estonia's presence and influence in the world has increased, and that the Estonian people have reason to support the basic foreign policy directions, including our membership of organisations that are just like us. We consider it important to maintain and strengthen a world-wide regime based on rules and international law. We are working to ensure a Euro-Atlantic security regime that is indivisible. This means that NATO is the cornerstone of security and collective defence in the Euro-Atlantic region, and defence cooperation within the European Union means NATO collective defence, not competing with it. Transatlantic unity and the military presence of the United States in Europe have successfully contributed to peace and stability in the free part of our continent for over 70 years, in Estonia for over 15 years. Despite differences of opinion, European and US security issues have strong allies and its continuation is our central goal. Competition or confrontation on any individual issue must not be carried over into disbelief in a wider sense and turned into a deceptive idea that their collective security can be ensured separately from each other. It is in Estonia's interest to have a functioning and strong European Union. We prefer the development of the European Union within the framework of the current Treaties. In bilateral relations, we strengthen allies and partnerships, strengthen regional cooperation and promote good neighbourly relations with all neighbours. We are also looking for new ways of working together with other centres of power in the world, sticking to our values. Our cross-cutting objective is comprehensive and in-depth cooperation with the United States. Our security concerns developments in Europe's eastern and southern neighbourhood and beyond. Estonia follows the principle that by ensuring global security and supporting sustainable development, we also strengthen our own security. One way to do this is to address problems in the countries of origin through development cooperation. In the light of future developments, the importance of such action will continue to grow. The Estonian proverb says: 'Honest name is more expensive than gold. " For us as a small country, good reputation and reputation are a greater fortune than we are for countries that are larger and more powerful than us. Good reputation and influence serve not only our economy but also our security. We have set the goal that Estonia will be known, listened to, trusted. Estonia has something to share with the world and in which we could set an example, be it our strong education system, cyber and digital issues, for example. In the development plan and relevant action plans, we make concrete proposals on how to continue to pay attention to Estonia's demonstration in Europe and the wider world and to be a reliable partner in the European Union and NATO and as a elected member of the Security Council. In this role, we ourselves call for discussions on the world's acute security issues. Estonia is known and appreciated in the world. A positive example of this was the first event of the Security Council Presidency to discuss the end of World War II in Europe and today's security threats in Europe. There, an unprecedented number of states and foreign ministers participated in the history of the Security Council, and this event, the largest international celebration of the end of World War II, was also a move to distort Russia's history. From the outside economy. In the second direction of the development plan, we plan steps to increase Estonia's share of world trade, strengthen Estonia's competitiveness and increase the volume of export and foreign investment in a sustainable manner. We can do this in good cooperation with business, ensuring the best business environment through legislative and executive powers. I recognise that we can do more to support Estonia's good exporters and to involve new foreign investments. Especially in a situation where the economy is already affected by a pandemic. At a time when there is great uncertainty on foreign markets, the state needs to provide more support for businesses to open up foreign markets. That is why we have taken concrete steps and are planning to further enhance our ambition. The government has set itself and is working to ensure that all major economic partners have the necessary contractual basis for export and investment. We have speeded up the timetable for concluding double taxation agreements based on the interests of our companies. We also ensure that the interests of Estonian companies are protected in the negotiations for free trade and investment. It is the country's job to support entrepreneurs entering foreign markets, especially at the end of the pandemic, when the current rules may no longer apply. We work closely with Estonian exporters to do this, especially in remote markets where the help of the state in opening doors is particularly important. The interest of companies in distant markets has increased, especially in Asia and Africa. In Africa, we can also see ways of strengthening further economic cooperation. We have already started activities to ensure that companies have the support of an economic diploma or an external representative of EAS when operating in all important export markets and entering new markets. This means that we will increase the number of business and investor advisors providing direct support to businesses and open up additional foreign representation in new markets. We are also considering other appropriate measures. Increasing the capacity of economic diplomacy is a long-term return for the state. Economic diplomats are set clear and measurable objectives in the performance of their tasks and are accounted for. We find opportunities for foreign investment to grow, and at the same time we stand for security and economic interests to be balanced. In the third but no less important course of action of the development plan, we have planned specific activities to provide consular services in a way that suits the digital state, to make ourselves so that Estonian citizens can travel visa-free to more countries, and to ensure that the people of Estonia are even more informed passengers and travel information can reach them quickly. The aim is also to ensure that Estonia has a strong link with its foreign compatriots and that they are more involved in our society. The Constitution provides that the State also protects its citizens abroad. This is what we have stood for in every way, and we want to do it even more vigorously in the future. The state not only protects its citizens but also provides them with public services wherever they are. Thanks to digital solutions, Estonian people's communication with the country is generally best organised in comparison with the countries of the world. But all the more reason to think that when we issue passports and ID cards, we still do things the old way, physically handing them over to the embassy. Several European Union countries have this activity organised by post. We have set out that hundreds or thousands of kilometres are no longer required to travel to apply for and receive an Estonian passport, but that the service is provided in a way that suits the digital state. The issue of passports to Estonian citizens living abroad was the case in times of emergency. We used the possibility of issuing passports via a secure postal service provider, with more than 500 passports sent from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to citizens. Estonian citizenship is worth a lot, our citizens can travel to 179 countries without a visa. We are working to ensure that the number of countries and regions to which we can travel visa-free continues to increase. The people of Estonia are generally aware of passengers, and despite the increase in travel, the number of cases of consular assistance has not increased significantly in normal circumstances. However, during the corona virus, the need for more operational information and information exchange has clearly emerged. Due to the pandemic, crisis communication and assistance to citizens have taken place 24/7, and Estonians have needed and received help in every corner of the world. Within two months, 10000 inquiries were answered, in particular related to the movement restrictions and disrupted transport connections. Thousands of Estonian people were helped home. To this end, special flights were brokered, extraordinary connections were established, a large number of evidence were issued for transiting through transit areas, assistance was requested and cooperation was carried out with other countries. The consular department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue to advise those in need so that the last citizens who have remained abroad can return safely to their homeland. It has been very good, in cooperation with the Estonian honorary consuls and the private sector, to solve this crisis precisely for the third sector and businesses. In view of the future, solutions must be found for the communication of crisis to Estonians on their journey, which would enable information to be communicated more quickly and effectively to as many people as possible in the crisis area. We did this now as a pilot project, for example, for Estonian people in Finland, we provided information via SMS. People entering the border now also receive SMS notifications. This is an issue that we would like to develop strongly. Special attention is given to the external Estonian community. In this regard, it is important to stress that, in addition to people who define themselves as Estonians, we are also thinking about all the estophysics, our friends from all over the world, many of whom have been accompanying us on our journey since the restoration of independence, but many have come up in the coming years with new initiatives such as e-residency. The government is preparing a global Estonian programme to ensure Estonia's even stronger connection with its community abroad. Good Riigikogu! As I pointed out in the introduction, a professional and dedicated External Action Service is a prerequisite for achieving all foreign policy goals. The greatest asset of the foreign service is our people. In order to develop the external service, it is important to move forward with the revised External Action Service Act, which is currently being processed in the Riigikogu. The reach of Estonian foreign representations is wider than ever before. This is an important achievement. At the same time, we cannot stop here because, at times, the network of Estonian foreign representations has been physically depreciated and is not in line with the needs of the External Action Service. We must take into account the growing need for international communication, the changing nature of communication, and our businesses and people are operating around the world, and it is the duty of the state to ensure that people's interests are protected. We have set out in the development plan steps to strengthen the network of foreign representations, because it is important for a small country to be visible and audible. We must be innovative, resourceful, proactive and analytical in this regard. For example, it means innovative open areas of representation with our embassies in cooperation with businesses, greater openness of the External Action Service, more analysis and knowledge-based sectoral policy-making. Nearly 200 good Estonian honorary consuls are an integral part of the Estonian network of foreign representations, who work voluntarily every day to represent the interests of Estonia and our people in the best way possible. We have proposed a number of changes in order to further improve this cooperation. As I pointed out in the introduction, we have worked closely with Riigikogu committees and various associations to prepare the development plan. We will carefully consider the additional proposals received and introduce them into the development plan in an appropriate manner. A separate block of amendments, as I have referred to, forms the conclusions resulting from the current crisis. I mentioned activities in the prevention of global crises, operational cooperation and the tightening of geopolitical confrontations. The proposals, which are too detailed to be included in the development plan, can be taken into account when drawing up further implementation programmes and action plans for the development plan. The development plan is the result of the joint work of many parties. Therefore, I dare say that this is precisely the development plan of Estonian foreign policy, not the document of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or Government. It is also important to stress that this is not just a development plan for the current government. With its principles, its methods, its goals, it must serve our people for a long time, in ten years. And, according to the need, I am convinced that it must be considered as a living document, and that it will also be corrected, as life and changed circumstances require. Thank you all very much for your time and proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U126	Thank you, Minister. The following questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U127	Good manager! Good minister! The document has been written a long time ago, but in the meantime, the world has been plagued by corona for two months and people have died and become ill. However, economies have suffered a great deal. And now I'm going to ask you this. It is nice, of course, that all of this is for the first time, but how seriously must we take that many things here are stable in terms of support for NATO and the European Union, the return rate for foreign Estonians is 2.5% and the turnout rate of 9%, but, for example, the assumption that our share of world trade will rise 1.4 times and development aid twice? It seems particularly funny that the number of exporters is so accurately recorded: there must be 2436 exporters by 2023 and 3948 by 2030. If things have changed so capitulatedly, why do we come up with so specific numbers? Isn't that a little funny?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U128	Thank you. Everything needs to be measured and made measurable when things are immeasurable. This is such a prerequisite for modern science due to "light." But more seriously, indeed, a good questioner turned out to be what the Committee on Foreign Affairs also drew attention to from a different perspective. Are our goals ambitious enough, or will we not rather remain on the existing level in certain areas? I also gave feedback to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as we know, the procedure for processing such documents is such that the document goes back to government from the point of view of the input received from Parliament, there will be new coordination. But we're planning an increase in the level of ambition on certain metrics. For example, the objective of Estonia's presence and influence in the world is to grow it according to the Elcano model. We would like to raise this target because, as I said, we want to be more powerful in the world than our parameters expect. This is our ambition, because it is our additional security manufacturer. Now, as far as we are concerned, whether we will be able to increase our share of global trade according to WTO figures, that is undoubtedly our aim. In the current crisis, however, a good questioner pointed precisely to very practical leadership. Our proposal is to remove this measure from the perspective of the future of the coming years in the current circumstances, so it is quite rightly mentioned. As far as specific metrics are concerned, the electoral activity of the Estonian people is one parameter that characterises our relationship with people living outside Estonia. It is one of the indicators that characterises how people perceive their connection with Estonia. In the case of these meters, we have assumed that they should remain the same. Now, are these meters sufficient? We actually measure very different things. As I said, we have tried to make a lot of things measurable in order to understand how we are moving towards realising the general objectives. And I guess those meters are all conventional. I fully agree that foreign policy can be measured, these metrics can be constructed, just as in economics and social sciences some quantitative assessments can be constructed, but the conclusions are still based on what our subjectively set goals in national politics. If the questioner pointed out that perhaps we should say in principle that this foreign policy development plan, in its central design, needs to be taken apart and put together from scratch in connection with the corona crisis, that is a negative answer. We actually discussed this very seriously. The logic is that foreign policy is to serve us all over the ages. There are stormy times ahead. We've come through certain storms. We see and anticipate great storms, but we must also act in these storms. We must have this modus operandi, we must have an understanding of how we tire our sails, use our strength as much as possible. With minimal force to achieve the maximum result of was based on judo philosophy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U129	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U130	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! These are certainly very important issues. My questions concern the block of the external economy in this strategy. The COVID-19 crisis has certainly only exacerbated competition between world countries to attract workers and investment. You have a number of important focussed here. It is very good that you are talking not only about promoting and supporting your companies but also about attracting foreign investment and increasing tourism in Estonia. But I would have liked to have seen a little more specific activities. For example, what are you doing to make Estonia an internationally attractive living and working environment? And when we talk about goals, what is the reason why we have to keep our labour productivity at 80%? And what is our real objective in terms of direct investment growth: is it 21 billion each year or is it 21 billion, the current level, and we do not really want more direct investment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U131	Thank you for such very important points of view. As regards Estonia as a good living environment, a reasonable living environment, people offering greater added value are undoubtedly welcome in Estonia. Our sustainable migration policy also provides for the principle that they are certainly welcome here. In this respect, I think that the general level of prosperity that governs Estonia actually motivates it. Let's just say that, in reality, the prerequisite is for foreign workers to be able to come here, of course, that there is also sufficient volume of investment here, that these people have an application. This is a real assumption, or at least a logic that goes hand in hand with it. The current metrics have been drawn up in very serious cooperation with experts from the EAS and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Indeed, we have foreseen that the increase in labour productivity from baseline would be in the ten-year perspective or, rather, a dozen years if taken from the initial year 2018, 75% to 80% measured by Eurostat. We must understand clearly that this is not an absolute criterion, as we could take per capita in nominal terms, such as a person's income in euro. This is a relative criterion. In fact, we must expect other European countries to move forward in terms of productivity growth in their labour force. However, our aim is for labour productivity to increase compared to other countries in the European Union. The EU averages are certainly also conditional. All of the parameters are characteristic of conditionality. The United Kingdom, for example, left the Union. I think that our labour productivity figures are likely to improve compared to perhaps some Mediterranean and Eastern European countries. It's inevitable that such connections will occur, isn't it? If the European Union were to expand, this would automatically lead to an increase in our relative percentage of labour productivity. But now this increase in direct investment. Indeed, the source of this measure has been assessed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In fact, we have remained at our current level. Here, too, Parliament's debate states the need to set higher ambitions and I have always listened attentively and prepared to contribute. We will certainly also consult with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, because they have recorded these metrics as an objective. It's all, like I said, put together by several agencies. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have its own economic policy which does not relate to the understanding of the authority responsible for national economic activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U132	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U133	Dear Minister, This great development plan, which you have presented here in a flying manner, is also going to cost a lot of money. Its financial cost has been treated in a very hilly way as a small table in Annex 6. You yourself recognise that the share of expenditure is in a worrying downward trend. As we know, the government failed to implement the country's fiscal strategy in April and the previous strategy is no longer in force. The Minister of Finance has promised to prepare the strategy in the autumn, but the Minister of Finance has promised all sorts of things. He said he'd stop Rail Baltic and build all the roads in the PPP. Look, it could be a stormy time in the fall, just like you said. The pandemic may return and the RES may be delayed in the autumn, or it will be made in some form paper. In fact, this whole development plan is like a cashless and clay-legged development plan. Do you acknowledge that there is no financial cover for this development plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U134	No, I won't admit it. However, when it comes to making a national budget strategy, it must be said that the failure to do so was a rational decision. In this turbulence environment where we have been located, it is simply impractical to set up virtual expectations. In fact, the Republic of Estonia did exactly the same in the last financial crisis. The solution chosen at the time was that the country's budget strategy was made, but the Ansip government did it, I remember, without numbers. There was a narrative, there was a text about the country's goals. It was understandable that this was the case in the environment at the time. Of course, the current circumstances are that international financial institutions and our own credit institutions, as market participants, broadly predict the long-term nature of the crisis in relation to the spread of the virus. In predicting this interruption, it is undoubtedly a very high hypothetical or a so-called deviant coefficient inside, we all understand that. You're asking if there's a cover on the plans. The cover of plans always depends on political will. You have to be honest with me. I could write in here saying that there is a cover for the plans, but the political will of the state can still be realised by the government's policies. We have ambition, we have an understanding of the estimated cost of this ambition. If I look at this leap in operational expenditure resources that took place this year, it has to be said that it is a historic leap in peacetime. I don't know about the time of Päts, I have no knowledge, but in the freed Estonia, this was the largest operating cost leap in percentage. The money that was directed to the development of diplomacy in the foreign economy, the money that was directed over a period of time to actually go through the salary increase at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' headquarters, the money that was directed to open new offices, I think, are all reasonable decisions. This allows me to claim that the foreign policy ambition of this government is high. Naturally, in the stormy times of the economic environment, the state will review all its costs and make decisions on its surface. We live in reality, we do not live in virtuality, and from this, all rights and financial obligations, including those enshrined in existing laws, must actually be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U135	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This document contains future trends affecting the field of foreign policy. There are seven points here, and one of them is that the world's lines of power are changing and national competition is intensifying, that new regions are emerging in every area and that this can change the established foreign and security policy lines. And Estonia must take these changes into account. In this regard, I would ask you to mention the three most important foreign policy changes in this regard. And maybe you'll start with the relations between Estonia and China. In the last two months China's influence on the world, it seems to me, has increased. Maybe I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U137	Thank you. I'd say not. That's very correct. The determination or definition of China on the basis of China's political approach has begun, and it concerns the values-based military and economic alliances to which we belong, the European Union and NATO. There is no doubt about that. The issue of China will be discussed at meetings of NATO Foreign Ministers and at meetings of the Foreign Ministers of the European Union. China's issues are being discussed and, for the first time under the German Presidency, a summit will be held with representatives of the Chinese State with the participation of the Heads of State or Government of all the Member States. It's this summer or autumn. Now, once again, I stress that Estonia certainly does not treat China as a security risk in isolation, as in some way bilaterally. Not at all! There are certainly many areas where entrepreneurs cooperate. But undoubtedly China's very strong emergence, especially during the last financial crisis, and interference in world affairs with global reach means a change in balance. And that will inevitably lead to geopolitical tension. This certainly also means that the value-based blocs of which we are members must take into account how to defend our rights in security, economic and other aspects of world politics. Last week I had a long conversation with the Chinese Foreign Minister. We touched on a wide range of topics. But it is clear that we define ourselves as part of these blocs, as one of these countries, we are involved in shaping the Chinese policy of these blocs. And certainly our principles are also values policy principles concerning human rights issues relating to the functioning of countries. There's no way we're denying them. I think China has proved to be very right, but there is also another broader trend that relates to the change in the proportion of the gross domestic product of the countries of the world. It is also linked to changes in the structure of the population, which are taking place, let us say, outside the transatlantic space. I mean Asia, Oceania and Africa. This will undoubtedly lead to changes in the balance of power and greater competition in resource management, and certainly to a real test of our way of life when different geopolitical problems arise. The third trend that I would like to highlight relates to cooperation between the Atlantic and the countries of the Western way of life. I am not just talking about countries that are directly around the Atlantic. Rather, the meaning of this way of life is philosophical or cultural, and cooperation between these countries is important; the search for their identity is important. We see that this cooperation is working in these societies, and the way in which the strategic partnership of these countries and its future are addressed is a very vital discussion. One thing is how this is expressed in the pragmatic interests of countries to cooperate, but it is certainly also a determinative fact that we must bear in mind as a growing trend. This cannot be perceived by day x or by year x. It is, in fact, a dynamic that develops over a longer period of time, half the human race or the human generation. This is a discussion about the eternal question of where we are going and who we want to be and how we can stay that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U138	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U139	Thank you. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, In your speech, you also reflected the very important basic postulate in the foreign policy development plan, that for Estonia, from the point of view of our next decade, the success of our allies, our partners are working together, how the allied space that is important to us remains united, and how the solidarity that holds and strengthens our European identity in the European Union will be maintained or strengthened. Yesterday, in my opinion, was literally a revolutionary day in the history of the European Union. The German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, has made a significant upside-down on the issue of the European Union's common debt mechanism or the creation of debt as a whole. Its aim is to ensure that the idea of a united Europe is preserved and strengthened. I'm asking for your judgment. How do you view this proposal, and what could Estonia's reply be? Estonia must also approve or reject this proposal, its initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U140	Thank you. It is not unusual in the history of the European Union that these countries take the initiative in the central choices, as well as in the pivotal moments. True, in the past, perhaps this group of countries has been wider, and these choices have been shaped in consultation between them. Has it been a quadruple or a five? But, obviously, at the moment, this driving force was inevitably a conflicting situation created by the concept of the Mediterranean countries, particularly Italy. In their view, the European Union has been incompetent with its decisions. Now the question of what has been going on so far. Estonia has been modest in taking on these commitments. We can read here that this Hanseatic Club, which is formed, we have been consistently members of it. I believe that this is also largely linked to our understanding of responsible finance and its organisation, based on the understanding that in reality, somebody is paying off these debts. As a pyramid scheme, it is not possible to manage the so-called financial phenomenon in a sustainable way, no matter how large the cover. It's been, let's say, over the knees of our starting point. As far as this particular proposal is concerned, the honest answer is that the Estonian Government has so far supported the agreement at European Union level on how to emerge from the crisis through these financing schemes. An agreement has been reached on these. As far as the initiative taken by Germany and France yesterday is concerned, taking the initiative as a phenomenon is welcome in the current crisis, but specifically on this package, our government has not formed a position.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U141	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! The development plan points out that the impact of populism on Western societies, unity and solidarity is increasing. And when I read it for the first time, I must admit, I was surprised that one of your coalition partners did not think that the wording might have been somewhat unsuccessful towards them. But it was such a rhetorical remark. Here's my question. If the general objective of our foreign policy is the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture, then which country's Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be looked at by those Estonian citizens who are not Estonian? So who's gonna represent them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U143	Thank you. Estonian citizens whose native language is not Estonian and whose national identity is culturally non-Estonian nationality, of course, the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs protects all our citizens. There is no doubt about that. I mean, a nation state is not an exclusive phenomenon in our society. You will descend into the logic of propaganda once used by the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs that there is ethnic democracy. There's no such thing. Our nation state means that the Estonian state has a unique duty of care to the Estonian people and to humanity to ensure the preservation of the Estonian people, to guarantee Estonian culture, to ensure the preservation of Estonian identity. And it doesn't even stand up for money, even for a cent, for a penny to other nations, it doesn't mean in any way suppressing other nations or identities. That's completely wrong logic. Of course, we must resist populism. And I want to warn you that there have been a lot of misinformation operations during this crisis. The European Union and NATO have been called upon to block misinformation operations. I read, and the good questioner also pointed out that I had been seeing Jaak Aab at the airport to pick up crack masks. A very serious statement of information that was put forward in the ERR article as a fact. I addressed the Minister of Public Administration with a completely formal question as to whether it is true that Hansapost's company has delivered us crack masks. He assured us that this was not true at all. You'd better not be spreading false information. In this time of crisis, false information is frailing communication space and making us more fragile. On the contrary, we must be stronger, more united as a nation, and then we will actually come out of this soup with a smile and confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U144	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U145	Thank you. I agree with you, Urmas, that you must not spread false information. Now, I'm hoping you can explain to us a few things that maybe are a little crazy. In my opinion, the activities of our government have recently been relatively harali: foreign policy issues have somehow become internal politics and vice versa. The decision to close the border was probably made by Jüri Ratas, Mart Helme, who sent the cavalry regiment and defence allies to the Latvian border and even caught a few borderbreakers. I hope you can share medals for that. You, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, were suddenly sent to discuss the opening of the Schengen internal borders. I understand that the Estonian Minister of the Interior cannot be sent to Finland to talk about opening borders, because the Finnish Government has insulted him; they do not want to talk to him. Here's my question. What do you think of this last initiative when the Minister for Economic Affairs suddenly announced that Estonia should not be allowed to fly to certain destinations? Did he discuss it with you? Or what do you think about the fact that you must not fly from Estonia to certain destinations? Is it legally competent and is it really pretty smart in the field? I do not think it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U146	Thank you. On the evening of 12 March, a state of emergency was announced, and then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had the task of submitting a daily list of dangerous states, approved by the government or by this crisis committee as a list. There was a situation in which the country gave a clear warning that there should not be a spread of the virus. The first day we put this list together at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it was confirmed, there were about 15 countries. On the second day, we saw that there were already over 30 countries. We also analysed the so-called threat indicators of foreign ministries in other countries. We were careful and came to the conclusion that, given the dynamics of how the virus spreads and how other countries close their borders, we actually do not have an alternative. The decision can be one and clear: the spread of the virus by slices cannot be meaningful. As we've seen, he's rolling, though, in different phases, in a big way, all over the globe. And that was actually a recommendation from the State Department. It was Saturday, he was 14 or 21, I don't remember, but relatively soon after the state of emergency, we decided to close the border. I would point out that, of course, the border was not closed to Estonian people, Estonian residents or Estonian citizens, but to other incoming people, taking into account the exceptions. Now we are in a situation where we have to scroll and, without a doubt, this is more complicated given the circumstances of public health, and it is more difficult to unwind this serpentine backwards. As far as flights are concerned, I think I'm putting it in a different context. What remains to be said here is that the Minister for Economic Affairs, as an obsession or obsession, says that only one place can be flown and no other place can be. First of all, this starting point, when we in the European Union, but perhaps even on the globe, uniquely created this Baltic bubble, was actually that we have total trust between the three Baltic States. We have an exchange of information. Of course, all countries are sovereign in making their decisions, but our request is to seek as much consensus as possible on international transport corridors, the opening of borders and the lifting of quarantines. This is the starting point, this is actually the method of trust. We're starting to move gradually. Similarly, the issue of airlines was actually under discussion by the foreign ministers. Foreign ministers referred this issue to the Ministers of Economic Affairs, three Baltic Ministers of Economic Affairs. The foreign ministers' own request to the health ministers of the three Baltic countries was to set criteria for public health, on the basis of which we are talking about opening up airlines. I agree that it can always be said that if one or the other route is opened, the risk of transmission of the virus can be eliminated. This is like all these measures: whether the cinema is open or the cinema is closed, whether there are masks or no masks. But, in fact, I would also like to stress that the logic of Baltic cooperation is not a matter of nowhere emptiness. And in the present situation, this scheme was based on Taavi Aas. Let me remind you, what's the situation now? Lithuania's airspace was closed throughout this crisis, the civil aviation airspace was closed. We have never closed the airspace, just lost the offer and the supply and demand are connected except, we remember, the Belavia company Tallinn-Minsk, as well as Tallinn-Frankfurt and, in fact, Tallinn-Helsinki, which was also interrupted in the meantime. But now there are two flights a day, two flights a day, just like Stockholm. It is, you see, a good job, right? In fact, Latvia decided that its scheduled flights were not allowed during the crisis; international transport had been interrupted. Now he has adopted an exception decision, there is a fundamental agreement between the three Baltic States: obviously, we allow intra-Baltic air traffic. All three Baltic states have now reached the level of joining their capitals and Frankfurt. At the request of Air Baltic, Estonia also has connections with Oslo and Rigagi allows exceptional flights to Oslo. And the Latvian Foreign Minister, who gives these permits in Latvia, I talked to him on Friday, said that Lithuania will also open the Oslo Community. And, in the case of the Baltic States, the Helsinki Community is expected to become more secure. And there was actually talk about other countries, we are trying to coordinate this. We have come from one quarantine room: those who come from outside Estonia will be quarantined. We actually have a question of the logic of internal transit. I'm sure it's a matter of its own. Tanel Kiik told me this morning that the health ministers agreed yesterday on a so-called 25-person gauge: if, over the last 14 days, the average number of people affected by 100,000 is less than 25, then the health ministers recommend opening the route. This parameter could be taken into account. And today, as far as I know, the economic ministers are also discussing this in order to take a common stance. I agree that he did not communicate well in the Estonian media. It sounded like we were talking about having some kind of obsession with rejecting certain flights. No, it's not. This cooperation was, in fact, a prerequisite for opening the Baltic space was the assumption that we opened the Baltic space on Thursday night against Friday. And all three countries, when people move freely back and forth, have an interest in us running at as much speed as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U147	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In 2018, a Eurobarometer survey was carried out, the results of which showed that the support for membership of the European Union is 74% in Estonia, but your development plan contains 79% instead. What is the difference? That's the first part of the question. And the other half also comes from the development plan. The impact of populism on the unity and solidarity of Western society is increasing in opposition to European value space. Can you name three main factors that have caused such an increase in populism?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U149	Now I don't know if the good questioner wants to know if this meter number is correct. Well, I suppose we've, in good faith, written down these meters the way they are. I suppose that this meter number will then be higher, to show that it should be higher, or that ambition is such, then more people would trust the European Union than the form of transnational cooperation. How can this be achieved? Estonia must contribute to a common policy of the European Union, in which case the people will trust the European Union more. I categorically think that we will not achieve this with slogans, people will not be excited by any propaganda. On the contrary, our European Union policy, our policy in the direction of the European Union, must be based on concepts that strengthen people's dialogue with the European Union as a phenomenon, rather than brittle. It has to respond to people's sense of justice, healthy ideas. I have stressed that the European Union's objective, the problems of the European Union, is sometimes approached superficially, in a simplified way. In this time of crisis, too, it is depicted as a wand, the centralisation of the European Union, is a phenomenon in itself. No, it's not like that. This is certainly not the solution to build trust either. That is the policy that must therefore be pursued now, the European Union must show capacity on the issues that societies expect, the nations are waiting for, and not to deal with issues that are not practically acute, necessary. But when it comes to this pressure on the European way of life, the Western, Atlantic way of life, it is an extremely serious source of tension. And that pressure is actually two-way. This is actually due, on the one hand, to the fact that people have concerns about their identity and their roots in Europe. Are we gonna stay as a people? Will the way of life that my parents and grandparents have considered right remain or not be preserved? It is, in fact, a very strong pressure that is fragile in a European way of life. This pressure is seen as a cultural-political phenomenon on a very large scale. Secondly, undoubtedly these are the pressures that, of course, seek to find solutions to the fact that the rule of law is to be fragile in European countries, rules based on the market economy and democracy. These are such different counter-pressures and effects. This so-called artificial desire to transform Europe's cultural values into a way of life has certainly produced strong counter-effects. Because what is Europe? We are actually talking about antiques, we are talking about a Christian spiritual heritage, and we are undoubtedly also talking about the spirituality of the Enlightenment and Renaissance, which will accompany us on this small peninsula, which has been the engine of the technological and cultural self-realization of all mankind over the centuries. This classic division of labor, which has been developed, this prosperity, on which modern civilization of mankind is based, has come from our spiritual sources, which we can proudly consider ourselves to be part of.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U150	Now we're in a situation where probably answering questions won't stop until 1:00. But here we have two proposals, one from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the other from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. It is proposed to extend today's sitting until the end of the speeches, but no longer than 2 p.m. And the time has come so far that I have to put it to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the EKRE Group to extend the current sitting until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 23 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of this proposal; no one is against it. Today's session was extended until the agenda item was exhausted, but no longer than 2 p.m. And let's get on with the questions. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U151	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary of State! This document, which describes the state of the security of the Euro-Atlantic, recognises that we are working to achieve joint exercises between the European Union and NATO. My short question is: is Estonia's current relatively cautious, not to say negative, position on the creation of the European army changing because of this objective?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U152	Thank you. No, no way. We certainly do not need such a copy, whether of plastic or metal, of NATO in the form of the European Union. The issues of digital security, cyber security, where the European Union and NATO as organisations have worked together, have been the least polychemical in themselves. And in practice, for example, the European Union also finances the strengthening of bridges and routes so that they are suitable for transiting tanks. We all understand what tanks are moving across the continent of Europe. These aren't abstract tanks, are they NATO tanks? With regard to this so-called defence dimension, which the European Union has also developed financially, we are sympathetic to that. But that is precisely the supporting dimension. Under no circumstances must there be an idea that there is a parallel army, run by generals, with parallel military plans and plans. Of course, it would be best if these organisations on the European continent would ever overlap in the future. Do we get there? That is the free will of these countries. But all the Member States of the European Union could be NATO Member States. Then it would take a completely different perspective. Maybe these exercises will take some tension off. But ex-states have their own very complex contexts due to the consequences of World War II and the internal political perceptions of each country. We talked about NATO's nature and defence concepts on the radio yesterday. The anti was there, Marko was there. The shipmaster asked him to refer to Joakim Helenius's article on whether there could ever be an Atlantic alliance. The anti said it might mean too much centralisation, but maybe in the future, there will be a common Atlantic Union. We see it or our descendants see it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U153	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Urmas! This development plan states that development cooperation, or development aid in rural languages, should increase from 0.16% of GDP today to 0.23% of GDP in 2023 and to 0.33% in 2030. In this light, we should actually have more than 2% of defence costs. And we have not been able to raise the R &amp; D expenditure to a further 1%, which is our goal. In this light, is this goal not too high? Is that reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U155	Well, the goals must be beautiful when you look at them on the horizon. The question is that these are approved rules in international cooperation, say, in the OECD. Rules at European Union level have been agreed as an objective. The right thing is that our country's current resource base for development cooperation has been unchanged over the years. I am thinking of the amount of its nominal amount in our budget. This is not because GDP has risen, in relation to GDP, as a ratio. If we ask whether it is a priority at this point in time when we are having a crisis, when we are talking about these choices made under limited resource conditions, I will undoubtedly see as a priority our foreign economic policy, our security-enhancing policy. I certainly do not consider it reasonable to interrupt development cooperation. That certainly allows for two things. First of all, it will certainly allow us to develop better cooperation with interested friends in our legitimate room. Running, routine development cooperation projects I just canceled. I canceled new applications, new projects. Very many of our partner countries turned to an extraordinary request for assistance specifically related to coronavir, and it seemed strange to me that we were providing development aid in a completely different area, but in fact the countries are asking for help to fend off the corona virus. Our chance is to give it either in the form of money or in the form of disinfectants. The main logic is that we want to support the production of Estonian entrepreneurs. Decks and infirmary equipment have also been requested. This was one of the decisions on existing development aid resources. These countries, by the way, are not ashamed of themselves. There's a strong logic to that. This development aid platform is used by countries as a 'door-opening logic' for their businesses. What is that logic? My logic is that we are not just giving development aid with the idea of handing out this so-called briefcase money somewhere across the world. But if, figuratively speaking, we give some country the opportunity to make some kind of digital platform, such as the e-health solution, within the framework of a development aid project, then Estonian entrepreneurs would do so. And once they've made this platform, there's a hope that in this exotic, distant country, there's a network that the state will support to get to the next projects. That's the point. But if you answer, is it right that the European Union and the OECD come with such targets in numbers, and if they are suddenly taken from the ceiling, they are not taken from the ceiling. These targets have sent us as long as we've been part of these organizations. And according to our strength, we have filled them financially.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U156	Thank you very much, Minister, no further questions. Next, I would like to ask the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Enn Eesmaa, for a co-report or for a presentation by the Commission, I think that the co-report will no longer be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U157	Thank you very much. Honourable listeners and viewers! We've been living for some time in a very different space than usual. It has shrunk on an individual level, become unusually local, closed the family circle rather than on the different levels of an enlarged society. Changes have taken place at the speed of the sprint without any planned preparation, and most importantly, no one has ever experienced such a situation before. Now mankind must act effectively and draw conclusions from what has been done in essence in a synchronised manner. I don't even want to guess what would have happened if we didn't live in the Internet and television age. So on a human level, we try to survive, go through, and take, as they say, the day at a time. As a society, this is neither meaningful nor possible. Life goes on even when it changes greatly. Processes that started in time before the pandemic need to be completed by making the necessary adjustments to the original plans in order to plan future activities as far as possible in anticipation of developments. The procedure for the Estonian foreign policy development plan 2030 was already started in the Committee on Foreign Affairs at the end of August. At the Commission's meeting at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we discussed a single document, similar to which has never been drawn up in Estonia, together with the Minister, Chancellor and their colleagues. To date, we have devoted time and focus to the development plan at least 15 sessions. The topics of the debate have been the foreign policy objectives of our country in communication with the US, Russia, China, the European Union and the Baltic States. We dealt in depth with the organisation of public services for Estonian citizens living abroad. At the departure session, we took stock of Estonian development cooperation and humanitarian aid practices and discussed further plans in the NGO Mondo premises of the organisation of development cooperation, humanitarian aid and world education. We have repeatedly discussed ways of strengthening our country's foreign economic policy. Of course, at our meetings we devoted our attention to the security of the country, the stability of international relations and sustainable development. We looked separately at the creation and development of opportunities for the involvement of Estonians living abroad. One aspect of this is certainly the creation of more efficient consular services. All of this and much more have served one of the main objectives: to develop a stronger External Action Service. In addition to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have involved representatives of several other ministries and agencies in order to get a more accurate and panoramic overview of what had been done and, more importantly, of the activities planned. In response to our request, opinions were sent to us from several committees of the Riigikogu and also from the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Service Economy. Here I take this opportunity to thank everyone who thought along with us and made proposals that some found a place or at least influenced the views of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which I am talking about at length now. At the beginning of the procedure of the action plan of the Government of the Republic pursuant to § 156 of the Law on the Home and Working Conditions of the Riigikogu, we decided that we would take sufficient time to discuss and process large material by chapter. According to a joint decision, that is what we did. Under the rules of procedure, the Commission does not make any corrections or additions to the texts proposed by the Government, but it does express its opinion and make proposals. At the meeting held on 7 May, we decided to send the development plan to the plenary session of the Riigikogu, and the chairman of the committee was appointed as rapporteur. I would stress that, after the debate in plenary, the Committee on Foreign Affairs will send its views, together with a description of the process, to the Government of the Republic, which will approve and adopt the development plan. Now the views of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the development plan. Above all, we want to congratulate the makers for preparing a broad-based Estonian foreign policy for the first time. At the same time, this was necessary but also difficult. The world around us often changes within a few weeks or months, goals and goals can be influenced by many factors within ten years. A small country like Estonia is vulnerable to global changes, but it is difficult to influence them even at UN level. At the same time, most of the ideas of the Constitution remain unchanged, which also form the basis for foreign policy objectives. It is certainly worth the effort of all of us to formulate them together, so we also consider the general objective of the development plan to be the increased desire and obligation to preserve the Estonian nation, language and culture throughout the ages. To achieve this, we must ensure the independence and independence of the Republic of Estonia, inter alia, in international relations. Foreign policy must also contribute to the growth of prosperity and the protection of the interests of Estonians abroad. As a country that is mostly integrated into international life, we need to increase our contribution to global sustainable development. Consensual foreign policy objectives should continue to be sought. We stress the link and coherence of the foreign policy development plan with the thematic strategies and recommend that they be dealt with in a coherent way. We consider it particularly important to involve the Riigikogu and to provide continuous input in the process of creating these strategies. First and foremost, we are thinking about Estonia's developing relations with specific regions and countries. We are learning about significant and rapid changes in the external environment, especially the consequences of the spread of the COVID-19 virus, which, moreover, have not yet been fully evident. Therefore, future developments affecting foreign policy areas must certainly be complemented. This should not prevent or hinder the development of our country. On the contrary, foreign policy should also be more ambitious. There is a favourable period for this. Estonia stands out at the level of the Baltic region and Nordic countries, as well as the European Union and even the world. The status of the UN Security Council's leading state obliges and adds opportunities to present Estonia's positions and to speak with a top-level voice. The implementation of the objectives of the development plan plays an important role in the enforcement of the currently pending External Action Service Act of the Riigikogu. The role of the Riigikogu requires effective reporting on the implementation of the development plan. We propose that an analytical review of the programmes be made once a year. And, of course, in our changing world, the development plan must be a so-called living document, which can and, if necessary, must be complemented by changes in external or even internal influences. With regard to the chapter on security, development cooperation and sustainable development, the Committee on Foreign Affairs stresses the importance of NATO and the European Union in ensuring the security of Estonia. Our country's foreign policy must continue to support the functioning of a rule-based international relations system. We consider it necessary to draw up strategies for the various regions and countries. This will allow for a more detailed approach to the design and achievement of the objectives. On its own level, the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs has been doing the same for some time. We share our concerns about the solidarity of the Member States of the European Union that are under pressure. The ability of society to resist the spread of misinformation must be enhanced. This can be achieved, inter alia, by raising awareness of society's foreign policy. We consider it necessary to maintain the state's defence costs at a level that would ensure that defence capabilities are guaranteed and increased, despite the global economic downturn. The contribution to development cooperation is expected to increase to 0.33% of gross national product by 2030. With a view to strengthening the external economy, we consider it appropriate to mobilise foreign resources in the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This would increase the efficiency and efficiency of the use of funds for external economic policy. We are in favour of a structural change under which EAS export advisors and economic diplomats from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are managed from the same ministry. We support the idea that the content, quality and not so much the number of contracts are essential for concluding double taxation agreements. Organisations involved in supporting entrepreneurship initiated by the state must be more effective in helping entrepreneurs to understand the characteristics of different markets. More open cooperation between different stakeholders, at least communication, would certainly help to promote external trade. Increasing public R &amp; D investment would certainly contribute to the promotion of the external economy. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considers it important that the development plan contains a separate chapter on the involvement of the Estonian community and the creation of more effective consular services abroad. This work should and could be linked as little as possible to political trends, as far as possible to support and increase the communication mechanism essential to Estonian communities, local media publications. The members of the Commission themselves have been able to see the need for this on a number of visits to countries where Estonians still live a great deal. For foreign young people in Estonia, our citizenship should be maintained as actively as possible. This task is also directly related to the desire and the need to increase the turnout of foreign Estonians. We have supported the view that the provision of the law allowing the delivery of identity documents by post will be implemented earlier than in 2022. Once again, we stress that the strong External Action Service is made up of people working there. In order to ensure their smoother operation, it is necessary to implement amendments to the External Action Service Act in the spirit of the legislator. The role of experts in the various fields must be increased in the External Action Service. The availability of e-representation services needs to be further developed and improved. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has always advocated the extension of the Estonian network of foreign representations according to opportunities and needs. We have given the Ministry a lot of thought in this regard because of our experience in working visits. The activities of existing embassies must be continuously analysed to optimise work. Finally, one of our main recommendations: the development plan should express more clearly the desire and will to raise the budget of the External Action Service. And once again, the Commission supports the foreign policy development plan prepared by the government. Two of our members were absent from the meeting on 14 May, a colleague, Anti Poolamets did not agree to support the development plan. However, he did not submit his own proposals and did not express specific protests on the text of the development plan or on the proposals of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I believe and hope that he will take advantage of today's opportunity to perform in front of this great hall. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U158	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. Now is the opportunity to open negotiations. The desire to participate in the negotiations has been demonstrated. First, there will be representatives of the political groups. Mr Ruben Kaalep on behalf of the EKRE Group! Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U159	Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! The emergency, which lasted more than two months, was over this weekend, but the world we're returning to is no longer where we came from. We will not return to this seemingly secure global supermarket, where the wealthy Western elite could consume the gadgets produced by Chinese and Indian slave workers behind the gates closed in their villas, peeking over the wall at the arrival of this promised, happy, mixed, multicultural paradise. The Corona virus has virtually declared the beginning of the end of the globalistic project. We are again faced with a world divided into the playground of imperialist great powers, where the only hope for the survival of small countries and peoples is the concentration of strong regional blocs. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the situation in which we will discuss Estonia's foreign policy development plan for the next decade. For a decade, which can very clearly and very directly determine the fate of Europe and the future of many nations, small and large. I am not going to spend time pointing out the shortcomings of this document, as other my fellow Members are certainly already doing, because the final power over the wording and additions of this text will be left in the hands of the Government of the Republic. However, I will bring out a few more important points. There is no reason to fear that the EKRE or the current government wants to change the main course of Estonian foreign policy. Estonia's foreign policy has always been on the right track, as long as the same general objective has been pursued, which is set out in this development plan: the preservation of Estonian nation, language and culture throughout the ages, the security of the independence and independence of the Republic of Estonia in international relations. This is a sacred purpose, which gives rise to everything that the representatives of the Estonian state, ambassadors, officials and diplomats go to the wider world to pursue. That is why our allies are all those who support the preservation of Estonian nation, language and culture, the freedom and independence of Estonia. That is why we support the noble principles of national rule and self-determination of peoples for all nations. One who does not respect others cannot respect his own nation, and he who does not regard his own nation as sacred cannot honor other nations. And that is why the globalist project, the idea of one and only global market, political system, ideology and identity, is inconsistency with the aims of Estonian foreign policy. It can be said that globalism is an enemy of our mortal enemy, not only of our indigenous cultures, freedom-loving peoples and tribes of all nation states. We have to ask ourselves whether all the countries and international organisations that we consider to be our allies represent the interests of their peoples or of the globalist project. Take, for example, our Western neighbour, Sweden, whose coronal health policy is a lame copy of his disastrous immigration policy. The governments of several Western European countries allow their own indigenous people to remain in a minority in peacetime conditions, first in the districts, then in the metropolitan areas and finally in the whole country. Can governments who do not care about the preservation of their own nationality, language, and culture through the ages care about others? Let's face the facts. Western European countries are involved in ethnic and religious conflicts caused by mass immigration. The United States has lost its role as a global hegemonist, with a perfectly understandable confrontation with the Chinese Communist regime, whose imperialist ambitions are equally a serious threat to the whole world. Russia is unpredictable in the corona crisis, and after that there are two areas in the context of the collapse of the economy, which will be cut last: internal security, on which the regime's survival depends, and an army that will continue to maintain the ability to intervene in neighbouring countries. A sick bear can be as dangerous as a whole bear. Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia's foreign policy needs a great vision. The position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is attached to the development plan, and the most important of these is that special attention must be paid to the Intermarium region between the Baltic Sea, the Black and the Adriatic Seas, with which Estonia has common interests and a common historical background. This is a fundamental point in Estonia's foreign policy strategy. The world situation requires us to combine all the regional forms of cooperation already in place, the Baltic cooperation plus the Visegrád group, the three-sea initiative plus the Eastern Partnership. We cannot limit ourselves to cooperation within the European Union. We must also remember Ukraine, which has fought bravely for its independence for many years and is an invaluable ally for us in the field of national defence. At the same time, it is also important to strengthen political cooperation within the bloc. We cannot remain spectators of the ideologically motivated attacks on Hungary and Poland by the European Commission, otherwise the next victim will be the Baltic States. The world has changed, but at the same time it has returned to its normal state. Regional cooperation is our chance to get away with getting caught by empires' gears again. Countries whose aim is to preserve European nations, languages and cultures throughout the ages must stick together. Our region is the future of Europe; it is the most viable and boldly-looking part of Europe. And I call on all the countries of Intermarium to strengthen their links, both politically and in the security field. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Estonian Parliament is among the first to stress the importance of this cooperation, and I believe that others will follow us soon. Being an Eastern European is no longer a word of entwinment; it is a matter of honor and pride. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U160	Anneli Ott, please, on behalf of the Central Party Group. There's an extra three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U161	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The words 'foreign policy' and 'development plan' in the media hardly attract much attention. In order for people to be interested in this formal and certainly very much needed document, the issues need to be clarified more widely and in a more human way. Simply put, foreign policy means transnational communication, which, however, has many different aspects. We can assume what we would have talked about here today if the corona virus hadn't shut the world down unexpectedly. How many priorities and perspectives have changed in this few months! I believe that we would certainly have talked about climate neutrality, energy security, international relations, clean technology and digital revolution. We would have discussed in various policies what we can do individually and as a country, in order to protect the nature of our planet and the development of the global economy through new environmentally friendly productions, while protecting the national interests of Estonia. The issue of foreign policy was not yet the subject of the corona crisis, which took place here in the Riigikogu Hall on 11 February this year, but already a month later, on 11 March, the World Health Organisation declared the spread of the WHO Corona virus to be a pandemic and there were more than a hundred infected people in more than a hundred countries. The emergency situation in Estonia began on 12 March and today we have reached a new reality, the real change of which we are only gradually beginning to discover. In two months, we have seen the need for good transnational cooperation and solidarity, which, in difficult situations, is reflected in mutual support. Our membership of the European Union and NATO is an important part of Estonia's foreign and security policy. Just recently, on 9 May, we celebrated Europe Day and, therefore, the 70th anniversary of the unique cooperation in world history. Estonia, too, has been able to contribute to the development of one of the world's strongest economies and security cooperation and participate in decision-making for 16 years because of skilled foreign policy and good citizens. Today, in the face of this whole crisis that has hit mankind, we understand better than ever how important common values and a united European Union that cares about its people are. The core values of the European Union are important to Estonia, including a functioning economy for everyone and the opportunities that result from it. Estonia's interests are best protected through international cooperation based on values and rules. When we come out of the corona crisis, we must not neglect the goals that we have set together in the past. As a model for Europe's new economic model and Planetary Preservation Plan, the European Commission has proposed a European Green Deal, a vision presented by the European Commission in December 2019 on how to mitigate climate change, make more efficient use of available resources, reverse biodiversity loss and make the economy greener. The objective of this agreement is to make the European Union fully carbon neutral by 2050, thereby demonstrating to the world that climate neutrality is not only beneficial for the environment but also economically profitable and important for security. The current crisis has also been linked to the high level of air pollution in metropolitan and industrial areas. The decisions on how we will continue to respond to the challenges of climate objectives will also have a role to play in preventing future crises. In order for countries to take shared responsibility for achieving the ambitious targets set, we must work together to ensure that the agreed rules are respected as honestly and effectively as possible. The role of clean air, food and water in world politics and security is increasing. Estonia has the opportunity to be a pioneer here with other Member States of the European Union and to contribute responsibly to achieving climate objectives. Good guys in the hall! Estonia can also serve as a guide in the digital field to make our daily editing less burdensome to nature. In just two months, we have taken a huge step forward and have experienced that, for example, cooperation between the Member States of the European Union will also work without meeting face to face. We learned that we do not always have to fly, that a huge number of kilometres can be missed, and the time available can be used to spend time with our family or for such a necessary vacation for our society. For example, people in South-East Estonia have been talking about the need to develop remote employment opportunities for years. Today, thanks to the capabilities already in place, Estonia can set an example for the whole world, but we must continue to take steps to increase opportunities in our regions as well. Real use of digital opportunities throughout Estonia can raise Estonia even more to the map of the world. It is important that we be able to analyse the impact of the crisis quickly and to apply new opportunities in foreign policy as well. We must consistently contribute to preparing for the next crises and, through a smart foreign policy, ensure that our businesses can trade. Estonia is open and vulnerable to global changes as a country dependent on exports. When the crisis broke out, the opinion was that social solidarity in the European Union was a myth. The European Union can only act in the areas for which the Member States have given their powers under the Treaty of Lisbon. The Member States have not supported the Community's competence to provide and ensure health services, which is why the European Union has been involved in the pandemic at times. What kind of Europe we want and what objectives should be for the future of the European Union will be discussed in December in the framework of the conference on the future of Europe. Good international relations, foreign policy design and cooperation are also part of the everyday life of Estonian people. I will finish with the well-known words of Jakob Hurda: if we do not grow up from the population, we must grow up from the spirit. I want a strong spirit and a lot of will for our diplomats, politicians and everyone else who stands up for Estonia's foreign policy! Thank you very much to all the compilers of the foreign policy development plan and the contributors to the process! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U162	Mr Kaljulaid, who has the authority to act on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U163	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I must come back to the statement made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs concerning information operations. Indeed, the Minister for Foreign Affairs referred to my article, which appeared on the National Broadcasting Portal, which contained the statement he referred to regarding the impertinence of these masks. When I wrote that down, I was based on a headline of the news. But I can tell you that the Minister's good colleague, Jaak Aab, contacted me and those four mistaken words were immediately removed from that article. It just got fixed. Once again, I apologise to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. However, I will say that my idea of what was in the first half of that sentence is still valid. But first, I would like to congratulate our Ministry of Foreign Affairs and everyone else who has contributed to the drafting of this strategy paper. When I read this, I thought that if one day this famous party of officials really stands for election, they might be sure of my vote. Our External Action Service is strong and we all appreciate their work. But in the case of the Government of the Republic presented to us, I doubt that this development plan was considered meaningful in the government. I have already quoted in the round of questions and answers page 7: 'An answer to European value space is increasing. The influence of populism on Western societies, unity and solidarity is increasing. Estonia's interests are best protected through international cooperation based on values and rules. " The influence of populism on Western societies, unity and solidarity is thus increasing. And it's growing. Unfortunately, I very much stress: unfortunately, the poison of extreme right-wing populism is also in the bloodstream of the Estonian Government. Well, that'll do a lot of our potential opponents' work. This work will be done by the Government of Jüri Ratas itself, weakening the value of democracy, the market economy, human rights and the rule of law in every way. Estonia will not be firmly protected until we set a border on the influence of populism, on our societies and our allies, on their unity and solidarity. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also touched the pressure on the way of life. I would point out to him that the way of life is a changing thing. Our ancestors were driving a lot of horse carriages, we're now using cars, some people even electric cars. Our ancestors listened to the radio, we have smartphones. Time changes the world, changes us, and we have to adapt to it. I consider it very important and welcome that the external policy agenda devotes so much attention to the external economy. This is one of the most important objectives of our foreign policy. Without strong exports, sustainable growth is impossible, but sustainable growth is essential for our people's incomes to increase, for the standard of living to rise. Even in the current crisis, we should actually make every effort to strengthen and invest in our external economy. This is a good time. But to do so, of course, the government and the Riigikogu must have the courage to make decisions during the crisis, which may not be so easy for voters to explain. At the same time, investments in the field of our external economy will certainly be worthwhile if we reach the beginning of a new period of economic growth and we have created better prerequisites for the growth of Estonian exports. The foreign policy development plan also formulates the general objectives of our foreign policy. As I pointed out in the round of questions and answers, I have one point in this regard, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, our growing contribution to global sustainable development, the growth of the welfare of Estonian people, the security of independence of the independence of the Republic of Estonia, these are absolutely right goals. The preservation of Estonian nation, language, culture throughout the ages is the result of our constitution, and this is the most important task of our country. To be honest, for that we are actually gathered here today. However, it is worth asking yourself whether our foreign policy is "national" or "national" foreign policy. Is it carried out only for the benefit of citizens of one nationality or for the benefit of all Estonian citizens? I would like to hope that, for example, in the future, the Rescue Board... May I ask for more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U164	It's okay. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U165	I would like to hope, for example, that in the future the Rescue Board will not come up with a mission, that only people of Estonian nationality will be rescued from future fires or, above all, people of Estonian nationality. Estonian citizens are made up of people of different nationalities. If our government and its foreign minister do not want to represent the interests of these people, which country and which foreign minister should they look towards in the future? I thank and congratulate once again our good Ministry of Foreign Affairs for this work, as well as their work and activities in helping our people home in recent months, be it at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' headquarters in Iceland Square or our offices around the world. And thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for listening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U166	Mr Mikhail Lotman on behalf of the Isamaa Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U167	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Just because I'm coughing doesn't mean I have a corona. I have asthma. So, we are discussing a document that could be called historic in Estonia's political life. If Estonia were Canada, foreign policy would not be so important to us. If Estonia were Andorra with its neighbours, foreign policy would not be so important either. But due to its geopolitical situation foreign policy is an existential matter for Estonia. Estonia has been like a nest of winds in history. And the first foreign policy and national task is to maintain, maintain and develop our independence. Some important principles that we read in this document and which I want to repeat. First, consistency. Renewed Estonia has been ruled by different governments. Our partners have had different governments. But Estonia's foreign policy directions, objectives, tasks are the same, they are constant. It does not matter who the President of the United States is, who is the President of France or the Chancellor of Germany, or what coalition we have in this power, foreign policy we have no room for manoeuvre. At the same time, foreign policy gives us very little room for manoeuvre. So, consistency. Second, transparency. Our choices must be clear to us and our partners. We can't afford any confusing views. There is also credibility in this regard. We are solid partners and we also hope for such determination from our partners. Go on, solidity. Estonia's foreign policy has been very solid. What does it mean to be respectful? In general, it may be something that I do not particularly like, it means some sort of balance on the basis of value and pragmatism. We cannot only rely on values. We cannot begin to criticise every country where human rights are violated or where there are other standards, democratic rule of law standards are not best protected. We cannot start every speech on China, talking about Uighurs and other problems in Tibet. It's pragmatism, maybe you don't like it. I don't like it much either, but these are our national interests. On the one hand, the value base and, on the other, pragmatism and between them, such a delicate balance. Our foreign policy objectives, as I said, are: the first is national independence; the second is a nation state. It's like there's been some controversy here, whether we have a country of citizens or a country of nationality. These things don't rule out each other. There are very different nationalities living in Estonia, and I am not Estonian either, but I am very strongly and resolutely in favour of Estonia being the nation state of Estonians, because there is no country anywhere else for Estonians. The Russians, the Jews, the Ukrainians have their own countries. The Estonian nation state means that the state has certain responsibilities in the Estonian, Estonian culture, Estonian language and so on. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U168	Three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U169	This does not mean that we must now discriminate against, for example, the Tatars. Absolutely not, but our country has no obligation to the language and culture of the Tatar. That's all I'm saying. But all human rights are guaranteed to everyone. So the nation state, but also the rule of law. And speaking of nationalism, I want to mark here the importance of a global Estonian, which is also stated in this document. They are not Estonian citizens. However, the fact that they are not Estonian citizens does not mean that the state of Estonia, as a nation state, has no obligations towards them. There are obligations. And now a word of resources. Estonian foreign policy is not just about making diplomats. Estonian foreign policy is the task of society as a whole. Estonian scientists, Estonian doctors, play a major role in Estonian foreign policy. A country like Estonia must be bigger than it is. He must be greater in science, he must be greater in his education, he must still be very successful in many areas. And Estonia is quite successful, but we all want more. The European Union, NATO and transatlantic relations are the constants of Estonian foreign policy. We can't talk about these, in my opinion, are the wrong alternatives to either global cooperation or regional cooperation. That's a lie. The European Union, at least in my ideal, is a Union of States, not a Union of States. It is a union of countries with a place for federations like Germany, but also nation states like France or Estonia or Poland and Hungary. The strength of the European Union is precisely in the diversity, in the difference. The monolith we are seeing in Russia is not the strength of the country, it is a weakness. If we wanted an absolutely monolithic European Union, it would be a weaker European Union than a union of states. I have a lot more things to say, but I can't do it. But I want to draw attention to one flaw in this document. I'll mark it a little bit: new challenges. There are only crises in one place and the need to respond to them. I think that we are entering a period of crisis and that we are facing it as a rather long-term reality. Responding to global crises should also be mentioned in this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U170	Anti-Semiamets, please! However, I am sorry, because things are so arranged that the representatives of the political groups will speak first, I would first give the floor to Marko Mihkelson, who will appear on behalf of the Group of the Reform Party. But we can hear all the speeches.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U171	Eight minutes, then.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U172	I'll take extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U173	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, The key to the success of Estonian foreign policy has been its continuity, its reliance on the principles of liberal democracy, the idea of a united Europe and strong alliances. The keywords of Estonian diplomacy have been balance and wisdom. In fact, Estonia's foreign policy has built a very decent and strong foundation throughout its entire generation, on which a long-term strategy of action is now taking place for the first time. We will look forward to this development plan for the next ten years. First of all, I want to improve the work of a good colleague, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Enn Eesmaa, in a roster, everything should be well factually factually based. In fact, the preparation of the foreign policy development plan did not start last autumn, but we have been working on this document for more than two years. The first discussions in the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs took place in the beginning of 2018. And it must be said that this is one of the best examples of how, in one area of policy that is very important to our republic, it is possible to create a strong common ground. And not only at Parliament level, but also in cooperation with Parliament and the government. When the drafting of this document started more than two years ago, Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs played a very important role as the first benchmark. I believe that the proposals that we make as a committee to the Government of the Republic together are 42 statements and proposals, all of which have been included in very carefully weighed discussions on the substance. I do not agree with those who, ladies and gentlemen, describe the current situation in the world as something very dramatic. Dramatic in the sense that the world to which we enter after the special situation in Estonia is fundamentally different. In fact, in this same development plan, I think there is a very good overview of what major trends have been in the world in recent years, or partly even in decades, and how crises, as is now the global pandemic, are affecting these trends, how something is accelerating, maybe slowing something down. However, there are no fundamental changes to the current pandemic and exit from it. At the same time, it is crucial that, even as a small country in Estonia, this development plan can be seen in the longer term when it is agreed at the moment, presenting a vision on which shorter-term tactical strategies can be built, including region-based strategies. Hopefully soon, the government will also start analysing the proposal of researchers from the University of Tartu so that we can focus on, for example, the preparation of an Asian strategy. At the same time, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already analysed regional cooperation formats, such as Nordic-Baltic cooperation and many other activities. In this respect, it is crucial that we do not stop thinking ahead of the development plan and, in fact, that we are working towards a shorter-term agenda, whether for a year or two. In its enjoyable style, Yuval Noah Harari, the most modern historians, has posed the greatest challenge of the coronal apandemia: whether we travel downhill to global isolation or vice versa, we choose the path of global solidarity. I quote: 'When we choose from the first, we not only prolong the current crisis, but also make it germinate into worse disasters for the future. If we choose another, it is not only a victory over the corona virus, but an insurance policy against all possible future epidemics and crises. " That's what Harari says. The principle of Estonia's foreign policy, which is unanimous, never again alone, will easily help to focus on today's choices. The success of Estonia, which is closely interlinked with the circulation of the rest of the world, depends on three factors. Firstly, we need to protect and strengthen the democratic regime. We can learn from the events of the late 30s when involvement with the current authoritarianism in Europe weakened Estonia's resilience in the global crisis. Secondly, at all times, Estonia must strive for the core of the free countries and convince its allies to rename full cooperation in Euro-Atlantic space instead of closing themselves in the America first style. Strengthening the Union of Free Democratic States, as the US Senator John McCain dreamed of in its time, would help all of us to better oppose China's attempts to shape the world more vigorously in our own image. And thirdly, we need to understand the great opportunity for Estonia to become the flagship of innovative solutions affecting future societies in the world that is currently learning to rely on digital channels, and to make decisive use of this possibility. All three areas that have been highlighted in the development plan are equally important to Estonia's foreign policy: ensuring security, promoting the external economy and protecting citizens. Citizens only recently felt how functional and quite comprehensive the Estonian consular network is and how well we can also help our citizens, with the help of our partners and allies, if necessary. As far as security is concerned, I believe that no one in this Chamber has any disagreements that are fundamental to our security and our defence. This is our own contribution to our defence with our allies, especially NATO. I think it is also crucial to stress that as a small country in Estonia, we cannot succeed in an open world unless we promote the external economy. The Commission has repeatedly referred to the government that the ambitions set out in the development plan's figures could be much higher. Why can't we fight ourselves closer to the Nordic countries in the world competition ranking by 2030 or be at least the top ten in the world in terms of ease of business, but why not the top five? I very much hope that the differences of opinion that were currently expressed in this Chamber will, however, lead to the final approval of this development plan by the government in the political parties belonging to the coalition. However, if there are any fundamental changes to Urmas, I will look at the end of Urmas, it is expected that before the government starts to approve them, they will come back to the Riigikogu Foreign Affairs Committee to introduce them. And finally. I join those who have already said that Estonia's foreign policy can only succeed if we have a strong External Action Service. I thank all our diplomats, those who have worked to strengthen Estonia's international position, but also those who are working today, for example, in the UN Security Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U174	Thank you. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U175	Dear Chairman, Honourable ambassadors! The main problem in the text of the current development plan and the reason why I voted against it in the Committee on Foreign Affairs is that it has not been possible to take into account the effects of the corona crisis. Now is the time to come to conclusions. Without this, the text of the development plan is incomplete and would soon need to be changed. Yesterday, I was able to see amendments from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which are already trying to take these changes into account. I'm glad the beginning is done. However, if you look at the text of the development plan in the order of the text, the first thing to see is the oddity: the problem of populism is described, which, as if, is rocking the stability and the ability to agree in the Western countries. But we know that today the word 'populism' has been transformed into the word 'conservative'. If we follow the U.S. press, we will see that Trump has been called a dangerous populist in countless ways, and so have Estonian politicians in our press. And then let's read a little bit more about the fact that we have to work particularly closely with the United States. In this development plan, I think there is too much room for development cooperation. I think that in a situation where we have more than 50,000 unemployed, we should review these issues. It is ethical to keep resources for our needy, not to pump them into third countries with which we have no historical connection. And we know that in all of the corrupt countries, much of the development aid goes to the left. Now, however, what is already well recorded in the development plan. It is part of NATO's foreign trade and the topic 'Estonians abroad'. NATO's role is so meaningful that it no longer resembles anything from the naivism period before the Ukrainian war when it was tried to outdo one another with the one who was more eager to support visa liberalisation with Russia. The development plan clearly states: Europe's security is influenced by Russia's growing foreign-political aggression, threats to and use of military force. And, of course, we are pleased that the importance of keeping defence costs at 2% has been stressed here. It is also good that the development plan sees the threat to European security posed by irregular migration. This is a real threat aggravated by the slow resolution of conflicts within international cooperation and the inefficient prevention of irregular migration. Good text! Both during the refugee crisis and during the corona crisis, the need for borders has emerged. The borders of the nation states function like watertight bulkheads that create security. Just before the crisis, we saw dramatic footage from the Turkish-Greece border, where Turkey assisted immigrants attacking Greek border facilities. These iconic images remind us that, in the absence of internal borders, the refugee crisis could repeat its European security with seriously shaky consequences. We are now seeing a very strong trend towards regionalisation and a significant weakening of the globalisation trend. It would now be very necessary to notice it and to unwrite it in the development plan. We saw that during the crisis, supply chains shifted... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U176	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U177	...stuffed. The availability of strategic goods was a matter of question. This situation must change both in Europe and in Estonia. I was present when a good colleague, Kaido Höökelson, traded a million protective masks out of Japan through his personal ties. During the bitterest shortage, it had a price of gold. And it is a lesson that we must also be able to cope with our forces during crises, especially in critical sectors. After all, we can see how we were able to start the production of masks, the disinfectants began to come from different manufacturers, even the Rakvere spirit factory was put to work on full tours. The Coronal Crisis has much to do with the vocabulary of wartime and competing medical supplies. And it is really time to learn that strategic industries must be protected. Countries will defend their markets and the US will increasingly withdraw from China, while the global ambitions of the country will grow under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party. Europe has started to protect its businesses from Chinese takeovers during the crisis. We too need to think that our forest and farmland would not easily slip into the hands of foreign purchasers during the economic crisis. We need to make a final decision on 5G and step on the same foot as our allies; we must not remain listening to the eloquences of PR companies on the payroll of the Chinese embassy. It is good to read in the development plan that we are standing up for the rights of indigenous peoples. We hope that the Estonian state will follow this noble principle more and more in reality. So let us help those nations who are in danger of disappearing because of imperialist pressure. We must raise our voices against discrimination against the Finno-Ugric peoples of Russia. We must not close our eyes to the Chinese repression against both the Uighurs and the Tibetans. The unrepresented Organisation of Nations, the great achievement of Linnart Mäll, needs a restart and the support of the Estonian state. Protecting the rights of indigenous peoples should not be left on paper; we must keep the fate of the oppressed small nations in light. We should take the lead in the legal issues arising from digitalisation and preserve the legacy of the great man of international law, Friedrich Martens. Let us take the lead in mapping grey zones in a digitalizing world! Today there are many topics, such as when cyber attacks against critical infrastructure in another country should be defined as an act of aggression. As much as nationalism would be demolished, the crisis will strengthen national thinking. And that's the natural course of action. We must strengthen the national approach and not go along with those who are trying to make the European Union more federal. Let us keep our constitutional values high, and let us not dilute them according to the wind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U178	Thank you. Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U179	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I was urged to come to this remote control by a speech by Reuben Kaalep, which was a very good speech, although there were many points that I do not necessarily agree with. However, there were some very serious allegations. For example, a statement on what should be a practical foreign policy. I agree with what Mr Kaalep said about the fact that the return of the ambitions of imperialist countries is a real threat in this post-corona crisis world. This is a threat to collective security and it is necessary to seek counterweights to that end. And then I was wondering what Foreign Minister Reuben Kaalep would do. What direction would he take if he were based on the ideas he said here? And he also said a very clear plan: it is a regional cooperation plan. Strong regional cooperation must be established. And by regional, he meant Eastern Europe, Eastern countries of the European Union and Eastern Partnership countries. But I'm just saying it's been tested. And it is very sad or very worrying to read in history that the same thing was tested in the 20th century. Its great leader and sole leader was Karl Robert Pusta, but nothing came out of this cooperation between Poland, Finland and the Baltic States that, by the way, would have meant anything to the countries. The same has been true of attempts to organise regional cooperation or cooperation between groups within the European Union. It didn't work out either. This is because there is always a question of procedures and of whose interests this regional cooperation is in. In order for such cooperation to take place, it must be clear to everyone, it must also be clear to Poland and Hungary why they share the same views with Estonia on one issue or another. However, if, for example, monetary issues were attempted to create such a regional alliance, either in the IMF or in the European Union, then it simply did not work out. For this reason, I am simply saying that one of the right principles of Estonian foreign policy is that there is a large form of regional cooperation, in which there are many shortcomings, and this is the European Union. It is, however, an incredible project in the world, which still works organisationally. This can be the form of our successful regional cooperation. Looking for another way out and trying to create some kind of illusion that we are creating some kind of alliance against Germany within the European Union, for example, doesn't work out well. It encouraged me to speak. But no doubt Ruuben Kaalepi had a lot in his mind of what I share. And there's one more thing I want to say when I'm here. The external policy development plan is a very serious, very good document. There is one subject that has been mentioned before, it is a strong External Action Service. Great, much more pay and training and all other things are needed, but in its time, the principle of the organisation of the External Action Service was that it must be closed. This means that the ambassadors will all change in one internal system. It has repeatedly been debated whether it is time for the External Action Service to be opened up to competition from outside. At the beginning of the foreign service, intelligent people, people with interesting thoughts, who became the foundations of the Estonian External Action Service, were able to compete there. Some of them did not succeed, but is it not time to return to the same policy? I'm asking for two more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U180	Please, I'll give you three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U181	To end my performance politely, I strongly suggest you reconsider this subject. Practice also shows that if there is only one system of such circulation at all times, it may not ultimately provide the best quality in the selection of staff. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U182	Thank you. And now there is an opportunity for a final speech by Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U183	Thank you, honourable Members, for this interesting feedback. I join the previous speaker: Reuben Kaalepi had an interesting speech. The three-sea initiative is important, including the fact that countries outside the European Union could actually be involved regionally. In fact, the President of Ukraine has also been asked to attend the three sea summits. These countries have a great deal of similarity, above all, in the fact that they are on the eastern wing of NATO. But certainly it is not meant in any way to replace the European Union's political cooperation format. He can't do that, and he can't go that way. It's not meant to be an alternative. However, this does not mean that this idea does not have any particular value, because this region really has potential. I agree with the positive evidence for the Eastern European countries that their average economic growth is above the European Union average. And there is also potential for Estonian businessmen, and they may have a much wider opportunity to access these markets in the future. This is more difficult in Western European countries with a very well-established market share. Anneli referred to Estonia as a digital guide, especially in this crisis environment. I'll sign it with two hands! Last week, we prepared a global declaration with Singapore's Foreign Minister in the digital field and a global video conference at government level in the same area. We also have some interesting ideas about digital development cooperation platforms that could be created. In this respect, we are moving very well forward, and this is definitely one of our brands. This is one of the few advantages in this crisis environment that we can highlight as the strength of our country in this confusion. I am also signing with two hands the emphasis in Mr Raimond's speech on supporting foreign economic policy. Mikhail pointed to values and interests in a small country. This controversy has still led us, from time to time it has also appeared in the columns of the Sirb. In my opinion, as far as I am concerned, the values and interests of a small country that stands for its birthright in this world must be overlapping. This is the real axis of our foreign policy; it does not have an alternative, according to my understanding. Our survival and self-esteem, not self-death, is actually the fact that values and interests are balanced and overlapping. It doesn't mean you always have to say everything you think, but you have to think about what you say. Mr Mihkelson was shown by a separate note: the Asian strategy, a very important issue. The logic of the Baltic-Nordic region has passed through the memorandum of cooperation, and I think we could operate in countries where we could benefit from practical benefits. I am thinking in particular of the countries that have emerged as the so-called centres of power of the world. I'll sign a hundred percent! They pointed out that, unfortunately, the development plan did not fully reflect the environment created by the corona. Of course, this paper on this table can't reflect it, but we've done the first raking. Our understanding of what happens to the world is limited, to put it mildly. We must certainly come back to this, either within this year's number or at the beginning of next year, and certainly to rake this development plan in this light. The development plan must not be a dead document, then no one will take him seriously, then he will be like Karl Marx's works in the closet. No, we have to have him designed so that he's our compass. But the compass really is only important when it is constantly viewed and placed in the environment in which the compass must show us the way. And I think the important thing was to remember Linnart Mäll. Maybe we should think about the Linnart Mäll award, which would be awarded to a champion of the rights of indigenous peoples. I think it could be practical to prove Linnart Mäll's life's work, his contribution, which he has made to instilling spirituality and self-esteem even further away from the Estonian border. I would also like to comment on the comments made by Mr Kallas. I think that came from one of the most important and practically the most political ideas that emerged from today's debate. We are not talking about this, and I think Siim Kallas did not mean that some party men are sitting somewhere in the seats of Estonian ambassadors. For example, Israel's new coalition agreement provides for the American Ambassador to be set up for two years and for the ambassadors of the most important Arab countries to be set up for two years. No, no, far from it! But I think it is really important to think about making better use of the know-how of people in different fields and filling certain ambassadors with open competitions. I'm totally open to it. While maintaining the right proportions, this certainly brings added value. I think we will think about this and then we will be happy to present this idea in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Foreign Service Act allows you to do so and so, the law is not really an obstacle. But this must be done in such a way that the precondition is also a consensus in Parliament that we do not in any way squander the existing thing, and we realise that there is some added value. So thank you for all your thoughts. Work continues.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-19_U184	Thank you. I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would like to thank all my honourable colleagues. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 1.58 p.m.
